I join my colleagues in congratulating the President on his election as President of the General Assembly for its fifty-fifth session and you, Madam Vice-President, on your election to your position. I am also delighted to welcome Tuvalu as the 189th Member of the United Nations. Australia has long-standing and very friendly relations with Tuvalu, and we have worked closely together as members of the South Pacific Forum and the Commonwealth. We are pleased that Tuvalu is now a Member of the United Nations, and look forward to new opportunities to work together for the United Nations common goals of peace and development. We meet today just after the largest number of heads of State and Government in history gathered for the Millennium Summit. While the Summit touched on the multitude of problems facing the world at the start of a new century, a theme common to many speeches was the need for the United Nations to reform so as to meet the challenges of the era: the challenges of securing peace, of fighting poverty and of empowering and liberating oppressed peoples. I want to respond to those calls for reform in my remarks to the Assembly today. Without continuing commitment to reform, the United Nations — like any organization — cannot expect to keep up with rapid change in the contemporary international environment. In the absence of change and adaptation, the Organization will wither as the nations of the world bypass it in favour of institutions and mechanisms that are more relevant to their needs. Australians believe that the most fundamental task of the Organization — and the very reason for its creation at the end of the Second World War — is the maintenance of international peace and security. In recent years we have seen the United Nations perform at both ends of the spectrum of relevance and effectiveness: at a low point in addressing problems in Kosovo and Rwanda, and at a high point in the resolution of the conflict in East Timor. I am a strong advocate of an active role for the United Nations in the restoration and preservation of international peace and security, especially in situations where there may be imminent danger of humanitarian catastrophe. Appropriate action by the United Nations in these circumstances does more than perhaps anything else to demonstrate the continuing relevance of the Organization to an often sceptical international public. Today I want to focus attention on four aspects of reform within the United Nations system: reform of the Security Council; electoral group reconfiguration; reform of peacekeeping; and reform of the human rights treaty committee system. It is our view that progress in each of these areas must be achieved to enable the United Nations to deliver results and ensure its relevance and effectiveness. Reform and expansion of the Security Council is driven by two fundamental, interrelated imperatives: the need to restore the representative nature of the Council by reconfiguring its composition to reflect the size and diversity of contemporary United Nations membership, and the need to enhance the Council's credibility, authority and legitimacy. The Australian Government's view has long been that expansion in both categories of membership is 26 needed to restore balance and equity to the composition of the Council. New permanent seats should be assumed by the under-represented developing regions of the world. New permanent seats should also be allocated to the major industrialized Powers best able to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. Equally importantly, other Members of the United Nations should be given the opportunity to contribute directly to the work of the Council through periodic participation as elected members. Expansion of the non-permanent membership would enhance the representative nature of the Council, enabling it to act genuinely on behalf of the whole membership. Australia has long voiced concerns about the veto and continues to argue that there must be limitations on its use. Of course, all permanent members of the Council, old and new, must remain accountable for their performance, and to this end any new arrangements for the Council should be reviewed after 10 or 15 years. Regrettably, discussion on Security Council reform has failed to reach agreement on a package of reforms in the six years since the Open-ended Working Group was established. The impasse is disappointing, and I hope that this session will give new impetus to the reform effort. It is clear from statements at the Millennium Summit, and during this debate, that there is strong support for reform. Renewed commitment and flexibility are needed from all sides. In the recent debate about United Nations reform, one key element has largely been missing. I refer to the United Nations electoral groups. The electoral groups were established to ensure that there was fair and equitable representation on United Nations bodies, so that all Members who wanted to make a contribution to United Nations decision-making would have an opportunity to do so. Now that three decades have passed since the formalization of the present groups, it is time that we focused on their relevance to present and future geopolitical realities. The current group system reflects the geopolitics of the 1960s. Since that time, more than 60 nations have joined the United Nations, leading to significant disparities between the size of groupings and an inadequate level of representation for some subregions. In addition, the original rationale for the configuration of the electoral groups has eroded, creating dissonance in the way many Member States organize themselves politically and electorally. The previous realignment of groups in 1963 was a long and difficult process, impelled by significant changes to the United Nations system after the entry of many newly independent States from Africa and Asia. I recognize that group reconfiguration is no easy matter, and accept that change now will be similarly complex. For that very reason, we should delay no longer in commencing a serious debate of these issues. While there are many possible configurations for revised electoral groupings, and many sensitivities around altering the status quo, the dramatic global changes since the current system came into force have created historical anomalies that cry out to be redressed. Australia looks forward to working with others to achieve that goal. As part of the Australian Government's commitment to a strong and relevant United Nations, we recently completed a review of the United Nations human rights committee system, with the objective of improving its effectiveness. The review proceeded from our Government's commitment to the international promotion and protection of human rights, and a firm belief that the United Nations has a central role to play. Australia has a proud human rights record, and we take our international rights and obligations seriously. We are party to both human rights Covenants and to the four conventions. Within Australia, which has a strong civil society, human rights are protected by a range of key civil and political mechanisms, including a strong democratic tradition, our Constitution, an independent judiciary, a free press and wide-ranging anti-discrimination legislation. Internationally, Australia is a strong proponent of the universal application of human rights standards and is committed to continued support for international human rights protection. We are concerned that the committees established to monitor international compliance with human rights treaties are beginning to lose credibility and effectiveness because of the way they operate. It is also important that the international protection system work efficiently and effectively so that democratic countries, such as Australia, which have a proud record of extending generous humanitarian assistance can continue to have the confidence and support of their 27 own domestic constituencies for such humanitarian protection. Australia's review found that the committees need to adopt a more consistent approach to their role and understand the pitfalls of simply accepting without analysis the submissions put before them by non- governmental organizations. It is important that adequate recognition be given to the role and views of Governments which are democratically elected and which take their treaty commitments and reporting obligations seriously. The committees also need to be more balanced and strategic about targeting key human rights offenders and avoid unfairly focusing their criticism on countries with good human rights records. For some years now Australia, together with a number of other countries, including Canada, New Zealand and Norway, has been advocating reform of the treaty committees. Most recently, the Australian Mission to the United Nations in Geneva hosted a meeting of about 20 countries to discuss treaty committee reform. The United Nations itself has also recognized the need for reform of the treaty committee system, and Australia has been fully supportive of these international reform efforts. Australia now intends to broaden such efforts by spearheading a high-level diplomatic initiative to garner broad support for reforms to improve the functioning of the committees and professionalize their operations. Reforms could include the provision of adequate resources to the human rights treaty committees, improvements in their working methods, standardized rules of procedure when considering States' reports and better consultation between the committees themselves to coordinate reporting timetables and to facilitate cooperative work on reform issues. But Australia does not have a monopoly on good ideas, and we want to work closely with United Nations officials and with like-minded countries to make the treaty committee system work more effectively for the good of all Member States and for the protection of human rights. We will therefore be talking widely with others to develop concrete proposals for reform. We will raise these issues in the General Assembly, at the Commission on Human Rights and in other appropriate meetings. We also think that the regular meetings of States parties to the six human rights treaties should discuss reform issues and provide guidance to the respective committees on their working methods. Australia wants to maximize the effectiveness of the treaty bodies. We will not shy away from our responsibilities, but will press for the reforms that are needed to make the system work well and achieve its objectives. If reform does not occur, the committee system will increasingly be ignored and made redundant. That would be a setback for the cause of human rights. I now turn to the matter of peacekeeping and the maintenance of international security. Australia has a long and honourable tradition as a participant in United Nations peacekeeping operations, most recently in East Timor, and I believe that the strength of our commitment is reflected in the recent appointment by the Secretary-General of Australian Major-General Tim Ford as his Military Adviser. The experience of the 1990s has clearly shown that the ability of the United Nations to meet an expanding and increasingly complex range of peacekeeping demands is under strain. The decade witnessed some important successes in peacekeeping, notably in East Timor, but also some smaller and frankly rather unheralded operations. It also saw some tragic failures, the costs of which were often measured in human lives. I commend the Secretary-General's commitment to blunt scrutiny and review of the United Nations performance, including the reports on Srebrenica and Rwanda. We particularly commend his initiative in convening the Brahimi Panel on United Nations Peace Operations. The Brahimi report (A/55/305) is a landmark document, setting out a blueprint for modernizing the United Nations peacekeeping and related functions. We must move expeditiously to consider its recommendations. Let me highlight briefly five points that, in Australia's view, are among the most significant lessons of recent experiences. First, military intervention must be used only as a last resort. All efforts must be made to find peaceful solutions. In this context, we welcome the Brahimi report's emphasis on preventive action and peace- building. Secondly, when the United Nations is deployed, there must be a peace to keep. There are real dangers in sending troops indefinitely into harm's way in the 28 absence of a clear peace plan and reasonable prospects of achieving it. Disputing parties must be committed to peace and must be held accountable for their actions. Thirdly, peace operations must have a mandate from the Security Council that is appropriate to the job they are being asked to do. If the environment is hostile, they must be appropriately equipped and able to project credible force. Fourthly, deployment must take place quickly once a decision is taken by the Security Council. Delays can lead to the further deterioration of a situation and can cost lives. The Brahimi report offers a number of useful ideas to speed deployment which merit careful consideration. Fifthly, United Nations peace operations must have a clear exit strategy. This is linked in particular to the clarity of Council mandates: as the Brahimi report rightly stresses, mandates must be clear, credible and achievable. It is also linked to the efficacy of accompanying peace processes and peace-building efforts. We welcome the attention given to these issues in the Brahimi report. We also support the point that the United Nations must be given the resources it needs to carry out the demands that we make of it. There is no question that the Department of Peacekeeping Operations needs to be strengthened and reformed. Ultimately, it is our responsibility, as Member States, to support a stronger and more effective United Nations peacekeeping capacity. This includes placing the financing of peacekeeping on a surer footing and paying our assessed contributions in full and on time. I cannot conclude without referring to the question of East Timor. When I addressed this Assembly one year ago East Timor was in the throes of the most appalling violence at the hands of a brutal and lawless militia. Since then important progress has been made in restoring security and building the foundations of an independent East Timor. Australia pays tribute to the men and women of the International Force in East Timor and of the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor for their commitment and, in too many cases, their sacrifice. East Timor faces a long and difficult path to peace and prosperity. Australia is playing a major role in the territory's reconstruction through the United Nations and other organizations, as well as bilaterally. We are committed for the long term to helping the East Timorese build their emerging nation not only for the benefit of the East Timorese, but in the interests of stability and security in our region. Regrettably, the pro-integration militia continue to pose a significant threat to security and stability. Intimidation and violence against Timorese refugees and humanitarian aid personnel in the camps on the East-West Timor border must be halted. The killing of workers of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) earlier this month deserves the world's strongest condemnation. Australia reiterates its call on Indonesia to fulfil its responsibility to provide effective security in West Timor, including by bringing to an end militia activity, bringing to justice those responsible for crimes, creating the necessary conditions for the return of UNHCR and resolving the refugee situation. We urge the Indonesian authorities to take all possible steps in this direction, including cooperating with the proposed Security Council mission. If the United Nations is to remain relevant and credible, it must work on its strengths and maintain a strong commitment to a continuing programme of reform and renewal. The challenges that face the Organization are formidable, but not insurmountable. The need for change is clear and urgent, but I believe that it is not beyond the ingenuity and good will of our generation to emulate our predecessors in grasping the reform nettle. At the Millennium Summit the world's leaders highlighted the need for the United Nations to meet the challenges of the new century. Let us heed their call, and work together with renewed determination and commitment to make this Organization moI am honoured to participate in this historic session on behalf of His Excellency Mr. Charles Ghankay Taylor, President of the Republic of Liberia. I am pleased to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. My delegation acknowledges the astute diplomatic skills and esteemed wisdom that you bring to this important assignment. We are therefore assured of a successful convocation, and assure you of the full cooperation of the Liberian delegation. I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the outgoing President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, my brother and colleague, for the very able manner in which he conducted the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. In the same vein, I commend our Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his vision, far- sightedness and the efficient manner in which he continues to carry out his mandate. This session has the challenge of determining how the international community will address the primary issues of peace and development. It has the task of assisting in preventing intra-State, inter-State and regional conflicts, as well as of ensuring that we pursue balanced and non-selective approaches to their solution. In addition, it must consider how to bring equity to the present international financial structure. Despite the much heralded dividends that globalization offers, developing countries are still beset by mounting debt burdens, unfair trade practices, declining official development assistance, poor health delivery systems and inadequate resource flows. An improved environment for global interaction, sensitive to the needs of developing countries, is a dire necessity that must not be ignored during our deliberations. The purposes and principles of the Charter have proved to be of durable value over the years. Today, as in the past, Liberia reaffirms its commitment to this instrument. The machinery that has evolved continues to be an indispensable framework for better international relations. But Member States cannot continue to support the United Nations in words only, and must avoid resorting to the expediency of exploiting it in the pursuit of narrow national aims that consistently discredit others. At the dawn of this millennium, the United Nations performance will be measured principally by its capability to sustain and protect the universal values of liberty, equity and solidarity, tolerance, non- violence, respect for nature and shared responsibility, as endorsed by the Millennium Summit a few weeks ago. Liberia intends to be a part of the process. 2 There are areas of the United Nations that need constant attention and improvement. Liberia and other Member States have spoken of the need to deal with some of the structural and institutional malaise that continues to undermine the Organization's effectiveness. As emphasized in my address to the Millennium Summit, we must, first, review the inequitable representation of the world's people reflected in the present structure of the Security Council; secondly, review the undemocratic processes of decision-making in the Security Council; and, thirdly, review the continuous violations, with apparent impunity, of the United Nations Charter by the big, the rich and the powerful. Indeed, when the Organization was constructed, five nations were entrusted with the responsibility of overseeing the entire world. The prevailing circumstances justified this dispensation, and Liberia, a signatory to the Charter, reasoned that the arrangement was acceptable. Time has unfolded new realities that make the arrangement of old unrealistic, unjustifiable and certainly unacceptable. There is a need to take into account existing political, economic and security realities. I need hardly say that one area of concern to Liberia is the use of the veto in the Security Council — a use that, on some occasions, has proved to be in conflict with the noble objectives of the Charter. Liberia is interested in peace, justice, development and economic progress for its people, and will not restrain its voice on issues that are vital to all nations and on which it should speak with an equally authoritative voice. Mindful that peace can translate into a sustained climate for development, Liberia has continued to work within the framework of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to make peace in our subregion a reality. In this regard, Liberia was privileged to assume the mandate given to President Charles Ghankay Taylor by his colleagues, heads of State of ECOWAS, in Abuja in May 2000. In keeping with consultations held among the Chairman of ECOWAS, the Chairman of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the President of Nigeria, and the President of the Gambia, hosted by the President of Liberia, in Monrovia on 26 July 2000, a new leader and interlocutor of the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) has been named by the RUF high command, through a letter to the Chairman of ECOWAS. Thus Corporal Foday Sankoh was removed from the peace process in Sierra Leone. Additionally, the new RUF leadership has indicated, in writing, its willingness to accept a ceasefire, to return to positions held at the signing of the Lomé Agreement on 7 July 1999, to accept the deployment of an ECOWAS contingent of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) into RUF positions and to proceed with the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes. Liberia, along with other ECOWAS member States, has also called upon the new RUF leadership to show good faith by returning all seized arms, ammunition and equipment to UNAMSIL. It has been reported that some armoured personnel carriers have been returned to UNAMSIL, but we must continue to insist on full restitution. Liberia wishes to take this opportunity to again condemn the taking of United Nations peacekeepers by the RUF, an act that challenged and undermined our concerted efforts to ensure collective security. Likewise, the recent attacks on United Nations personnel in East Timor and Macenta, Guinea, are unacceptable and warrant the collective actions of Member States of the United Nations to prevent any future attacks against United Nations personnel. We must send a clear and unambiguous message to all groups that the people of the world intend to adequately protect those individuals commissioned to carry out specific assignments for and on behalf of the United Nations, whether in the area of peacekeeping or in the discharge of other humanitarian services. The Government of Liberia has expressed its support for Security Council resolution 1306 (2000), which calls for an end to the smuggling of diamonds from Sierra Leone. As evidence of this, my Government has committed itself to undertaking several initiatives, including the enactment of a statute criminalizing the export of undocumented or uncertified diamonds; the enforcement of legislation requiring the Central Bank of Liberia to issue certificates of origin, in line with existing laws; and the development of a transparent process, with the assistance of experts from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. After the Liberian civil war our Government took several measures to consolidate peace and security in 3 our subregion, especially since many disgruntled former combatants sought refuge in neighbouring countries. The Government of Liberia voluntarily destroyed, with the assistance of ECOWAS and the United Nations, more than 21,000 small arms and more than 3 million rounds of ammunition. The Government of Liberia also signed the protocol to the ECOWAS small arms Moratorium. Despite these measures, and the current imposition of an unjust arms embargo against Liberia, armed insurgents from the neighbouring country of Guinea have attacked Liberia for the third time. The repeated violations of Liberia's territorial integrity by armed insurgents from the area of the Guinea-Sierra Leone borders have been reported to this Assembly and the Security Council, the OAU and ECOWAS. Though generally unacknowledged and not condemned, in April 1999 there was an incursion from Guinea, followed by another in August of the same year. A third and most recent attack emanating from the Republic of Guinea is ongoing and has resulted in the loss of lives and property and the displacement of a large number of our people. We are alarmed by the large quantities of new arms and ammunition being used by the insurgents coming from Guinea, and the implications for ongoing armed conflicts and potential hotbeds in our subregion. The repatriation of some 32,000 refugees to Liberia by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has been suspended as a result of the armed incursion. Indeed, Liberia is a stakeholder in the peace and security of the subregion, and especially in bringing the illegal arms trade in West Africa to an end. The inviolability of the borders between Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone remains a crucial issue. We call, once more, for a monitoring presence of the United Nations at these borders to monitor all crossing points capable of vehicular traffic. We recognize the enormous cost of policing the entire length of the borders and suggest the utilization of an airborne multi-spectral service to detect any unusual movements of any type along the entire border. Intelligence gathered therefrom could prove useful to the three countries and the international community at large. The cost of this service is reasonable and could be underwritten by the international community. The Government of Liberia wishes to bring to the attention of this Assembly the maltreatment of Liberian and Sierra Leonean refugees in Guinea, which was incited by a speech given by the President of Guinea, General Lansana Conté, on 9 September 2000, and confirmed by Human Rights Watch. The refugees have been arrested, beaten and some even raped. These actions are in violation of international conventions and we appeal to the international community to call upon the Guinean authorities to respect and to protect all refugees living within their territory. The attack on Guinea, while condemnable, is no excuse for such inhumane treatment meted out against innocent refugees. Liberia remains committed to the pursuit of peace and stability, both at home and in the subregion, and in so doing, will assiduously struggle for the socio- economic uplifting of its people and those of the subregion under the ECOWAS Treaty. In my intervention last year, I renewed my Government's request for the Security Council to lift the arms embargo imposed on Liberia eight years ago in 1992. I advanced reasons in support of this request, principal among which was the constitutional duty to defend the territorial boundaries of Liberia and to protect all individuals therein, and especially in light of the repeated armed incursions into Liberia by dissidents from Guinea. Again, in early July 2000 there was another incursion into Liberia from the same country by dissidents with the declared objective of overthrowing the duly elected Government of President Charles Ghankay Taylor. As I speak, there is an ongoing war between Government forces and the dissidents. Although our repeated requests for the lifting of the arms embargo have not received a favourable response from the Security Council, we again put this matter before that body for urgent consideration. The present security situation within Liberia and the West African subregion compels us to seek removal of these restrictions, so that the Government of Liberia can acquire the means to protect its citizens and others within the territorial confines of the country, as well as to maintain a stable environment. On the other hand, the continued existence of an arms embargo against Liberia in the midst of repeated armed aggression is a violation of our inherent right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. If the United 4 Nations fails to grant Liberia the right to defend itself, then the United Nations is obligated to provide for the security and defence of Liberia. The persistent attacks on Liberia, we believe, are precipitated and encouraged by the knowledge that dissident forces have of the existence of the United Nations arms embargo on Liberia, which leaves Liberia vulnerable to such callous and unwarranted attacks on its nation and people by dissidents outside of the country. The Security Council arms embargo has not only undermined and compromised Liberia's capacity for self-defence, but it has further deprived our universities from obtaining needed laboratory chemicals, deprived our industries from acquiring essential explosives for mining and rock quarries. Hence, the arms embargo continues to have a disruptive impact on our educational system and our economy as well. In this post-conflict environment, there is the urgent need to build confidence and enhance the capacity of government institutions, such as health, education and agriculture-related agencies and security apparatus, which are vital to meeting the basic needs of Liberians, including ex-combatants. Pledges were made toward the achievement of this objective in Paris in December 1997. However, little aid has trickled in to further the reconstruction programmes of our Government. Despite the assurances from the international community that the road to international assistance was a successful disarmament process followed by the holding of free and fair elections, the international donor community has continued to pursue a policy of punitive disengagement. Pursuant to this policy, essentially, all known avenues for obtaining assistance are laden with impractical conditionalities, which are difficult to meet even by countries that have not experienced civil war. We wish to note that this exclusionary attitude approximates the imposition of economic sanctions on Liberia and its people. However, whatever justification we may rationalize, there is a population of Liberia that has suffered the scourge of seven years of civil war: vulnerable children, women and the elderly, who deserve humane assistance irrespective of any political imperatives; people who care less for the politics of the machination of power brokers who arrogate unto themselves the right to determine what is acceptable behaviour in the international political system. I might add that Liberians are not automatons. As a sovereign people, we claim the incontestable right to exercise the leading role in determining our destiny, especially the right of ownership of our development programmes. We are an integral part of the human family, pulsating with needs and aspirations that are good and honourable. We too desire to reap the benefits of the people-centred development underlined in the Millennium Declaration. At this precarious period of our national life, Liberians have shown uncommon resilience and are relentlessly striving to rebuild their lives. What we seek from the international community is its empathy and human understanding in providing the requisite assistance that will enable Liberians to enjoy the basic human rights of food, security and peace. Importantly, we wish similar benefits for our neighbours and others beyond the West African subregion. Following the successful celebration of the Millennium Summit, which reinforced our collective determination for the improvement of the management of the United Nations in the twenty-first century, it would seem morally incongruent that the 23 million people of Taiwan are being denied the right to participate in a United Nations. General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI) denies the Taiwanese people the right to participate in United Nations activities and contravenes the United Nations Charter's principle of universality. How can such injustice suffice in this era of increased global interaction, economic interdependence, political transformation, democratization and rapprochement? With the undeniable record of the Republic of China, its experience in democracy as proven by the recent election of President Chen Shui-bian, its respect for human rights, its economic power resulting from its acceptance of the market economy; the energy, imagination and courage of its people; technological achievements and humanitarian attributes all over the world, who would query its overarching relevance? Liberia fervently reiterates its call for the inclusion of the Republic of China in this world Organization. We believe that the Republic of China 5 can make important contributions that would serve the best interests of the United Nations community. The world has witnessed a significant achievement in science and technology, leading to rapid industrialization and the improvement of the standard of living of humankind. Although the gains in science and technology have led to the development of new medicines and other scientific knowledge, it has equally posed a threat to the environment and human survival. Rapid industrialization and scientific discoveries are dangerously impacting the environment. Unless we modify our activities, the sweet stories of scientific achievement will sadly lead to tragedy and doom. In this new millennium we cannot ignore the potency of threats posed by environmental degradation to our survival. Saving the planet is a precursor to the continued existence of its 6 billion inhabitants. This is why my delegation supports the efforts of the Commission on Sustainable Development, and endorses the Commission's recommendation to convene a General Assembly summit-level review, preferably in a developing country in 2002, to reassess the decision reached on Agenda 21 at the Rio Conference in 1992. Among the many impediments to social and economic development in Africa are poverty, poor health delivery systems, intra-regional wars and civil conflicts. It is a known fact that there is a correlation between war, civil conflict and the spread of HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDS pandemic targets and destroys our human resource, which is the basis for our socio-economic development. United Nations records show that the prevalence of HIV/AIDS increases in countries affected by war and civil conflicts, owing to population movements. Therefore, we should not ignore the fact that post-conflict countries need special attention to fight the disease. Throughout Africa, HIV/AIDS accounts for the increase in the death rate among young people and adults between ages 10 and 24, and 25 and 45 respectively. We appeal to the relevant United Nations agencies and other partners in the HIV/AIDS programmes to help Liberia obtain the $6.5 million needed to prevent and control the spread of HIV/AIDS. Meanwhile, in reference to the Inter-Agency Standing Committee working group established by the Security Council in January this year to examine the relationship between war and civil strife and the spread of HIV/AIDS, I would like to state my delegation's endorsement of the targets set for reductions in new infections, and applaud the measures taken thus far to provide care, support and access to information and medication for HIV/AIDS victims. Hence, my delegation commends the United Nations for its assistance to countries significantly affected by this dreadful epidemic. Apart from HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and polio contribute immensely to the obliteration of socio- economic gains in countries where they are widespread. Cognizant of the impediments that these infectious diseases pose to our socio-economic development, Nigeria has offered to host an African Summit on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases in the year 2001. Meanwhile, we commend President Olusegun Obasanjo for hosting the African Summit on “Roll Back Malaria” in April this year. We in Liberia have not relented in our efforts to reduce, if not eliminate, these health scourges that continue to threaten our social and economic development. Hence, the Liberian Government in cooperation with the World Health Organization has, as a result of a vigorous campaign, successfully contained polio, which killed and immobilized thousands of our citizens in past years. The polio vaccination campaign targeted 900,000 people, and the number of people vaccinated was 911,423. I am pleased to report that, if I am allowed to borrow and paraphrase the main slogan from this successful campaign: we are determined to “Kick polio out of Liberia”. Liberia continues to be saddled by the debt burden. This debt overhang, which remains a major contributor to the gap between the rich and poor nations, was acquired out of loans given in the pursuit of influence in the cold war, which, as I stated in my address to the Millennium Summit, was not in the interest of the borrower. As a result of the debt burden, our children are deprived of food, education, health care, and jobs for their parents. While we commend countries that have taken steps to relieve poorer countries of their debt burden, I 6 emphasize that unless all rich creditor nations adopt measures to erase this burden, it will continue to be oppressive, and an impediment to sustainable development for poor countries. Liberia rejects the proclaimed efficacy of the highly indebted poor countries initiative, and calls upon the G7/G8 countries to consider a comprehensive debt waiver programme for all highly indebted poor countries. In January this year, the meeting on poverty reduction and growth held in Libreville, Gabon, highlighted the situation in post-conflict countries that the Copenhagen Conference failed to address. In this regard, Liberia has proposed the holding of a regional summit of post-conflict African States to develop a realistic approach to debt eradication, and calls on the international community to support this important venture. As I conclude, I cannot help but wonder what this new Millennium has in store for the people of the world. Nationalism remains an unchallenged reality today, despite the wave of globalization engulfing our world. Also, the politics of power and “might makes right” still pervade in inter-State relations, especially among the powerful. Will the powerful break down the zeal of nationalism under the cover of their demand for good governance, democracy, transparency and human rights? We have indeed seen with what double standards and ulterior motives these demands have been made. Or, will the lofty tenets of the Charter be upheld in equally recognizing and respecting the right of self- determination of the small and the big, the poor and the affluent, in a world rich in cultural diversity deserving of coexistence in peace and universal harmony? Will this millennium see the end of cultural hegemony and arrogance, primitive sentiments undeserving of this new age of enlightenment and technology? Only the test of consistency between our moral value system and our actions will stand witness to posterity.  At the outset, I would like to join those who preceded me in congratulating you on your appointment as President of this last General Assembly of the twentieth century. Peru is pleased that a representative of Finland, a country everyone knows is committed to the objectives of the Organization, is steering the work of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that, under your leadership we will achieve the mandates that are necessary to begin to pursue the vision developed by our Heads of State and Government at the recent Millennium Summit. I should also like to welcome and congratulate Tuvalu for its incorporation into the United Nations. This will undoubtedly represent an important contribution to the different spheres of work of the Organization. The Millennium Summit has revealed the enormous challenges that lie ahead and the overwhelming need to forge a new form of international order that will allow future generations to enjoy a world free from the threats of war, poverty, injustice and environmental deterioration and, at the same time, one built on freedom with the participation of each of the great cultures that are part of mankind, without preference or prejudice. It is extremely important that when we are about to conclude not just a century but also a millennium on 31 December, we stop for a moment along the way to reflect on the future of international relations. Peru is certainly not a decisive country in the development of global relations. Nevertheless it would seem that one of the characteristics that appear at the end of the twentieth century and that will certainly be emphasized in the twenty-first century is the basic role that all countries of the world, whether large or small, have to play in shaping the international order. And, in this sense, the perspective of a country, such as Peru that fully shares Western civilization and yet at the same has its own characteristics that are the legacy of ancient times, may be of interest in carrying out the healthy exercise of approaching the subject from a different angles. 24 Peru emphatically reiterates that the global order that must shape the conduct of the different international actors within the century beginning on l January, must be based on the essential principles of the Charter which, contrary to certain beliefs that we believe to be mistaken, have not only not lost relevance, but are increasingly important for peaceful coexistence, collective security and also for a real possibility for the development of all the specific groups that form part of the abstract element that we call mankind. May I emphasize, in particular, the rights that refer to the sovereignty of States, to non-intervention in their domestic affairs and to the legal equality between States. These basic principles, which were incorporated in the Charter in San Francisco, have allowed the development of effective mechanisms of self-control and the stabilization of the international system. That is why we must renew our commitment to these rules of international public law, restoring the functionality that is theirs. Only thus can we ensure that the democratic values that prevail in contemporary society will apply and be enforced within an international system whose emerging features appear to seek new forms of exclusion. The world today is not the same as the world of 50 years ago. Change and globalization are constantly reshaping reality at a rapid rate and are attempting to impose upon us a new sense of commonality, new morals and a new political ethic that dogmatically and in a partisan manner define what is proper and improper. Full respect for the international legal order therefore acquires enormous significance since it is the only element that can illuminate the common path, reducing arbitrariness and subjectivity. This is also the best way and the most effective mechanism for the full protection of human rights and human freedom, which are undoubtedly requirements that no member of the international community may evade. But this new reality also imposes on us a need for commitment to the principle of shared responsibility. The profound interdependence posed by globalization also assumes a collective determination by all the members of the United Nations community to combine their efforts and resources for the resolution of problems that have systemic effects or effects of an international nature. I refer in particular to the achievement of lasting economic growth within the developing countries; poverty elimination; confronting the real threats to peace of an international scope; public health problems and endemic illnesses that are mainly linked to poverty; finding sufficient financing for development; the digital divide; migration and the free movement of labour; environmental protection and conservation; the world drug problem, beyond a purely military perspective; the scourge of terrorism and the various forms of international crime, including money laundering, arms trafficking and international trafficking in people. It is highly important for Peru that each of these common problems be tackled within the framework of the United Nations and that common, coherent and comprehensive answers be found. We must be capable of finding effective solutions with sufficient political and financial support. In this context, let me express our particular satisfaction over the commitments made by the heads of State and Government to focus the international community's attention in the coming years on poverty reduction, so that by the year 2015 nearly 600 million people will have overcome their state of chronic poverty. Similarly, I wish to emphasize the imaginative and constructive proposal presented by the President of Peru, Mr. Alberto Fujimori, at the Millennium Summit, to use the money illegally earned by captured drug traffickers to alleviate the foreign debt of the poorest countries and, in general, to utilize those funds to contribute to the fight against poverty in the world. There are undoubtedly many and very difficult challenges that we must face during the next century. This is the time of wealth and technological development, but also the time of struggle against poverty. This is the time of globalization, but also the time of the respectful recognition of cultural diversity, which is an asset as important as, or more important than, biological diversity. This is the time of the greatest use of natural resources by man, but also the time of environmental conservation. This is the time of the universal spread of democracy, but also the time of democratic respect for the different ways in which democracy is lived. Mankind has reached some basic consensuses at this stage of its development. All the peoples of the world share certain values and certain goals, such as freedom, democracy, equality before the law, respect 25 for human rights, the need to eliminate poverty, the development of creativity and the need for man to always surpass itself. This has been the contribution of modernity, the contribution of the latest centuries consolidated in the twentieth century. But it is also true that humanity is not made up, fortunately, of a single culture. It is also true that these values should find concrete forms of their realization through different mentalities, in different latitudes, at different periods in the history of each people. That is why post-modernity, that world of the next century, must know how to conserve and deepen the values that are the legacy of modernity and carry forward its goals as much as possible. But it must also acknowledge diversity; it must know how to resolve dynamically the dilemma between unity and multiplicity. Perhaps the most complex of all these challenges, the most difficult of all the coincidentiae oppositorum that the twenty-first century will demand is to build an international system based on a genuine democracy. And by this I mean a democracy that does not consist of imposing a political form in the image of and similar to a specific system that is promoted as a model, a democracy that is not built on the basis of a mere check-list of institutions that have been taken from a specific democratic experience and turned into mandatory universal guidelines. Democracy is the practice of diversity and tolerance. It is a recognition that with regard to each subject, including the idea of democracy itself, there can be different interpretations, and none of them is entitled to ban the others. The task that awaits us, then, during the next century is to spread and promote democracy but, above all, to further examine its own meaning to avoid contradictions which would lead to its destruction. How can we spread democracy without endangering democracy itself? On the other hand, how do we save diversity and particularity without ending up with outdated nationalism? These are the major problems of our time. They are the major dilemmas that will have to be resolved in the twenty-first century. Any idea of a crusade, even in the name of democracy, is undemocratic, because it is intolerant. And I would almost dare to say that any principle of social organization that seeks to impose itself universally has an undemocratic base. Thus, paradoxically, the missionary enthusiasm for democracy ends up affecting the nature of democracy itself. Democracy, in fact, implies a delicate and fragile balance between the universal and the singular. Singularity should not be sacrificed on the deified altar of universality. Singularity should not be dissolved within a claimed universality, and the singular should even less be confused with the universal, assigning an absolute value to what is no more than the historic expression of a culture and of a time. The attempts to apply on an international scale domestic policies and local interpretations of values have always failed. In the second half of the twentieth century, we witnessed the spectacular collapse of Soviet communism, which claimed to be the political doctrine of the future, with which, following Hegel, we would see the end of politics and therefore of history and enter into a sort of rebuilt earthly paradise. The claimed communist universality saw the birth within itself of particularities and differences. Afterwards it had to face other doctrines and world visions that were alien to its principles and values; and contrary to what communism expected, those different perspectives did not vanish when faced with the presumed Marxist truth. Rather, they won the ideological battle and made communism and Soviet Russia disappear. I am convinced that the same will happen with any doctrine, whatever its perspective and the values that support it, that claims to lead the world to the end of history. This forces us to rethink certain ideas that are too hastily — and, to my mind, inconsistently — becoming commonplace. There is a certain scorn towards the idea of sovereignty and towards the idea of the cultural identity of peoples, under the pretext of building a universal society. Nevertheless, I believe that, even though they will need to be transformed and adapted to a new globalizing outlook, those ideas will continue to prevail in the world of the future if we favour a genuinely democratic way of thinking, in which freedom can also exist under cultural and ideological differences. There is no doubt that there is a crisis in the nation-State, because the seemingly essential identification between the State as the political and juridical organization of society and the nation as a cultural organization is false: multinational States do exist. The solution in these cases of disparity between the political and cultural organization is not to abandon the concept of State and sovereignty, letting them be absorbed within one of the supranational, globalizing constructs; rather, it lies in achieving within the State 26 an acknowledgement and complex integration of multiculturality. It is necessary to articulate diversity at both the State and international levels instead of imposing some sort of homogeneity that will always feel like a strait-jacket. The new international order cannot be built by a single nation, culture or ideology, but by the interaction of the different attitudes that make up humanity. From a genuinely democratic and liberal point of view, we must avoid the temptation of the new dogmatism, perversely subtle and with a powerful imperialist vocation: the myth of “political correctness”. In this regard, building a new international order for the twenty-first century does not mean solving a mathematical equation or scientifically designing a model to be applied generically to all the countries of the world in a vain attempt to create a universal international society. Reality sweeps away all abstractions with the wealth of its multiple points of view. Moreover, reality is always dynamic and effervescent. It is always in a permanent state of transformation, thanks to freedom, the defining element of the human being. Therefore, politics, whether domestic or international, is an art, not a science. A domestic or international order must be the result of a complex interaction between different, and even opposing, elements, just like a work of art. Creating the work of art that will be the new international order implies not destroying what is counter to it, but, rather, combining it; combining unity with diversity and freedom with order. To put it in Nietzschean terms, we have to unite the Apollonian with the Dionysian. To build a purely Apollonian society is to fall into a new form of dogmatism and cultural dictatorship, even though, paradoxically, the intention is to establish democracy. Building a purely Dionysian society means slipping into chaos and therefore destroying the social contract. The society of the future must be capable of living with diversity and expressing different points of view, world visions and interpretations of democracy itself in order to establish an organization of humankind that creates not a single and homogenous international society, but an embodiment of the wealth of social and cultural diversity in search of peaceful coexistence and reciprocal cooperation without burdens or conditions.I should like first of all, on my own behalf and that of the Algerian delegation, to convey to Mr. Holkeri heartfelt congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I wish him every success in discharging his noble duties. The choice of Mr. Holkeri as President is a tribute to his personal qualities and to the experience of his country, Finland, with which we enjoy a firm friendship. I should also like to take this opportunity to convey to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, our deep appreciation and gratitude for the great effort he made during his presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. Finally, I should like to salute the spirit of initiative and commitment shown by our Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, the head of the Secretariat, and commend his sincere and tireless work to reform the Organization and to give it a new dynamism so as to prepare it to meet the challenge of the enormous changes in international relations. I should also like to welcome the State of Tuvalu as a new Member of our Organization. Just a few days ago, the United Nations hosted a political event that was without precedent since the Organization was created: the Millennium Summit. Because of a host of fast-paced developments that occurred in international relations, we, the peoples of the United Nations, must take time at this juncture of history to organize a dialogue to discuss the shape of the new emerging world order and the effects on us, the peoples, the States and the United Nations, the repository of our collective hopes and aspirations. The world has changed in a very short time from a system with clearly defined parameters to a system where political and economic reference points are sorely lacking. It is a system defined by nebulous phenomena, which evolve according to rules set by forces that refuse, in the name of globalization, to accept any form of guidance or collective democratic oversight. It is no surprise that globalization is increasing the suspicions and fears of the developing countries vis-à-vis the evolving new world order. The current state of international relations, marked by injustice and imbalance, will inevitably get worse because of the unbridled process of globalization. It is because of this that the Millennium Summit forcefully proclaimed the need to reinvigorate the United Nations and to galvanize its role, since it is the 18 refuge of the weak and the marginalized. The massive presence of the leaders of the whole world at the Summit was irrefutable proof of the commitment of the peoples and nations of the world to the United Nations and to the principles and purposes it embodies. The United Nations is the only forum built on the ideals and reference points shared by mankind as a whole, marked by universality and globality in its missions and prerogatives. Certainly the United Nations is facing today new challenges caused by rapid, profound and sometimes surprising changes in international affairs. No one denies the fact that it needs to be radically reformed in order to prepare it and adapt it effectively to meet current and future challenges and to manage and redress the contradictions of international relations. Security Council reform and expansion of its membership are urgent matters, because this important body clearly lacks the necessary representativity to give legitimacy and efficiency to its decisions and actions. Likewise, consolidation of democracy and international relations, if it is to be truly meaningful, must involve the enhancement of the General Assembly and the establishment of its role as the principal source of international law, as well as oversight over the three principal organs, in keeping with the United Nations Charter. Accordingly, marginalization of the Assembly, when it comes to major questions such as the maintenance of international peace and security, does not in any way allow the overwhelming majority of nations to contribute to the decision-making process in international affairs. Opening the United Nations to the outside world is a necessity dictated by changes in the international community and the demands of our times. By involving civil society in its work, the United Nations will benefit from the considerable contribution that non- governmental partners can provide in meeting the needs of countries in matters of development, particularly in the areas of education, health and housing. But this partnership cannot be at the expense of the purposes and principles of the United Nations, nor the independence of its decisions. It is in the context of this vision that we state our position on humanitarian intervention. For us it is a question not of whether or not it is acceptable to intervene in humanitarian disasters, but, rather, of legal and political parameters that should govern any decision on this matter. We therefore demand that terms of reference be clearly and precisely established, that they should be democratically adopted in a context of transparency and that they should effectively reflect the will of the community of nations. They must be based on principles of solidarity and justice, ruling out any forms of selectivity, special treatment or double standards. Experience has shown that the international community has found in the United Nations a framework that allows for considerable progress to be made with regard to security and cooperation. In the area of disarmament, for example, thanks to the available frameworks for negotiation and dialogue, the Organization has been able to realize considerable achievements, such as the signing of many conventions on weapons of mass destruction and the success of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), presided over by Algeria. The United Nations has also provided a framework to coordinate international efforts to deal with new dangers that pose a threat to international peace and security, such as terrorism, organized crime, and drug and arms trafficking. On the subject of terrorism, the international community has embarked on a process of implementing its strategy to combat this scourge and to prevent it. The United Nations and regional groups have adopted legal instruments that supplement international laws dealing with anti- terrorist actions. We hope that these achievements will be enhanced by the adoption of a comprehensive international convention, to be considered a political, legal and moral international covenant, to combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Algeria is keen that its relations within its political and geographical spheres be governed by a vision of the future that goes beyond short-term interactions or ephemeral motives. In our policy towards the peoples and countries with which we have relations of neighbourliness, geography and common heritage, we want to consolidate the principle of dialogue and consultation and develop cooperation and solidarity in keeping with the demands of good neighbourliness, common destiny, mutual interest, mutual trust and non-interference in the internal affairs of States. 19 Regarding the Arab Maghreb region, Algeria's commitment to build a unified, stable and prosperous Maghreb is based on our conviction that Maghreb unity is a strategic option dictated by the aspirations of the peoples of the region and by the current international situation, which encourages integration and the formation of blocs. Algeria is prepared today to work with its Maghreb partners to reactivate the process on the basis of an objective thorough analysis of common Maghreb action according to a rigorous and pragmatic methodology that seeks to maximize the complementarities of the countries of the region and that ensures gradual integration, taking into account the principles of equity and balance of interests. It is on the basis of this vision that Algeria has spared no effort to help find a just and lasting solution to the problem of Western Sahara. Algeria's support for the United Nations settlement plan is based on our commitment to preserve the security and stability of the region, without, however, rejecting the principle of the right of peoples to self-determination. The settlement plan, which was supported by both sides — Morocco and the POLISARIO Front — and by the international community, remains the practical, realistic option that will guarantee a just and lasting solution to this issue. Today the settlement plan is at a delicate stage, and the international community, which has already made a considerable effort to implement it, must give it even more attention and more support. Thanks to the efforts of the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy, Mr. James Baker, and the cooperation of both sides, the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) has resolved the difficulties that for so long prevented implementation of the plan. Today, there is no reason to delay or to block the referendum process. My country is convinced of the interdependence of the interests of the States and peoples on both shores of the Mediterranean Sea. We therefore reaffirm our commitment to the Euro-Mediterranean process, which provides a promising framework for the promotion of dialogue and consultation among the countries of the region and opens up great prospects for understanding, intercultural exchange and improvement of partnership for the benefit of all peoples. The Middle East region has seen some developments this year that have had an important impact on the peace process. The question of Palestine, which is at the heart of the Arab-Israeli conflict, is at a delicate stage. That means that the international community must mobilize even further in order to move the peace talks forward. Algeria reiterates its support for the Palestinian people and salutes their struggle for recovering their legitimate rights, including the right to establish their own independent State with Al-Quds as its capital. Algeria would also like to reaffirm its support for the fraternal Syrian people and its right to recover the occupied Golan. We express our profound satisfaction and pride at Lebanon's regaining its sovereignty over all its territory. Algeria once again reaffirms the need to lift the embargo that has hit the fraternal Iraqi people so hard. We also call for a final lifting of the sanctions that continue to penalize the fraternal peoples of Libya and the Sudan. Africa is undergoing profound changes that are opening up new vistas for the peoples and countries of that continent. Those changes have been brought about by the serious and determined will of Africans to free themselves from the burdens of the past and by their aspiration to join in the process of change that is sweeping our world today. Democracy is gaining ground daily as the mode of governance for the vast majority of societies in Africa. The State of law and respect for human rights are becoming embedded in African societies. That tendency is strikingly reflected in the historic decision by the 1999 Organization of African Unity (OAU) Assembly of Heads of State and Government no longer to recognize any anti- constitutional changes. That was a promising sign for the establishment of a democratic culture in Africa. At the economic level, African countries have wasted no time in joining the world trend towards a market economy and in creating the necessary conditions to promote free trade and investment. With regard to the conflicts that have devastated the continent and continue to cause humanitarian disasters and to tarnish Africa's prestige, the continent's leaders are now using preventive diplomacy and their own skills in mediating and settling conflict. Along the same lines, the OAU's Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution is being reinforced as the authority of reference to provide a framework for dialogue and conflict 20 prevention. As a result of those efforts, we see signs of easing in various conflicts in some parts of Africa. Through its chairmanship of the OAU last year, my country made great efforts to resolve some of those conflicts and to limit their scale. Algeria's efforts were successful in the case of the conflict between two neighbours, Ethiopia and Eritrea, where the Algiers Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities doused the fire of that destructive war between two fraternal peoples. The Agreement now offers real prospects for a just and lasting settlement of the border dispute between the two countries. Algeria has also stepped up its initiatives to end the conflict in the sisterly nation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In coordination and consultation with the countries of the region concerned and with the United Nations, President Abdelaziz Bouteflika has intensified his efforts with the parties, urging them to find a peaceful and negotiated solution in order to spare the peoples of that country any further suffering and preserve its unity and territorial integrity. Today, more than a year since the Lusaka Agreement, we can only view with regret the reversals that have taken place in the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Those setbacks have led to a deferment by the United Nations of the deployment of its peacekeeping mission. UNITA's continued defiance of the international community in Angola and its failure to comply with the commitments it made in the peace process continue to inflict the disastrous consequences of an endless war on the people of Angola. While reaffirming UNITA's responsibility for the ongoing war in that country, we note with satisfaction the new effectiveness of sanctions on that rebel group. We reiterate the need for complete compliance by any means necessary to make the rebel elements comply with international law and honour their commitments under the Lusaka Agreement. The solidarity expressed by the international community for the efforts of the leaders of Sierra Leone to restore peace and security must be accompanied by a tough attitude towards the criminal elements guilty of murder and despicable acts against civilians. Those acts have not spared even members of the United Nations Mission. While we reaffirm the fundamental role of the United Nations and the Security Council in the maintenance of international peace and security, we continue to stress the need for the Security Council to demonstrate the same effectiveness and speed of action with regard to conflicts in Africa as it does in connection with conflicts in other regions of the world. In that regard, I would like to express our desire that the General Assembly give the necessary attention and in-depth consideration to the Brahimi report's recommendations on peacekeeping operations, and that it implement those recommendations so as to make the United Nations more effective in this essential area of maintaining international peace and security. The contrasts that exist in today's world can be seen very clearly in the economic and social situation of the world. Humanity has never before achieved such a level of technological development. That development now makes it possible to meet basic human needs economically, socially and culturally. However, some segments of humanity continue to suffer the most abject forms of poverty and destitution. The Secretary-General's report to the Millennium Summit contains a clear formulation of those contradictions, which do us no credit as a civilized society that aspires to preserve human dignity and to protect the rights of those whose rights have been wrested from them. Mr. Kofi Annan also recognized in his report that the benefits of globalization remain limited to a small group of people. That fact reinforces our conviction of the need to accelerate the restructuring of international relations and our insistence on the need for a serious and comprehensive dialogue between the North and the South to find solutions for the imbalances that exist in the international financial and trade systems. It is time to tackle international economic relations from the standpoint of humankind's needs and dignity rather than from the standpoint of market forces alone, because experience has proved that such forces do not accord the necessary importance to social issues. If there is one area in which we must translate into reality the values of solidarity upon which the United Nations was founded and the interdependence which marks international relations, it is that of combating poverty, ignorance and epidemics. Effective and unified tackling of the problem of sustainable development in the third world necessarily entails settling the problem of debt, reviving cooperation for development, promoting investments 21 and opening up the markets of the North to the products and commodities of the South. We are meeting today for the last session of the General Assembly in our century, which has been marked by many events, a century in which the horror of destructive wars was mingled with the joy of peace and détente, a century marked by a struggle between hope and resignation, where it became evident that people are at once capable of the most abject acts and the most useful kinds of actions. We leave behind a century and usher in another, hopeful that humankind will learn from the past and will demonstrate the necessary determination to avoid making the same mistakes, for which we have paid such a high price.The current political debate is taking place against the background that is not quite usual. This Hall just heard statements by the participants in the Millennium Summit. Unprecedented round tables have just been conducted. The last several days have brought unusual hectic activity to the United Nations and the city that hosts the headquarters of our Organization. The most spectacular thing, however, is that the Summit has triggered an intellectual burst, an explosion of collective thinking. Apparently, this has been predetermined by a special quality of this particular moment in time, as we find ourselves at the threshold not just of a new century, but of a new millennium. Our acquisitive mind tries to look forward as far as possible and aspires to see there, against all odds, a better future. Such is the predominant human trait to look forward with optimism. Our past experience, however, warns us against excessive euphoria and illusions. We realize that the world is still full of threats, and our common impulse is to understand these threats and their causes and to find ways to overcome them collectively. This is what I felt during the days I spent at the Summit. I am probably not the only one who thinks the same way. But let us hope that the intellectual tide generated by the Summit will not just die down in the humdrum of everyday life, but will force us to get down to business in order to make our planet a safe and prosperous place. As we approach the new millennium, we surely want to take a fresh look at the road we have travelled so far. At the threshold of a new century, we are in a position to say that our most important achievement is that the world has become freer. I believe that the key word explaining the substance of the changes that are taking place today should be the word renewal. By our definition, it means an absolutely new era of relations between nations, free of the vestiges of the past: pressure and diktat. It should be a triumph of the principle of genuine democracy and justice when all States have equal rights and obligations, irrespective of their economic and political differences. The renewal of international relations should be guided by the understanding that we live now in a global and interdependent world whose overriding principle is global partnership. The United Nations Secretary-General has rightly proclaimed a three- pronged task: freedom from fear, freedom from want and saving the human environment, precisely in the context of globalization. It is also true that globalization should not overshadow the problems and concerns of the ordinary man. Our efforts will be futile if we do not address the issues we face today in this logical sequence. Let me dwell on the three main components of our common goal: making the world a safe, free and prosperous place. While recognizing that global security and stability increasingly depend on economic, environmental and humanitarian aspects of development, we should not belittle the importance of the military and political dimension of security. A fundamental issue of the elimination of weapons of mass destruction continues to be a matter of our common concern. International instruments in this field, first of all the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty and the Chemical Weapons Convention have not yet gained universal support and, thus, cannot be fully effective. The situation with regard to the Anti- 12 Ballistic Missile Treaty is also a cause for concern. We call on all countries to radically change this state of affairs and to support the Secretary-General's proposal to hold an international conference to find ways to avert the nuclear threat. Kazakhstan, having been the epicentre of cold- war nuclear confrontation and having resolutely resisted the temptation to turn into a nuclear power after it gained independence, has every right to raise this issue with vigour. As for Kazakhstan, it continues to contribute to efforts to ensure global security. Fully respecting its obligations under the above-mentioned international instruments, Kazakhstan has been consistently promoting its initiatives with regard to the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures in Asia (CICA) and the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in Central Asia. We are convinced that the CICA initiative has a rational kernel, and we call on the United Nations and the Asian States to continue their support of the CICA process in the interests of Asian and global security. We should be no less and, probably, more concerned by new threats: international terrorism, extremism, illegal trafficking in arms and drugs, and organized crime. Our newly independent State has come into direct contact with these threats. We are seriously alarmed by the situation in Central Asia and view the conflict in Afghanistan, the bandit groups' infiltrations in Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, and the situation in Chechnya in Russia as links in one and the same chain. Members have heard our neighbours - Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan - talking here about the same thing. I want to emphasize again that the way we see it, the root of the evil is the prolonged war in Afghanistan, and we urge the Security Council to seriously address the problem in that country on a long-term basis. Without addressing it, it would be naÔve to hope for the elimination of the threat to stability in our region and, thus, in the whole world. At the same time, we believe that the key to the solution of the Afghan problem is in the economic revival of Afghanistan. Our common experience points to the futility of palliative measures and attempts to bring the conflicting sides to the negotiation table without a clear economic plan. There should be a comprehensive plan for the economic rehabilitation of Afghanistan which, together with economic measures, should incorporate the fight against the production of drugs, illegal arms trade, terrorism and extremism, and should take into account the specificity of the ethnic and religious situation in Afghanistan. Of course, adequate financial resources should bolster this comprehensive approach. The price of peace and human life is worth it. I would like now to look at the threat to the stability in our region through the prism of the Caspian Sea. The Caspian treasure-trove has turned now into the centre of attention. The interests of many States, not just of our region, converge there. The recent discovery in Kazakhstan's part of the Caspian Sea of the Kashagan oilfield, which is the largest one in the last 30 years, with forecasted reserves of 7 billion tonnes of high-quality oil, confirms once again that the potential of the Caspian Sea is enormous. It is our genuine desire and intention to see that this gift of God serves the interests of peace and prosperity. Globalization involves a new level of interaction and interdependence of States. However, along with the obvious benefits, globalization entails the danger of a lopsided distribution of these benefits, both at the inter- State and intra-State levels. A widening gap between developed and developing countries is a burning issue. In fact, this gap is getting bigger, and debates are underway as to the forms of involvement of both groups of countries in the processes of globalization, particularly from the point of view of the solution of the problems facing the developing countries. The situation with regard to the future of the World Trade Organization (WTO) provides a good example of the differences in appraising the globalization phenomenon. This organization, uniting some 140 States, has become a trade and economic counterpart of the United Nations. It should be said, however, that the WTO has to be thoroughly reformed in order to really liberalize and democratize trade relations. It should not be a controlling and selectively discriminating body of world trade policy. The Bretton Woods institutions also have to be reformed. We believe that the most important goals in reforming them are to ensure their openness and democratization, competence and adequacy and to improve cooperation with the United Nations. We share the criticism of the International Monetary Fund regarding its arm-twisting policy when loans are 13 conditioned on many political factors that have nothing to do with the actual economic situation. In the context of the role of the Bretton Woods institutions in the world, I would like to mention the issue of the integration into the world economy of the economies in transition. The role and importance of this group of countries, which includes my own, in the world economy and politics will grow. I stress that it is important for Kazakhstan to continue constructive cooperation with the agencies of the United Nations family, as well as with the Bretton Woods institutions and other international organizations, in promoting economic reforms in my country. Kazakhstan continues to give priority attention to the development of the transit transport system in the States of Central Asia and in neighbouring developing countries. We think it is important to actively pursue the improvement of existing programmes and the development of new ones designed to raise the efficiency of the present transit system in Central Asia. Our landlocked country, and the region as a whole, should have secure multiple access to the world market. This is a matter of strengthening our sovereignty and independence. Environmental issues particularly the management of transboundary water resources, environmental pollution and the greenhouse effect long ago moved from the social and economic plane to the political one, and have acquired truly global significance. All countries face the problems of protecting the environment. Yet the effect on the environment experienced by developing countries and economies in transition is immeasurably much greater. Economic growth has increased the pressure on all the natural resources of our planet. The problem of lack of natural resources and their depletion creates serious economic problems and poverty. Economic development cannot stop. However, it should follow a different path. It should cease to destroy the environment so aggressively. It is because of the underestimation of environmental factors that Kazakhstan today faces such ecological disasters as those involving the Aral and Caspian Seas and the former Semipalatinsk testing ground. There have been many cases in history of nations and States being in conflict over the lack of drinking water and water for irrigation. Thousands and thousands of people have often had to pull up their roots because of problems with water. Reducing the number of people without access to safe water is as vital today as ever. Kazakhstan calls for every country to adopt, under bilateral and multilateral treaties, legislative and administrative measures with regard to transboundary water resources and their management. The United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific have devised a joint Special Programme for the Economies of Central Asia (SPECA), which encompasses all priority issues facing the region: development of the transit transport capacity and multiple pipeline systems; the management of energy and water resources; environmental protection; and technological growth. Such a comprehensive approach promotes better regional cooperation in Central Asia and the integration of its considerable potential into the world economy. It serves common interests. We therefore urge the international donor community to actively contribute to the SPECA programmes and to promote the economic and democratic growth of Kazakhstan and other newly independent States in Central Asia. The three-pronged goal of global development, which I mentioned at the beginning of my statement, would be unattainable without an effective common tool. Such a took we see in the United Nations, and we are convinced that there is no alternative to our Organization. But the next century and the new, highly complex tasks we face will demand a radically renewed Organization free from the stereotypes of the past. This matter is in our hands. We should support the genuine desire of the Secretary-General to drastically revamp our Organization. We believe that it is important to start from the head that is, the Security Council. The debates on that subject have gone on far too long. Shall we continue to mark time, or shall we take a responsible collective decision? We stand for the expansion of the Security Council, in both categories of membership, on the basis of equitable geographic representation and respect for the sovereign equality of all United Nations Member States. Kazakhstan supports the inclusion of Germany and Japan, as well as major developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, as permanent members of the Security Council, and also supports an increase in the number of non-permanent members. 14 We believe that the peacemaking capacity of the United Nations should also be strengthened considerably, and we support the conclusions of the report (A/55/305) by the Brahimi Panel. As for Kazakhstan, it is forming peacekeeping forces through its participation in the Central Asian battalion, composed of three States of Central Asia, and through the creation of its own Kazakhstan battalion. There is no doubt that the financial capacity of the United Nations should be commensurate with the new tasks that the Organization is asked to perform. All Member States should meet their financial obligations under the United Nations Charter. In spite of its temporary economic difficulties, Kazakhstan is striving to do just that and is taking practical steps in that direction. As to the scale of assessments and its methodology, we have always believed, and continue to believe, that the main criterion should be a country's real capacity to pay. We have set ambitious tasks for ourselves. Are we up to them? I am absolutely sure that we are, if we join our efforts. In fact, there is no other way. Such is the imperative of a new era, such are the aspirations of our nations. I thank the Assembly for its attention and wish it success in its endeavour to build a safer and better world in the next century.Exactly one week ago, the Millennium Summit was held in this very Hall, in which more than 150 leaders, heads of State and Government took an active and interactive part. This Summit, which my delegation wishes to salute once again, has played a great service in bringing together so many eminent personalities to truly take stock of the state of the world through a stark re-reading of the mission of and the basic strategic objectives assigned to the United Nations. What more can be said? How can it be better said? The conclusions arrived at by our leaders, which go to the very substance of the diverse and changing problems that undermine humanity, frame the items inscribed on the agenda of the fifty-fifth session. They also give us the opportunity to strike while the iron is hot and to embark immediately on their implementation where it is possible. In that context, the general debate in progress is a real challenge; a challenge to stay the course, but also a challenge to our ability to get down to basics. 34 But before I go on, I wish to convey to the President, on behalf of my delegation, heartfelt warm congratulations on his election to the presidency of our Assembly. This election is a well-deserved tribute to him and his country, Finland, with which Burkina Faso enjoys an excellent relationship of friendship and cooperation. My country is a Bureau member and we wish to assure the Bureau of our full willingness to cooperate with it. Our congratulations also go to His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, on the effectiveness of his guidance of the previous session of the General Assembly. I also wish to renew Burkina Faso's appreciation and support for the work of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who guides the work of our world Organization with courage, lucidity and determination. The waning millennium will no doubt forever be etched in the memory of humankind. Unfortunately, it will be etched in blood, as during it we witnessed, as virtually powerless bystanders, the rise of slavery, colonization and racial discrimination; the escalation of the most atrocious kinds of war; the ongoing degradation of the environment; and the deterioration of the terms of trade. But it will also be etched in gold, for we witnessed prodigious scientific and technological progress and economic and industrial growth, even though the structure for sharing their fruits was slow moving and unfair. No continent more than Africa, no people more than Africans, bear more heavily today the stigma of the scourges they have suffered, which will for ever mark them, or of their sharing but little if anything of the benefits of progress. My delegation therefore believes that we should embrace that history together and in a spirit of solidarity, agree to be the living and collective memory of it and learn its lessons so that we may strengthen our capacity to solve with greater efficiency and equity the problems of security, peace, development and a better quality of life that make up the core of our priorities. Whether that involves resolving the smouldering or open conflicts that continue to decimate our populations and to force them to flee by the thousands into exile, or whether it entails looking for lasting solutions to the problems of underdevelopment, the unbearable debt burden, the AIDS pandemic, malaria or natural and environmental disasters, we must, whatever the cost continually go back to our sources and history. I therefore make a solemn appeal to the conscience of the peoples of the United Nations to prevent hegemony and domination from being the hallmark of our Organization during the third millennium. That would be a betrayal of this history, and make our collective memory a selective memory. As the Assembly is aware, despite the progress made during the second millennium, there still remain questions and concerns among developing countries, particularly those in Africa. Their questions and concerns are not caused solely by the acceleration and unprecedented worsening of their continued impoverishment. Unfortunately, they also stem from the fact that today, at the dawn of the twenty-first century, international relations continue to be based essentially on force. That sad fact is made worse because, with the end of the cold war, we are passively and almost with a resigned attitude witnessing a single mind-set developing. As most heads of State and Government have said from this rostrum, the time has come to undertake the necessary reforms at the national, regional and international levels to build a more just, equitable, unified and fraternal world. Let us hope that the basic challenge, I would even call it heroism, of the new millennium will be to move forward together in solidarity, calmly and democratically towards globalization while we remain ourselves that is, retain our intrinsic values and our dignity as free individuals. With regard to the United Nations, we are convinced that making it more democratic is absolutely necessary. That democratization must include a thorough reform of the decision-making processes of the system, and of the Security Council in particular, and should go hand in hand with giving greater attention to development issues, particularly through a more thorough examination of the idea of a development council, as proposed by the Millennium Summit. It also means making the Organization truly universal. In this regard, Burkina Faso welcomes the admission of Tuvalu as the 189th Member State. We also think it is unfair to continue to marginalize the Republic of China, a country that meets all the requirements of a sovereign State to take its place in the United Nations. 35 Throughout its history, and particularly since the 1990s, Burkina Faso, learning from its own experience experience grounded in a culture of dialogue and negotiation has based its contribution on the quest for solutions to national and subregional conflicts on the basis of dialogue and agreement. We have done so because we are convinced that dialogue and agreement which are certainly not the weapons of the weak are the only way to reach lasting peace. We are therefore very surprised and disappointed that for some time now my country has been forced to confront accusations and all sorts of completely baseless recriminations. Is this the result of a deliberate desire to harm, or simply of misunderstanding? It is wrong and unfair that in efforts to find lasting solutions to conflicts one should yield to the easy temptation of accusation, recrimination, condemnation and exclusion. Burkina Faso has never hesitated to demonstrate its good faith, to show its willingness to cooperate with the United Nations and the international community, or to express its desire for transparency. That is why we set up an inter-ministerial committee on Angola and Sierra Leone to follow up and monitor implementation of the sanctions decreed by the Security Council. We also invited the Council to undertake any investigations in Burkina Faso that it deemed necessary to find the truth. Two United Nations delegations therefore recently visited the country. Their leaders stated that they had accomplished their missions freely and peacefully. Similarly, in the face of the recent surprising, to put it mildly, allegations by Guinea, we would like to reassure that beloved, fraternal country, as well as the international community, that Burkina Faso had no part, directly or indirectly, in those unfortunate events. We repeat our readiness to welcome or support any initiative that could shed light on this matter, which we find profoundly distressing. At the national level, Burkina Faso is resolutely continuing to consolidate and anchor the democratic process begun in 1990. That process is essentially characterized by the regular and systematic holding of elections at the municipal, legislative and presidential levels, in objective, transparent and fair conditions recognized by the international community; the strengthening of public freedoms and the promotion of human rights; public financing of political parties, unions and an independent press; recognition of official status for the opposition; reform of the judicial system to allow it to play its full role in consolidating and regulating the rule of law; and strengthening decentralization and local governance. Turning to the economy, our Government is concentrating on a truly unified type of development. Its priorities are poverty eradication, environmental protection, food self-sufficiency, and education and health for all. We welcome the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, which seeks to reduce the debt of poor, highly indebted countries, and the election of our country to that body, which strengthens our anti- poverty strategy. At the African level, Burkina Faso has consistently worked to strengthen good-neighbourly relations and to promote subregional and regional integration as well as peace and security. That is why we are committed to the institutional stability and the strengthening of the subregional cooperation or integration organizations of which we are a member, in particular the West African Economic and Monetary Union, the Economic Community of West African States and the Economic Community of Sahel-Saharan States. We hope that the latter will be accorded the status of observer at the United Nations. For that reason we have spared no effort to help create the African Union, which the African peoples so fervently desired. These are the main ideas that Burkina Faso wanted to share with the international community and which attest to our unswerving commitment to the ideals of the United Nations and to our unshakable faith in our common ability together to forge a better future a glorious future for the whole of humankind. India congratulates Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election as President of the first General Assembly of this millennium. We are encouraged that he intends to take the Millennium Declaration as the mandate for the work of the Organization during his presidency. I take this opportunity to sincerely compliment and to place on record our high appreciation of Foreign Minister Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia for his guidance of the General Assembly in the past year, which included three special sessions and, of course, meticulous preparations for and a successful conclusion to the Millennium Summit. I join India's voice to those of other delegations in noting with appreciation the dedication with which Secretary-General Kofi Annan has served the United Nations at a critical point. I am delighted on this occasion to warmly welcome Tuvalu as the newest Member of the United Nations. Just 10 days ago, almost 150 heads of State and Government assembled here for the Millennium Summit. Their assembly in such large numbers was as unique as was the occasion itself. The Millennium Declaration that was then adopted encapsulates a shared vision that the international community work together in constructive cooperation to meet collective challenges, within the framework of the United Nations. It was in this spirit that my Prime Minister spoke, as did many others, of the need for the United Nations to truly reflect the world of the twenty-first century, to make it an effective instrument to translate 17 our vision into reality. The United Nations is the house that we all share. We must strengthen it and ensure that it is equal to our collective expectations and our joint aspirations. Peace, collective security and development inspire the spirit of the United Nations. We enter the twenty-first century with extraordinary collective intellectual and technical capabilities. These are our global tools for overcoming the challenges before us. Peace and security for all is not just possible but is well within our grasp. Stability and development are the essential building blocks for the maintenance of peace and security. Threats to peace can and do arise from different sources. It is not just weapons of mass destruction or an arms race that endanger peace, but also dehumanizing poverty and lack of development. We must act as confident nation States committed to collective action and international cooperation, for these are our means to provide wider effects of peace and progress. We must reaffirm the principle of respect for State sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of countries. Thus, self-evidently, we must abjure unilateral action. Whenever circumstances warrant action by the Security Council, that action must be firmly rooted in Charter provisions. The Brahimi Panel's report contains a number of proposals. We recommend that the General Assembly examine this important report carefully and take appropriate decisions to strengthen this vital United Nations function of peacekeeping. We support the Middle East peace process and find the trend encouraging. The historic summit between the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, too, augurs well for peace in the Korean peninsula. Disarmament — global nuclear disarmament in particular — is essential to engender a greater sense of security among Member States. India has been and will continue to be in the forefront of efforts towards global nuclear disarmament and genuine non-proliferation. We welcome the recommendation of the Secretary- General in his report to the Millennium Summit to convene an international conference on eliminating nuclear danger. We urge commencement of negotiations on a nuclear-weapons convention to bring about a nuclear-weapon-free world. India remains ready to participate in agreed and irreversible steps, such as de-alerting of nuclear forces, thus lowering nuclear danger, through accidental use or otherwise, as well as a global agreement on no-first-use and on non- use of nuclear weapons against non-nuclear-weapon States. The situation with regard to the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) and the lack of progress on a programme of work at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva show the importance of building a consensus, both within and amongst nations, on issues that affect national and international security. We are conscious that 155 countries are at present signatories of the CTBT. We reiterate to them our continuing commitment that India does not wish to stand in the way of entry into force of the CTBT. India volunteered to observe, and continues to observe, a moratorium on further explosive nuclear testing. This meets the basic obligations of the CTBT. India also remains ready to engage in meaningful negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament, including on a global treaty to ban the future production of fissile material for weapons purposes. The illicit transfer, manufacture and circulation of small arms, particularly by States to non-State actors and to terrorist groups, and their intrinsic linkage with terrorism and narco-trafficking are matters of very deep concern to the world community. When they are combined with religious fanaticism and military adventurism, a threat is posed to the global civilized norms to which we strive to adhere. The international community can no longer afford to permit these purveyors of death, outrage and destruction to continue to inflict untold suffering upon innocents. We look forward to a successful outcome of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, to be held next year. Terrorism is the global menace of our age. For some, it tends to replace ideology and policy. India has been the object of State-sponsored, cross-border terrorism in its most inhuman manifestations for more than a decade. Even as the international community works together to curb, control and stamp out the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, we need to continually focus our attention on the users of such weapons — the terrorists. Terrorism is an assault on human decency, a violation of the basic precepts of democracy and the very antithesis of what the United Nations represents and stands for. Because its principal 18 targets are the innocent, it is indeed the most flagrant violation of basic human rights. It constitutes a crime against humanity. It is also a threat to international peace and security, especially when terrorists are armed, financed and backed by Governments or their agencies. I urge all Members to work to strengthen the international consensus and legal regimes against terrorism. We have proposed the draft of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. I urge all Members of the United Nations to give their total support to this initiative. Let me now dwell briefly on the instrument of our choice to accomplish our global agenda: the United Nations. There is but one United Nations; none replicate it, nor can any replace it. The membership of the United Nations has increased manifold in the last half century, and today stands at 189. Yet the Security Council continues to have the same basic structure as in the colonized world of 1945. The need for expansion of the membership of the Security Council in both permanent and non- permanent categories is self-evident. The impact of actions of the Security Council is felt, with near total exclusivity, by the developing countries. Yet they have little influence in its decision-making. We have a global consensus that the form taken by the Security Council in the aftermath of the Second World War is outmoded and that it must reflect the logic of an enlarged membership. At the Millennium Summit more than 150 States, at the highest level, endorsed the need for a Council reformed in its representation. An unrepresentative Security Council will lack the range and depth of sensitivity, perceptiveness and understanding of the realities that it will have to deal with or the moral authority to take decisions. I reaffirm India's willingness to take on the responsibilities of permanent membership. The General Assembly is the most important organ of the United Nations. It is here that all States, irrespective of considerations of strength, economy or size, sit together as equals, embodying the democratic principle of sovereign equality. There is a growing feeling among Member States that the functioning and role of the General Assembly has to be made more effective. As the revolutions of the digital age reduce distance to the click of a mouse, bringing us together into a new global neighbourhood as never before in history, and as forces of globalization inexorably lead us to increasing interdependence, our canvas of international cooperation and collective action has rapidly expanded. It has also become vastly more complex. The General Assembly has therefore to be central in accepting this new responsibility, this new challenge. Even as we week to strengthen democratic principles and practices in the United Nations, and even as the spreading sweep of democracy casts aside dictatorships and authoritarian regimes, we have unfortunately witnessed some instances of regression as well. Such acts move against the currents of our times. The international community should oppose these assaults on the spirit of our times and uncompromisingly support and strengthen democratic impulses, practices and norms. It should show its solidarity with the people of such countries. The Organization of African Unity and the Commonwealth deserve our commendation for the steps they have taken in this regard. Developments in Fiji since 19 May this year have caused us deep concern. We appreciate the action taken by the Commonwealth after the overthrow of the constitutionally elected democratic Government there. We hope that Fiji will return immediately to the constitutional base of 1997 and restore the rule by law at the earliest opportunity by putting an end to racial discrimination. This is in Fiji's own long-term interest. We hope that the international community will exercise its collective authority and influence to bring Fiji back to the road of democracy and the rule of law. It appears, sadly, that the world has forgotten Afghanistan. The fratricidal conflict in that country continues on account of the Taliban's pursuit of the mirage of military success. It also continues because of outside support, military and financial, to the Taliban. This conflict and the Taliban's mediaeval obscurantist ideologies continue to cause untold suffering to the Afghan people. This adversely affects the peace and security of the entire neighbourhood, from West to Central Asia to South Asia. The negatives that emanate from the Taliban-controlled areas of Afghanistan, in the shape of terrorism, drug trafficking and the flow of arms, cause justifiable concern all over the world. The Taliban and their mentor must heed the world's demands and abandon the path of conflict. We stand for a comprehensive settlement in Afghanistan that 19 restores peace at the earliest and ensures the interests and aspirations of all sections of that society. We have consistently called upon the United Nations to increase its development orientation and engagement, which is a core responsibility. We welcome and support the declaration of the Secretary- General last week to the United Nations Development Programme's ministerial meeting that deficit in development will put in jeopardy all other goals of the United Nations. To address the root causes of poverty meaningfully, we need firm international commitments to re-order and reshape international relations, in consequence providing for equitable opportunities to developing countries for resource earnings. Our call is even more relevant in today's fast integrating world. Developing countries and their people cannot thrive on a diet of advice and goodwill alone. We therefore hope that the forthcoming conference on financing for development would endorse concrete initiatives for mobilization of the required external resources for development, whether from trade or concessional flows, and treat this as a shared global goal. In this context, it would be useful to establish the difference that would be made if there was universal adherence to the agreed official development assistance(ODA) target of 0.7 per cent of Gross National Product(GNP), within a specified time frame. Nowhere is this more important than in the continent of Africa. Africa's efforts need to be adequately supported by the international community. We believe that issues relating to the development of African countries must remain at the forefront of the work of the General Assembly. The process of globalization, with revolutionary leaps in communications and the great advance in information technology and increased mobility of capital, trade and technology, has produced new potential for sustained economic growth. The benefits of globalization have, however, not percolated to the vast sections who live mired in poverty, without shelter, in hunger and in deprivation. Globalization has often been accompanied by enhanced poverty, unemployment and consequent social disintegration. This poses a major challenge. We have to determine an inclusive concept of growth and development. We have to strive for the uplifting of people in the largest sense, and not simply in terms of sectoral advances. While GDP growth rates and selective indicators may point to growth in an economy, the elimination of poverty and enhancement of the quality of life and creation of real choices must be integral to the process of assessing the success of development efforts. In India, we have formulated development strategies on the premise that economic and social policies must subserve the primacy of the human being, and in particular the poorest. Market forces and growth alone are not the answer. Intervention to guarantee social justice is crucial. Development based on uneven rewards will not be supported by those who are not its beneficiaries. It places great stress on the social fabric. The fullest possible participation of the people in the development process is the best guarantee for the success of any growth strategy. Many challenges lie ahead of us. Impediments to sustained economic growth for developing countries abound. Protectionist tendencies in developed countries, a lack of political will to implement commitments undertaken regarding development finance and tardy alleviation of the debt burden of developing countries aggravate the situation. Special and differential treatment for developing countries guaranteed under World Trade Organization (WTO) provisions must be translated into operational reality. Developed countries should not seek to restrict market access to goods and services and free movement of natural persons, especially at a time when developing countries are being asked to open up their economies and compete in the international economic domain. Another challenge relates to reconciling the needs of economic and industrial growth with the need for preservation and protection of the environment. A safe and healthy environment for our peoples is an imperative. At the same time, all development cannot be sacrificed at the absolutist altar of environmental preservation. Sustainability of growth strategy and environmental conservation cannot and should not imply maintenance of poverty. Developing countries have done commendable work in the implementation of Agenda 21, in the context of an exceptionally difficult global environment. The promised resources from developed countries have failed to materialize. The transfer of technologies on preferential and concessional terms has not been forthcoming. Indeed, impediments are placed on technology transfer even on commercial terms. The special session of the United Nations General 20 Assembly on the review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21 in 2002 should concentrate on finding solutions in addressing such unfulfilled commitments and providing reality and operational content to the declaration that “eradication of poverty is the over-riding priority of developing countries”. Children and issues relating to them are a priority. We hope that the special session of the General Assembly next year will concentrate on the implementation of the Declaration of the World Summit on Children. Advancement of the democratic spirit and overcoming challenges to it, growth with equity, economic development with social justice and, as the prize that we seek, the creation of a world where injustice and deprivation give way to fulfilment and welfare for all are among the goals that we should set for ourselves at the dawn of this new century. The challenge is nothing less than collective enlightened global ownership. The General Assembly once again faces a heavy and challenging agenda on this long road before us. Let us wish ourselves success in our endeavours.  I take this opportunity to congratulate the President of the General Assembly on his election. I am confident that his vision and energy will guide this session to a successful conclusion. I also thank Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, who led the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly with distinction and efficiency. I commend Mr. Kofi Annan, the esteemed Secretary-General of this Organization, for the thoughtful recommendations which he has put forward in his report to the Millennium Summit entitled “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. His vision and stewardship have proved to be vital factors in advancing the work and mission of the United Nations at this critical time in the history of the Organization and the world. I join the previous speakers in welcoming the nation of Tuvalu as the 189th and newest Member of the United Nations family. Our newest entrant is also the smallest Member country of the Organization, with a population of 10,000 and a land area of nine square miles. It was very pleasing to my delegation to see the leader of that nation proudly take his place among the other leaders of the world in what was the largest gathering of heads of State or Government ever assembled in one place, the Millennium Summit. There is a special affinity between the countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and Tuvalu. We are among the smallest constituents of the Organization. We share similar historical and constitutional experiences. We face the same environmental threats. We look forward, with confidence, to a future involving the creative 29 utilization of the phenomenal developments in the area of information technology. My country's Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Sir James F. Mitchell, joined other leaders from the Caribbean Community, of which he is the current Chairman, in denouncing the growing insensitivity towards and disregard for the interests of small developing countries on the part of the powerful in today's world. In his address to the Millennium Summit the Prime Minister noted that while our religious heritage has taught us how to reach across the boundaries of nations through the very inspirational guideline, “love your neighbour as yourself”, small and vulnerable island States such as our own are being victimized by the application of international rules crafted by the mighty to serve their own purposes, oblivious to the concerns, and consequences for the well-being, of others. We are all affected by the modalities of the global village which we inhabit, through revolutionary developments in communication technology. Indeed, we have all become neighbours, and yet the competition among the world's peoples has become fiercer, with the rich countries surging ahead and widening the gap with poor countries. This gap is now related not only to material wealth, but also, frighteningly, to the ability of less developed countries to compete in the accepted medium of communication, because of the existence of an ever-widening digital divide. The Millennium Summit concluded with the adoption by world leaders of a Declaration affirming the importance of the United Nations and the need to strengthen its peacekeeping operations, as well as making commitments to targeted reductions in poverty, the levels of inhuman living conditions experienced by impoverished nations around the world, the incidence and spread of HIV/AIDS and the provision of basic education for all children. On the other hand, we are aware that the current world order is rapidly falling out of step with today's realities and that there is a pressing need for the international community to come together and address the numerous challenges before us. We must acknowledge that efforts to address old issues, like world poverty and its distribution, as well as new ones arising from globalization, the rapid growth of information technology and the resulting digital divide, the consequences of the environmental degradation of our planet, HIV/AIDS and gender issues, among others, have largely been inadequate. Our common and daunting task is therefore to ensure that this globalized world will be beneficial for all and not just for some. More than ever before, there is an urgent need to foster a consciousness of universal moral values in order to deal with present-day problems, all of which are assuming an increasingly global dimension. The promotion of peace and human rights, the settling of armed conflicts, both within and among States, the protection of immigrants, the safeguarding of the environment, the battle against terrible diseases, the fight against drug and arms trafficking, money laundering and economic and political corruption are issues which no nation, regardless of how wealthy or powerful, can successfully address alone. They concern the entire human community and must be addressed and resolved through common universal efforts. My country, a small State in the Caribbean, has always been aware of its interdependence with other countries for its prosperity and security. We have moved to advance our interests through multilateral cooperation in the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), CARICOM, the Organization of American States (OAS), the Association of Caribbean States (ACS), the Commonwealth and the institutions of the United Nations system. For a small developing country like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, multilateralism is not an option; it is an integral part of our policies and programmes to enhance our standard of living and create a better life for all of our people. I therefore reiterate my country's commitment to and support for the work of the United Nations and its agencies in this regard. The Millennium Summit provided an appropriate opportunity for the assembled leaders to rededicate themselves to the attempt to have an impact on and change for the better the quality of life of the world's poorest people, who are trapped in a vicious cycle of deprivation and suffering. The Summit will have proved worthwhile if it is remembered not as a highprofile event to make the transition to a new millennium, but as an event that made the transition from words to deeds. The times demand nothing less. The security, welfare and development of people must, in the context of any new world order, dominate the attention of the world's multilateral financial institutions, as well as of the United Nations. We must undertake sustained and concerted efforts to free our people from poverty, hunger, illiteracy and disease. 30 While micro-credit and other poverty-alleviation programmes have been successful, much needs to be done to eradicate poverty. In this era of plenty, millions still suffer from hunger. We had curbed old diseases like malaria, cholera and tuberculosis, but they have reappeared in new and drug-resistant forms. Deadly diseases like HIV/AIDS are spreading at an alarming pace. The leaders of the Caribbean Community have placed combating this pandemic at the top of the regional agenda. This scourge has already claimed the lives of over 10 million people. It is projected to claim the lives of over 200 million by the year 2010, the majority of them in sub-Saharan Africa. The developed world is not spared, either. Worldwide figures indicate that 34 million people are living with the disease, over 18 million have died since the beginning of the epidemic and over 13 million children have become orphaned. In the Caribbean region, the disease now threatens the human resource development efforts of CARICOM and could reverse the social and economic gains of the countries in that subregion. The prevalence rate in the wider Caribbean is estimated at 172 cases per 100,000 people, the highest rate of prevalence in the Americas, and second, in terms of the growth rate, to sub-Saharan Africa. A United Nations AIDS survey in 1999 showed that over 360,000 adults and children in our region were living with the disease. There is no immunity. International cooperation in the medical, ethical and legal fields must be intensified if the disease is to be contained. We cannot preach about human rights and the universality of the United Nations while at the same time ignoring the aspirations of over 23 million people in the Republic of China on Taiwan. It is the view of the Saint Vincent and the Grenadines delegation that the time has come when serious consideration should be given to the eligibility of the Republic of China on Taiwan to become a Member of the United Nations. In this regard, my Government is urging that the subject be placed on the agenda of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. We urge every Member State of this noble Organization to give its full support to this worthy initiative for a country whose democratic credentials cannot be challenged. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines welcomes the progress made in the Middle East peace process thus far, and expresses the hope that through dialogue, compromise and goodwill, the dream of lasting peace may become a reality. If countries like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are to survive globalization, the international community must give careful and urgent consideration to the following measures: the revitalization of growth in developed countries; the lowering of interest rates; access to the world's markets for the products of developing countries; the reduction of debt and the debt-service burden; the reversal of the deteriorating situation in the marketing arrangements for primary products produced in the developing countries; economic diversification; increasing the levels of official development assistance and humanitarian aid; reductions in net capital flows from bilateral and multilateral sources; and combating the negative consequences of the graduation of some countries like ours, by international financial institutions, from concessionary funding arrangements. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines shares the concerns of other developing countries with regard to the general decline in official development assistance and the flow of foreign direct investment to developing countries. We look forward to the consultation on financing for development planned for 2001. The changing world environment dictates the need for the revitalization and restructuring of the various organs of the United Nations organizations, but my Government attaches very high priority to the revitalization and strengthening of the role of the United Nations in promoting international cooperation for sound development, including economic development. We share the view that the United Nations should be encouraged to develop its full potential in the area of international economic cooperation and should be endowed with the requisite resources to contribute to solving the serious economic and social problems facing developing countries in their efforts to achieve sustained economic growth and development. We commend those donor countries that have made financial contributions to the South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission to assist the development of an environmental vulnerability index, and call for the early adoption by the international community of a vulnerability index that would serve as a guide for multilateral financial institutions and the 31 United Nations on the specific vulnerabilities of developing countries. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, like other small island developing States in the strategically located Caribbean, continues to be plagued by the endemic problems of the production, trafficking and consumption of illicit drugs and psychotropic substances. This modern day scourge continues to pose serious problems which threaten to destroy the social and moral fabric of our communities. My Government is fully committed to the ongoing process of cooperation with other countries to counter these illegal activities. In this regard, I wish to reiterate in this forum our complete support for the Multilateral Evaluation Mechanism (MEM), developed by the member countries of the Organization of American States (OAS) to monitor countries' cooperation in the international fight against the drug trade. I also take this opportunity to urge that more resources be allocated through collaborative efforts by the international community to encourage farmers to keep away from the production of illicit crops. In his address to the Millennium Summit, the Chairman of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) spoke of the outstanding and invaluable record of good governance and respect for human rights and democracy in the entire Caribbean region. These are aspects of our society of which we are eternally proud. Recently in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, our constitutional democracy was put to the test through open expressions of dissent, but withstood the ordeal through dialogue and compromise. My Government is pleased to put on record its appreciation to the Vincentian people for upholding democratic values and respecting the supremacy of the constitution and the rule of law as fundamental principles by which our beloved country exists and governs itself. I also wish to express gratitude to CARICOM, to the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), to the churches, to the National Youth Council, to the Chamber of Industry and Commerce, to the Employers' Federation and to many individuals and other institutions for their invaluable contributions in bringing about a swift resolution of the matter. My Government has long recognized the urgent need for constitutional reform and will continue to work with other interested parties to bring about meaningful change that would seek, among other things, to strengthen the foundations of our democracy. As full members of this body, we have seen, at close quarters, the importance of constitutional reform in the promotion of democracy, stability and economic development. We also recognize that constitutional reform is crucial to strengthening our own integration processes within the Caribbean Community, including the establishment of a Caribbean court of justice, to be, inter alia, the authoritative body adjudicating on matters pertaining to the interpretation and implementation of the provisions of the Treaty of Chaguaramas, which established CARICOM. Many matters of profound importance to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the Caribbean Community as a whole are included in the agenda of this fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. These include: sustainable development, the future of United Nations reform, the International Criminal Court and human rights, the death penalty and financing for development. I wish, once again, to focus the attention of this noble gathering to the issue of the Caribbean banana trade with the European Union (EU). The facts are well documented. Banana exports to the European Union from my country and similarly from Dominica, Saint Lucia and other African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries are crucial to the economies of these countries and represent over half of all export earnings in some cases. The industry provides substantial employment for many families in Dominica, Saint Lucia and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, my own country. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is appreciative of the efforts of the European Commission and other parties which seek to bring about an amicable and equitable solution to the dispute. However we are deeply concerned that, should the tariff quota regime be eliminated as a means of ensuring conformity with the 1999 World Trade Organization (WTO) ruling, this would have immeasurable harmful consequences for our economy. It will lead to the destruction of the Caribbean banana industry and negatively affect other ACP supplying States where exports are also crucial to the economy. The two alternative solutions being proposed by the European Commission, that is a first come, first served system, along with a tariff rate quota and, if that proves impracticable, moving directly to a tariff only system, would prove to be disadvantageous and 32 disastrous for the Caribbean industry. Neither system ensures access. We therefore urge the interested parties to the dispute to use their substantial influence to bring about the much-needed breakthrough which will facilitate a resolution that is acceptable to all parties. An efficacious settlement of this long-standing issue will support our efforts, as a small economically vulnerable island State, in eradicating poverty and maintaining peace and economic security, which are vital for the achievement of economic diversification within a reasonable period of transition. While we recognize that there are structural and inherent disadvantages that inhibit our ability to compete with highly integrated operations on the market, we ask that an equitable solution be sought in order to allow our people to engage meaningfully in trade and development, rather than be forever subjected to the aid and dependency syndrome. Our expressed desire to hold on to our banana industry, which served us well, in no way reflects any misunderstanding of the realities of the present day trade and economic environment. My delegation also wishes to express its concern over the procedural obstacles raised in Geneva within the WTO that would prevent consideration of the waiver requested in respect of the new ACP-EU Partnership Agreement if it includes bananas without advice on how the regime will be formed. My country and other members of the Caribbean Community have been actively engaged in diversifying our economies throughout the last quarter of the last century. This has involved activities in the agricultural, manufacturing, tourism and service sectors. In Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, as a direct corollary of this thrust, we have improved air access to our country and my Government continues to prioritize the education of our people to prepare them for the opportunities that will accrue. My Government will continue to honour its commitments to all international agreements to which it is signatory. In furtherance to our international obligation we have signed the following: the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, the United Nations Convention on the Carriage of Goods by Sea, the International Convention Against the Taking of Hostages and the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic Agents. All of these instruments were deposited with the Secretary General during the Millennium Summit. During his speech at the Millennium Summit, Prime Minister Mitchell stated that: “Small island States such as our own, with an enviable record of good governance and human rights, have seen the mighty in the banana trade using the international rules — crafted by them — impede our economic growth.” Similarly, the verdicts that have been imposed by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) on our financial services, without any deference to our rights to be heard, demonstrate total disregard for the well-being of small vulnerable States attempting to diversify their economies. I echo Prime Minister Mitchell's sentiment, “Where is the fairness in free trade?” Offshore financial services is one of our chosen avenues of economic diversification. We believe that we are capable of offering a useful, professional and mutually beneficial service to our clients. Accordingly, in 1995 we embarked on a comprehensive legislative exercise to ensure that we would put in place a regulatory and supervisory framework to adequately administer the conduct of international financial businesses operating in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. In our efforts to further strengthen our regulatory regime against money laundering activities, we enacted six additional pieces of offshore legislation. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is committed to being a responsible member of the international community, including by playing its part in the war against money laundering. We believe that those who toil to build a better life for themselves, their children, their grandchildren and any other beneficiaries, should be afforded the right of privacy in their affairs. Such people should have access to facilities that will preserve that privacy, and the opportunity should be created for them to optimize and maximize their wealth. It is, however, important to note that whilst we believe in the preservation of privacy, we are also resolute in efforts to ensure that persons of undesirable character and conduct are not allowed to take advantage of the opportunities that are available in our international finance sector. 33 My country and others in the Caribbean Community are deeply concerned that the so-called harmful tax initiative of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is designed to frustrate tax competition, and that it threatens the sovereignty of small island States desperately seeking creative avenues for survival. Such action on the part of the OECD could encourage the creation of a tax cartel, thereby removing the possibility of lower taxes from those who wish to legitimately escape them through the exercise of free choice. It would also close off an area of diversification and economic activity in which poor developing countries can be competitive and which they have actively promoted for a long time. The unilateral practices of the OECD, the Financial Stability Forum and the Financial Action Task Force also impact negatively on the burden of taxation in wealthy countries, impair the competitive capacity of Caribbean jurisprudence in the provision of a global financial service and stifle economic growth in the 47 blacklisted countries, with all the concomitant evils. The small island States of the Caribbean are among those countries most at risk from the adverse effects of climate change. Already, many of our islands are experiencing those effects in areas that impact directly on the important tourism sector of our economies. We are also prone to extremely damaging natural disasters, especially hurricanes and storm surges, which visit us annually with increasing frequency and ferocity. Our diverse region also experiences droughts and floods, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, with equally devastating effects, if less regularly than the pleasantly named perennials. The continued committed support of the international community is crucial in complementing the work of those States in addressing these serious problems. Our survival as a region is intimately interwoven with our environment. Our physical and economic limitations should not be further burdened by the transshipment of hazardous waste through our waterways. Such actions are a flagrant violation of our human rights and an affront to our sovereign dignity. We therefore reiterate the call for the Caribbean Sea to be a nuclear-free zone in the context of sustainable development. In closing, I take this opportunity to pay tribute in this forum to one who has upheld the highest ideals of the Charter of the United Nations, through service to our country, to the Caribbean and to the international community. I speak of the Prime Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and current Chairman of the Caribbean Community, The Right Honourable Sir James F. Mitchell. For 34 years he has served as an elected member of our legislature. He has seen our country through the stages of constitutional development from crown colony to internal selfgovernment, and finally, as our longest serving Prime Minister, to a fully independent State. For us in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, it is difficult to contemplate public life without him. His address at the Millennium Summit was his last to this body, for he has decided to demit office as Prime Minister before the twenty-first anniversary of our political independence, on 27 October 2000. Sir James Mitchell has made us all proud by his long, dedicated and visionary service. The initiatives taken by him in the area of land reform, which empowered people through land ownership, are exemplary. I think it is appropriate that, on behalf of Vincentians everywhere, I extend sincere gratitude to him from this rostrum. The challenge is ours: to turn our words into action and to agree on a common vision of our future.  I convey to the President the warmest felicitations of Sri Lanka on his election to the high office of President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, and I pledge to him Sri Lanka's fullest cooperation and support in his work. To the Foreign Minister of Namibia, Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab, I convey Sri Lanka's appreciation and admiration for the masterly manner in which he served as President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome Tuvalu to the membership of the United Nations. The Millennium Summit is over. I fervently hope that its dreams and hopes for a better world will never fade from the hearts and minds of all mankind. The President of Sri Lanka, Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, unable to attend the Summit, conveyed, 24 through a message I had the honour to read out to the Summit, her hopes and her vision for the future of humanity. Her words were these: “Peace among all States and peace among all peoples within States so that all, and not only some, may in safety, without fear, in dignity, without humiliation, in good health, and in material and spiritual well-being enjoy the wonders of life on this miracle we call the planet Earth.” (A/55/PV.7) Therefore, the President of Sri Lanka spoke, with emphasis, of the necessity of protecting and preserving, for the future, those minimal and most fundamental certainties that the Member States of the United Nations have been able to establish — in particular, to preserve what was and continues to be the Organization's very foundation: the entity we know as the State. She pointed out that it was in the General Assembly that representatives of Governments, of peoples and of States gather together under a Charter that assures States of their sovereign equality, their political independence and their territorial integrity. These are the fundamentals of the United Nations system. And this is as it should be. States are the principal organizational entities into which the peoples of this planet have gathered. The principal, overall organizational edifice of the international community is the inter-States system. For the entity we know as the State, there is no substitute. If States weaken, so will this Organization. If States are diminished, so will this Organization be diminished. Thus, it was the plea of the President of Sri Lanka that everything possible be done to protect and preserve, and not to decry or endeavour to erode, the stability and the well-being of the entity we know as the State, for whose sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence the Charter gave us its assurance. Before proceeding any further I should make it clear — in view of recent statements on the part of speakers of obvious goodwill and intentions, but with whose fundamental premises I fundamentally differ — that those who assert the necessity of continued reaffirmation of the sovereignty of the State in terms of the Charter must not be regarded — I repeat, must not be regarded — as having in any way diminished their commitment to the importance of universal adherence to human rights and all that is required for the dignity of the individual. Sri Lanka is deeply committed to the promotion and protection of the human rights of its own people and of all peoples everywhere. There is, however, a substantial body of opinion, within which Sri Lanka includes itself, which is of the view that the way to proceed in the matter of human rights and the dignity of the individual is properly through continued and close cooperation between all States, while respecting the sovereignty of each. The way of multilateralism or globalization, which appear expressly or by implication to overlook or diminish the sovereignty of States, is not, to many of us in this Hall, a commendable course. It is not a course whose worthiness in practice has as yet been established. Indeed, most endeavours to overlook or diminish the sovereignty of States have often had disastrous consequences. With that initial clarification and a reminder that human rights are for the observance not only of States, but non-State entities as well, I shall proceed with the remainder of my address. We must bear in mind that the entities we know as States are national and international corporate entities of enormous complexity, differing in so many respects from corporate entities of the private sector and, of course, differing as well from those innumerable entities, in their thousands now, to which we refer, broadly and benignly, but somewhat simplistically, as civil society. If the management of a developed State with more than adequate resources at its command is a complex undertaking, how much more complex would be the management of a developing State without such resources and such infrastructures? Then there are those developing States such as Sri Lanka, with their multi-ethnic, multireligious societies where the legacies of centuries of a colonial past take more than one generation to erase. Aside from the pressures inherent in the very nature and history of a State, let us not forget the additional external pressures a State is subject to — economic, social and political, legitimate and illegitimate, civil and uncivil, and often criminal — that the age of information and its consequences have brought in their wake. These are external pressures that raise troubling uncertainties for many States and for 25 developing States in particular, that are without the blessings of abundant resources and advanced infrastructures. These are uncertainties that strain the structures of States and could come close to threatening their very existence. Where the processes of globalization are exploited to their advantage by the irresponsible or the illegitimate or the criminal, one is reminded of the report from the Secretariat received by this Assembly three years ago which drew attention to the threat to Government authority and civil society, to law and order and to legitimate economic and political institutions posed by transnational networks of crime, narcotics, money laundering and terrorism having access to sophisticated information technologies and weaponry. Of course, where there is the use of internal armed force against a State, as in my country, the complexities within a State compound themselves many times over; and we know that the use of armed force against a State is the greatest threat of all to its preservation and well-being. This is particularly so in democracies, whose very openness makes them most vulnerable; and Sri Lanka is a democracy of long- standing and unwavering commitment to democratic fundamentals. Peace among States, the primary purpose of the Charter, has to a large extent been achieved, if not in fact in every case, at least in general, and in terms of generally observed rules of international law, under and pursuant to Charter provisions that proscribe the use of armed force by one State against another State, except in self-defence or as authorized by the Security Council. Yet when we turn to peace within States, and the use of armed force against a State internally, we see an entirely different, and an often confusing and frustrating, picture. Each armed conflict is unique; each a creature of its own history; the nature of each determined by its own surroundings. There is no simplicity of circumstance, no uniformity in scenario, no easy solution. Internal armed conflicts come in many different forms. The relatively clear-cut format of a United Nations response to inter-State armed conflicts — monitoring a truce and keeping the peace after an agreed cessation of hostilities — seems, for internal armed conflicts, inadequate or inapplicable. The Charter does not prescribe how this Organization should proceed in cases of internal armed conflicts, except for the wise admonition in Article 2, paragraph 7, which says, “Nothing contained in the present Charter shall authorize the United Nations to intervene in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State.” In view of the varieties, complexities and intricacies of internal armed conflicts, this Organization appears to be without the necessary structure, the knowledge, expertise, experience and resources — and often, it would seem — without the necessary collective will. To suggest that the United Nations should intervene in internal armed conflicts across the board — a suggestion made, on occasion, by persons of obvious goodwill but with little knowledge of local circumstances — is wishful thinking of the most simplistic kind, and incorrect in the extreme. A proposition of such a nature ignores the fundamental premise, indeed the truism, articulated so impressively to the Millennium Summit by the head of State of Algeria, President Bouteflika, in his summation of the deliberations of round table four: that a democracy, offering to all its peoples the fundamental necessities of peaceful, all-inclusive political processes, simply cannot tolerate armed defiance of the democratically expressed will of the populace of a State, which an armed terroristic attack on a democratic State so obviously constitutes. At a more practical level, where would this Organization — woefully under-financed for the fulfilment of its development objectives, which billions around this world expectantly await — obtain the further resources for such far-flung interventions in internal domestic crises. Charter provisions and United Nations practice affirm that a State may act in individual or collective self-defence should there be an armed attack across its frontiers. Yet, against massive internal armed attack, the abilities of most States — or at least the abilities of most developing States — to react with equivalent armed force in self-defence, or in enforcement of the law of the land, or in the maintenance of law and order, are very limited. Traditional police services are inadequate in design, in training, in equipment and in 26 experience. Few States have ready and affordable access to the necessary information or intelligence. Few States are able to maintain military infrastructures effective against heavily armed guerrilla-type onslaughts and the horrors of terror. Such has been the experience of my country. Sri Lanka has for many years had within its territory an armed conflict that has complicated the lives of the entire population of the country. It is a conflict of an extraordinary nature. A very small group of armed fighters and supporters — numbering less than 15,000 persons in total; schooled in and totally devoted to violence; rejecting the processes of peaceful society and participatory governance; achieving, through the practice of systematic terror, national and international notoriety; rebuffing all overtures for settlement of such problems as they may have through dialogue — continues, in defiance of law and order, in rebellion against the State to fight for the establishment of a separate, monolingual, mono-ethnic State in our territory. A democratic State, because of its openness, its laws, traditions and practices and its commitment to tolerance and dissent, is especially vulnerable to the deployment of force against it by any group within its boundaries. An internal armed challenge to any State anywhere is a challenge to all States everywhere. Unless all States, democratic States in particular, agree to come to the aid of a State in such peril, democracy itself will be imperilled everywhere. Democracy will not survive. When the security and integrity of one State is threatened by an armed group within it, surely — especially in these contemporary times, with the cold war far behind us — it behoves all other States to deny that armed group any encouragement, any succour, any safe haven. Today, for the prosecution of terrorist activities in one country, massive funds are raised with impunity in other countries, often through knowing or unknowing front organizations or other entities that now proliferate in many forms and in many countries, and often, sadly, in the guise of charitable groups or groups ostensibly concerned with human rights or ethnic, cultural or social matters. The magnitude of the collection of funds abroad for terrorist purposes, and the extensiveness of the reach of the international networks developed for that purpose, boggle the mind. Their receipts seem to exceed the receipts of many transnational conglomerates — all free of tax. Revenues come, of course, from the customary illegal trade in drugs, arms or other merchandise, including the smuggling of humans. But there also exists a far more abundant and seemingly limitless reservoir of funds — namely, expatriates of similar ethnicity settled abroad. As the western media has reported over the past few years from time to time, collections from expatriates abroad for the armed group known as the Tamil Tigers, which is battling the Government of Sri Lanka, are staggering in their magnitude: for example, $400,000 a month from one country; $600,000 a month from another; $2.7 million a month from yet another; and large additional funds from expatriates in still other countries. In 1988 an excellent study was published on financial havens, banking secrecy and money laundering, a study by experts in the field, commissioned by the United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention. In order to implement adequately the provisions of the recently adopted International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, a study of a similar nature by United Nations bodies on the collection of external funds for massive, continuous internal armed rebellion against a State, such as occurs in Sri Lanka, becomes especially necessary when the armed group battling a State is in blatant violation of the human rights and humanitarian norms and standards — including those relating to children and to children in armed conflict — that this Organization so correctly and so diligently espouses as the minimal contemporary requirements in human society. I proposed such a study at the fourth round table of the Millennium Summit, and that proposal was endorsed by our Chairman, President Bouteflika of Algeria, in his summation to the General Assembly of the proceedings of our round table. I urge that the international community give favourable consideration to that proposal. As the years go by, and the armed conflict fuelled by such massive funds from abroad continues within a State, paradoxically, international perceptions seem to blur, not only among those in civil society, who are often uninformed, but even on the part of those in positions of international authority, within and outside 27 this Organization, who should know better. The existence of the internal armed conflict and the resulting casualties are bemoaned, and a cessation of hostilities is urged at any price, in seeming inattention to the fundamental fact that it is the armed internal group that is the aggressor and it is the State that is the victim. Such a blurring of international perceptions in some quarters as to what the crucial facts are, is distressing, and profoundly disappointing, to those, such as we in Sri Lanka, who have struggled hard, and continue to struggle hard, to preserve our democratic way of life and the richness of our multi-ethnic, multireligious culture in the pluralistic tolerance we were once so blessed to enjoy. I hope that the thoughts that I have expressed today on the nature of the affairs of States, and of the affairs of developing States in the main, will show in some measure why a sympathetic, rather than an inquisitorial, style is by far preferable in relation to the affairs of States, as in all human relationships. At a more general level, I would like, before I move on from this part of my statement, to refer to two other relevant questions: the role of the General Assembly and the role of civil society in the affairs of the United Nations. The General Assembly is the only principal organ of the United Nations in which all Member States are represented, and the only principal organ whose terms of reference allow for consideration of any matter within the scope of the Charter. Yet there is the perception among some that the centre of gravity in decision-making on questions of major policy importance to the Organization appears to have moved away from the General Assembly to an extent unknown in earlier years. Sri Lanka greatly welcomes, therefore, the reaffirmation in paragraph 30 of the Millennium Declaration of the central position of the General Assembly as the chief deliberative, policy- making and representative organ of the United Nations, and the commitment of all nations to enable the General Assembly to play that role effectively. The practical manner in which the General Assembly could play that role will, of course, require very careful thought. The ways in which “civil society”, and the innumerable entities that that expression encompasses, could best contribute to the work of the United Nations — in terms of data collection, research and analysis and expertise — in a manner that does not prejudice the role of States in the affairs of the United Nations, will also require most careful examination. Such contributions should be made in a manner that is not partial or partisan, in favour of or against, but, rather, in a manner that befits an objective and neutral consultant. Moreover, although civil society within a national context could be, and is, well accommodated in domestic political processes, the manner in which civil society could be internationally accommodated within United Nations processes still remains a puzzle. As in all human relationships, so also amongst States: the strong do better than the weak, the rich better than the poor, the developed better than the developing. This is the case most of all when times are hard. The marked decline in official development assistance, and the failure of most of the strong, the rich and the developed to meet their official development assistance pledges, show that for States, there is no general safety net. If there is one message from the Millennium Summit, and one that is now coming from this Millennium Assembly loud and clear, it is that globalization may be a reality for all, but that it is that no panacea for all — certainly not for the developing world. The benefits of globalization have by-passed much of the developing world. The poorest among us, spanning the continents of Africa, Central America and Asia, have experienced increasing marginalization. There is little opportunity for developing countries to be formative in the shaping of the world economy for the future — in the deliberations that really matter. Thus, although we are leaving the past century and the past millennium behind us, and celebrate their passing, more than half of humanity is still haunted by the old, intractable economic and social tragedies that have been with us since the dawn of time: poverty, illiteracy, ill health, hunger, unemployment, the problems of the young, uncontrolled urbanization and the growth of mega-cities. Among these, poverty alleviation and poverty elimination remain for most of us in the developing world the highest and, in fact, the only, meaningful priority. Poverty degrades humanity and, in an era of abundance and conspicuous consumption, visible in real time across billions of television screens throughout the world, undermines the very foundations 28 necessary for the growth of humane societies and refined governance. The developing world needs to be accorded an adequate formative voice in the formulation of a new development chapter for the twenty-first century. Thus we turn to the United Nations and, in ultimate recourse, as it were, to this General Assembly, under whose active supervisory authority there must be a revival of a comprehensive North-South development dialogue — a dialogue that seems to be fading away. To tell the countless starving and helpless millions that a free global marketplace will show us the way is, I am sorry to say, simply not enough. Resource deprivation over many generations and its debilitating consequences on adequate infrastructural growth has severely damaged the capacity of developing countries to cope with the modern world. A new development chapter must provide for the catastrophic negative contingencies, be they “man- made” or otherwise, including such occurrences as the present surge in the price of oil to the highest levels in a decade that now place crushing burdens on the national economies of developing countries struggling desperately to contend with economic realities. They, like Sri Lanka, can only hope and pray that the oil- producing countries, which are certainly not insensitive to the plight of the developing world, will find it possible in some way to relieve such pressures in the very near future. I should also wish at this juncture in my address to say a word about the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) of the seven States of South Asia — Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka — a body which is deeply committed to the advancement of the economic and social well-being of our peoples, numbering now in the region of 1.25 billion, not merely through national endeavour, but through regional and international cooperation. Sri Lanka, as the current Chair of SAARC, is seeking to implement the programme of activities laid down at the 1991 Colombo summit as best it can in difficult circumstances. The people of our region are deeply committed to the goals of SAARC. They continue to interact vigorously on a wide range of professional, cultural, educational and social activities, notwithstanding the temporary setback to high-level political involvement that SAARC has suffered at this time. We in SAARC are confident that it will not be long before our movement is again able to play its full role in the welfare of our peoples. I have just returned to New York from the International Conference on War-Affected Children, organized so successfully by the Government of Canada and held at Winnipeg. I cannot conclude my address to the General Assembly this year without making at least a brief reference to the abominable crimes that are being committed against young Tamil children in Sri Lanka by the rebel group known as the Tamil Tigers. They have been, and are, forcibly conscripting even 10-year- old children, boys and girls, for battle against the Sri Lankan Army. Some of these children have been programmed into suicide bombers. They are forced to wear cyanide capsules round their necks and to bite on them to evade capture. This wretched practice continues unabated. In 1998, at the invitation of my Government, the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict, Mr. Olara Otunnu, visited Sri Lanka and met some of the Tamil Tiger leaders. They assured him that they would not recruit any person under the age of 17 and would not send into battle any person below the age of 18. A few months ago he stated that since his visit to Sri Lanka there have been continuous reports of the recruitment and the use of children by the Tamil Tigers. The assurance they gave him has been totally dishonoured. In a poignant answer to a question by an interviewer, the Special Representative said this: “Children who become soldiers lose their innocence. Part of the reason why the fighting groups will tend to reach out to children is because, of course, the adults may become disillusioned, they may be killed off, they may run away, so they reach the children who are less able to defend themselves. But there's a more cynical reason than that: children, because they are innocent, can be moulded into the most unquestioning, ruthless tools of warfare, into suicide commandos, into committing the worst atrocities. In other situations, it is ideology — come fight for the homeland, come fight for our ethnic group, come fight for a new society — that may appeal to families and to children. So there 29 are many reasons which facilitate the abuse of children in this way.” I thank the Special Representative for having had the courage to speak out on this important issue. To remain silent in the face of such criminality is to encourage and condone it. It is the duty of all of us who care about the children of the world to rally against the cruelty, brutality and the grievous harm cynically inflicted on them by groups such as the one that abuses them in Sri Lanka. A few months ago, the representative of the United Nations Children's Fund in Sri Lanka told journalists — and I thank him for his statement — that the situation of children in the areas held by the Tamil Tigers had worsened since they gave their assurance to the United Nations Special Representative. Parents have reported that their children have been recruited. It is a serious problem. He observed that until they, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), announce to their own people that they have taken measures to prevent children below 17 years from being recruited, we cannot take their promises seriously. A respected and courageous human rights group in Sri Lanka, consisting mostly of Tamil teachers who used to teach at Jaffna University, have said in a recent report that since last May a fresh child-recruitment campaign has been launched by the Tamil Tigers. According to their report, children as young as 10 years are being forcibly conscripted, age being no consideration as long as the child was able to carry a gun. In recent days and months the international press has focused sharply on the plight of child soldiers in Sri Lanka. A few days ago Sri Lanka deposited its instrument of ratification of the Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This Protocol has noted that the Statute of the International Criminal Court makes conscripting, enlisting or using children in combat a war crime in both international and non- international armed conflicts. It holds non-State actors also accountable for such crimes and it calls upon State parties to cooperate in preventing and combating such crimes. Accordingly, today, in this General Assembly of the United Nations Sri Lanka calls upon all States to ratify this Protocol, and it calls upon the State parties on whose territory the LTTE has offices and front organizations to take strong punitive action against such establishments, and to declare the LTTE a criminal organization, as the LTTE sustains its criminal activity in respect of the use of child soldiers through funds generated on the territories of other State parties, which are obliged to cooperate in terms of the Convention and the Protocol. The Winnipeg Conference ended yesterday with an impassioned plea to the world to move urgently from words to deeds, to save the hundreds of thousands of children who are abused, maimed, displaced, traumatized and killed by war. In our cruel world if anything should stir the conscience of mankind it is surely the plight of these children. Let it not be said that yet again we have failed — failed to hear and heed the anguished cry of children in distress, children on whom adults have inflicted, and continue to inflict, unspeakable cruelty. No, politics cannot divide us on the issue of child soldiers. Massive funds are not required to save them. What is required is the will and the commitment to act of those States which are in a position to act. The Winnipeg appeal is addressed to them. Let us all wholeheartedly support that appeal now so that when the special session of the General Assembly for Follow-up to the World Summit for Children is held here in New York next September, we will be able to adopt practical measures that will finally ensure that children will be forever protected from the ravages of war.   Allow me, Sir, at the outset to congratulate you heartily on your election to the Presidency of this General Assembly. Finland is a close friend and partner within the Nordic community. We wish you success with this challenging task and pledge to you the full support of the Icelandic delegation. The Millennium Declaration provides the commitments of the world community in the new century. To prevent conflicts, maintain international peace and security and make peace an achievable goal at the end of armed conflicts, we need to continue strengthening the United Nations and the international legal system as a whole. Iceland has always supported verifiable arms control and arms reduction measures and will continue to support realistic disarmament proposals aiming at maximum security with a minimum of weapons. It is appalling to note the enormous sums being spent on weapons, while the money could be used to significantly improve the lives of millions. Today, when there is an obvious need to assess the United Nations ability to conduct peacekeeping operations, it has proved extremely important to have a Secretary-General who has such a deep knowledge of the matter through his own experience. I would like to commend the Secretary-General for taking the initiative to ask a panel of prominent experts in the field to assess the situation. I welcome the Brahimi report. Its recommendations should be implemented as soon as possible. Even though my country does not have a military, it has been able to participate in peacekeeping operations. It has done so in the Balkans by providing medical staff, policemen and experts in the fields of law, the media and women's rights. We have noted with interest the recommendations made in the Brahimi report concerning the non-military aspects of peace operations. We will be studying them carefully now that we are in the process of looking into how we can strengthen our contribution to peacekeeping in the future. The report states that expressions of general support in the form of statements and resolutions must be followed up with tangible actions. We will be taking these words of wisdom seriously in our policy-making. In the preparations for the Millennium Assembly, the Secretary-General encouraged Member States to engage more effectively in the international legal framework by acceding to a number of legal instruments. One to which Iceland has decided to accede is the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. The Security Council has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Unfortunately, it has not succeeded in reflecting the tremendous changes in the international arena which have taken place since its establishment. In order to ensure its credibility in years to come, the reform process has to be accelerated. The rules of international law governing the relations between States are now well established; this also applies in the fields of human rights and humanitarian law. These rules set out the rights and obligations of States and individuals. But ground rules do not suffice if it is not possible to enforce them. There are mechanisms to ensure respect and compliance with these rules, such as the General Assembly, the Security Council and peacekeeping missions. As a complement to these mechanisms, an effective international court system should be available to bring those who breach these rules to justice, at the same time serving to deter potential perpetrators. With this in mind, I believe that the greatest achievements towards strengthening the international legal system in recent years have been the establishment of the International Criminal Tribunals for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and for Rwanda and the adoption of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Iceland has ratified the Rome Statute and encourages all other States to do so. I welcome the proposal to include cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe in the agenda of this session of the General Assembly. I had the honour of chairing the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe last year. I am therefore well aware of the important contribution made by the Council to peace and stability in Europe, especially in the field of human rights. The United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Council of Europe and other organizations 14 responded to the serious situation in the Balkans by joining forces and working together to make reconstruction achievable. In Kosovo, the politically motivated and inter- ethnic violence must be stopped. Rogue elements cannot be allowed to destroy possibilities created by the international community. One ethnic group must not be allowed to win at the expense of another. The Kosovars have been provided with a unique opportunity to build a just community in the region — a community where the fundamental freedoms and rights of every individual and minority group are respected. Only by utilizing this opportunity are Kosovars going to be able to build a stable foundation for lasting peace and stability for future generations. The same can be said about similar situations elsewhere in the Balkans, such as in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The international community has taken on an enormous task in building a whole new civic structure within Kosovo. The development of a legal system and free media have been two challenging tasks. The elections to take place in October are also going to be challenging. Hopefully, they can be carried out in an orderly and peaceful manner. It is very important to include women in the political process. In this respect, I would like to commend the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) for the good work carried out in Kosovo, not only in the political field but also in fighting violence against women and in promoting women's participation in economic activities. The importance of human rights in securing long- term stability and security, both within and between countries, cannot be overestimated. It is therefore essential that no compromises be accepted in this field, and our aims should remain high. The Security Council should be commended for discussing the grave humanitarian crisis and security threat posed by the HIV/AIDS epidemic, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, and also for discussing the issue of children and armed conflict. The discussion in the Council has served to concentrate the attention of the international community on these issues and led the way for others to take the measures required. Both issues affect children in a very serious manner. I expect them to feature prominently on the agenda of next year's special session to follow up the World Summit for Children. I also welcome the decision to hold a special session of the General Assembly on the enormous problem of HIV/AIDS and international efforts to combat it. The rights of women were significantly enhanced with the adoption last year of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Iceland has signed the Protocol and is preparing its ratification. I cannot fail to condemn the terrible plight of those women around the world who are still enduring major human rights abuses, including female genital mutilation and trafficking, as well as severe restrictions on their freedom of movement and the right to work. During the Millennium Summit, the Prime Minister of Iceland signed the two Optional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Iceland welcomes their adoption and hopes that they will further secure the human rights of children. We have to put extra effort into working towards the elimination of racial discrimination. It is worrying to note the trend towards increasing racism and xenophobia in certain parts of the world, including Europe. This needs to be fought at all levels. The World Conference to be held in South Africa next year will without doubt play an important role. Iceland welcomes this Conference and feels that, in the light of history, South Africa is a very appropriate venue for it. As reflected in the report of the Secretary- General, “We the peoples”, fighting poverty remains one of the main challenges to the United Nations. People living in poverty do not have the opportunity to exercise many of their fundamental rights and freedoms. They cannot benefit from the possibilities of globalization. We need to reverse the current trend, as decided at the Millennium Summit. But more needs to be done. Globalization and new technologies offer many opportunities to reduce poverty at a faster rate than in the past. We have been strengthening our development cooperation, both bilaterally and multilaterally. At the bilateral level, we have concentrated on a group of African countries with a focus on strengthening their fishing industry and education and health areas, with the potential to positively alter the lives of people in need. On the multilateral level, we will be contributing to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative 15 through the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Most of our decisions are based on compromises, in which each and every one of us has to give a little in order to reach an agreement. It is very important to keep this in mind, not only when we discuss substance, but also when the time comes for us to pay our dues, both to the regular budget and to the peacekeeping budget. It is crucial for the good functioning of this Organization that all Members pay their contributions fully, on time and without any conditions. In recent years, the oceans of the world have received increased attention in the General Assembly. We welcome this development. Iceland's economy is based on the sustainable harvest of living marine resources. The health and responsible stewardship of the oceans are therefore of critical importance to us. Last year, we resolved to improve United Nations coordination in the area of ocean affairs. Towards that end, we established an Informal Consultative Process to discuss the Secretary-General's report on the oceans and the law of the sea. I was pleased with the implementation of this decision of the first Meeting of this Process last spring. However, we must act carefully when seeking to improve our coordination and cooperation in this area. Ocean issues must be addressed at the appropriate level and be consistent with the rights and obligations laid down in the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We must fully respect the sovereign right of States over their natural resources and the competence of existing international organizations. Above all, the integrity of the Convention must be preserved. We must be mindful that the Convention provides the legal framework within which all activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out. The United Nations specialized agencies have an important role to play in promoting the conservation and sustainable use of the oceans. A key area in this respect is marine scientific research. We need more accurate and policy-oriented information on the state of the oceans. Coordination towards that end would be a worthy task for the new Informal Consultative Process on Ocean Affairs. At the onset of a new millennium, it is more pressing than ever before to ensure the access of people in the developing countries, especially in rural areas, to readily available and sustainable energy. Today, about one third of the world's population does not have such access, and this situation is obviously a serious obstacle to the development of these communities. In my country, we have been able to bring sustainable energy to all households in the country. We are sharing our experience and knowledge with the developing countries through the United Nations University Geothermal Training Programme, which is located in Iceland and funded by my Government. The 1992 Earth Summit in Rio created a momentum for building a secure future for humankind and life on Earth under the banner of sustainable development. Soon, world leaders will meet again at a global conference to take stock of the progress made in meeting these challenges, laid down in Agenda 21 and the other Rio agreements. It is indeed true that we have not been able to live up to all the expectations raised in Rio, but we should not fail to acknowledge the progress that we have made. The concept of sustainable development has truly become accepted as a fundamental guiding strategy in environmental and socio-economic affairs. In my own country, which is dependent on fisheries, we believe that we are reaping the benefits of the sustainable-use regime for our fish stocks in the form of a healthy ecosystem and a robust economy. Regional and international efforts to prevent the pollution of the oceans have continued to gather strength and we can expect further efforts, in particular to control pollution from land-based sources. It is my belief that, in charting a course for the future, we should be looking at success stories and learning from them, rather than concentrating on the obstacles we face. Let us be guided by the doers, but not the doom-sayers.“We, the peoples” is a powerful rendition of world affairs and a daunting portrait of life for future generations. It took intellect and diplomatic savoir-faire to state a complex case in such a concise and forceful way. We are grateful to the Secretary-General and his staff for producing it. “We, the peoples” are of course the opening words of the Charter, and I want to take them as a point of departure. Other speakers have done so before me and have argued in favour of a more robust structure for keeping the peace in the world community. They are right. The United Nations role in the area of preventing or limiting armed conflict was conceived as its principal purpose. The Brahimi report has shown how, in spite of that, the United Nations peacekeeping function has in fact become its Achilles heel. The Brahimi recommendations deserve to be implemented — the sooner the better. At present, the Netherlands Government and parliament are debating how to improve our national contribution to peacekeeping. 15 “We, the Peoples” can lead to reflections on a totally different side of the United Nations reality as well. I, for one, would take this opportunity to argue in favour of closer ties between the United Nations and the private sector. In 1945 the world was run by States. The Charter hinges on that very assumption. It covers all aspects of life as they were prevalent at the time, from peace and security to social justice, from economic cooperation to human rights. Despite its ambition, the Charter hardly mentions any other actors besides States. Non- governmental organizations appear in the Charter only once. The private sector is not referred to at all. In other words, the Charter conforms to a model of governance as old as the Peace of Westphalia, a state system going back to the mid-1600s. In order to strategize for the future, we need to ask ourselves: who, in actual fact, runs the world today; where and how are world affairs conducted; and how can we position the United Nations accordingly? The United Nations is made up of Member States. That is fitting and proper. States will be the custodians of foreign relations for a long time to come. But their roles have changed significantly with time. States can no longer be thought of as the hard billiard balls of international relations. Internationalization has altered the concept of sovereignty. Nor are Sates autonomous entities as before, pursuing self-defined national interests. Their actions are now much more shaped by economic pressures, information flows, and population movements. For States, too, globalization is here to stay. Other actors have entered both the domestic and international scenes. Civil society is one. The private sector is another. Since 1945, civil society, made up of non-profit organizations, has blossomed along a wide spectrum, beyond any expectation of the United Nations founding fathers. Many non-governmental organizations operate across national boundaries. At the present time, the United Nations system could never hope to operate properly without the assistance of non-governmental organizations, not to mention normative thinking and advocacy. Non-governmental organizations have acquired access to the United Nations at different levels, and participate in many of its discussions. Although a potent actor on the domestic and international levels, the private sector has been virtually ignored by traditional United Nations diplomacy. The business community, and notably transnational corporations, were viewed by many as the competitor, if not as the enemy of international public interest. Documents critical of multinationals were being issued by the United Nations and the specialized agencies until recently. Confrontation rather than dialogue. I am not contending that there were no grounds for that position: quite the contrary. However, nowadays we see a growing awareness in the business community of the necessity of responsible corporate policies and of a role for private enterprise in the pursuit of interests that go beyond maximizing immediate profits. As an example, I refer to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, in which the pharmaceutical industry closely cooperates with international organizations, Governments and other actors. We need to build on that. Indeed, the time has come to expand the concept of a partnership with the private sector. Why? Two reasons. First of all, the world is up against incredible odds and, secondly, the private sector does exist and wields a lot of power in the international arena. About the odds: take a sustainable future, where elementary laws of ecology must be respected. Not even the most powerful Government can put a stop to global warming — nor all the Member States of the United Nations combined. A sustainable future needs to be pursued in conjunction with industry, civil society and the scientific community. For equitable working conditions, and other forms of social justice, States need to involve the private sector. The same is true for fighting corruption, the spread of small arms, wasting water or AIDS. We have truly entered an era that is very different from the one in which the United Nations was born — an era in which the course of humanity and the quality of life on earth have more and more become a shared responsibility; an era where Governments, the private sector and civil society are drawn ever more closely together. They all have a stake in global governance. The so-called global public goods are a matter for all of them together. The private sector has a stake in the future of the planet, too. Of course, it is here to do business. But no planet, no profit. Companies should find it in their own interest to assume a responsibility equal to their weight in international relations and the influence they have at 16 the domestic level. Chief executive officers, too, want a livable world for their grandchildren. The private sector must be called upon to enter into a responsible corporate partnership in sync with other actors at the international plane. True, the role of each actor needs to be different. Their motivation can remain different, too — as does the legal basis on which they act. But their determination needs to be the same: the determination to secure the longevity of life as we know it and to secure for everyone on the planet an equitable share of its bounty. Different roles, shared responsibility. That concept needs to take root in this Organization as well. The United Nations cannot credibly hope to play a galvanizing role in meeting the challenges of the coming century if it cannot show that its debates and its action platforms reflect the real world outside the conference rooms. If we want to see the United Nations as “unique in world affairs” — as the Millennium report puts it — it must be able to show that all players are on the stage. The Secretary-General's Global Compact could not have come at a more opportune moment. It is the mere beginning of a process, but it is off to a promising start. The Global Compact deserves the active support of the international community, and it deserves to be joined by other multinationals. I do understand the trepidations of some non-governmental organizations who fear that multinational corporations will drape themselves in the United Nations flag and become untouchable in the pursuit of profit. I understand, too, the apprehension felt by diplomats in this hall, who have a lifetime invested in the exclusivity of the State and its monopoly on multilateral discourse. But the Global Compact is not a Trojan horse. And I will go even further. We have given civil society structural access to the United Nations system. By contrast, the access we are giving to the private sector, with the notable exception of the International Labour Organization, has been ad hoc, not structural. In the future, we must create appropriate channels of communication with the private sector, inside this Organization, where they, as well as Governments and civil society, can try and get a hold on the convulsions of our time — a forum where, at the very least, they can deliberate and begin to break down the barriers of mistrust that have divided them for so long. That is the first reason why the United Nations needs to broaden its scope and become more inclusive. The second is the power of the private sector. Many companies have turnovers larger than the national budgets of some Member States, and the same is true for the personal fortunes of some chief executive officers. The relationship between States and the private sector has altered dramatically over time. States were once thought of as bulwarks against harmful economic impact from abroad. Economic weight was viewed as a trump card in the power play among nations. Today, States are increasingly serving as instruments for adjusting domestic policy to the realities of the present-day world economy. They have become intermediaries between the world economy, with its own structure of power, and domestic societies. This brings up the question of where world affairs are being conducted and how they have caused a shift in the style of diplomacy. Economic globalization has shifted the focus of attention to forums other than the United Nations here in New York, notably to the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the World Trade Organization and, on a regional level, the European Union. Policies are tested in the margins of the World Economic Forum in Davos or decided elsewhere. Brussels has become a hub of world affairs. That focus has brought on a different cast of players than in the days of Talleyrand and Metternich. Foreign Ministers now work shoulder to shoulder not only with development ministers, but also with finance and trade ministers, as well as with central bankers. International affairs, whether we like it or not, are increasingly about economics. Forging a relationship with the private sector is therefore indispensable if the United Nations wants to preserve its relevance over the long haul. The multilateral system, for its part, must seek closer ties with other centres of power and with the business community. Mr. Kofi Annan has been vigorously pursuing closer relations with all these various forums, and we encourage him to do more of the same. Responsible corporate partnership is also about protecting the weak. The United Nations was set up not only to guarantee peace and security, but also to secure freedom from want. Despite its obvious advantages, globalization is leaving too many victims by the wayside. The gap between the rich and the poor continues to widen, and the poor suffer the most, in war and in peace. Meanwhile, the private sector wields 17 a great deal of power in its decisions as to where it will buy, sell and invest. Those decisions may bear directly on the quality of life in many developing countries. Even though the odds are staggering, the United Nations system can make a difference in reducing poverty, gender inequality and child and maternal mortality. But it can make a difference only from a position of strength and from a platform shared by other actors at the international level: from a position of shared responsibility. The Millennium Summit has declared poverty eradication the United Nations number one priority. We applaud that. But fighting poverty is not only a moral imperative, as it always has been; it has also become an economic one. That is another reason for the United Nations to become more inclusive of the private sector. The Secretary-General's report (A/54/2000), “We the peoples”, duly poses the question of how to take the United Nations forward. Whatever the way forward, it needs to be a bold one. For too long we have been remoulding old ideas. While doing so, we have kept the United Nations on a very short leash, hardly allowing it to stray off the beaten path. More of the same is not enough. In other words, the United Nations is bound to miss its cue if we, the peoples, pursue our business as usual. The future will pass us by. The alternative is an avenue that is much more ambitious. It amounts to using the United Nations system as a vehicle for the development of a new vision of world politics, a vision for the “post- Westphalian” era. In such a vision, present trends would be given legitimacy and a conceptual framework. In such a vision, the principle of non- intervention yields to the defence of human rights; sovereignty is further reappraised; there is room for civil society and the private sector; and economics are also held responsible for social and development goals. Such is the road less travelled, but the only one that can make all the difference.Allow me to begin by congratulating you, Sir, on behalf of my Government and on my own behalf, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I also wish to congratulate, in particular, the outgoing President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for the wise and dynamic manner in which he carried out his mandate. I would also like to express our appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his unselfish efforts to make the United Nations an increasingly effective instrument, capable of dealing with the demands of our times and finding and implementing solutions for the most pressing problems of the world. Just a few days ago, during the Millennium Summit, the leaders of the world defined the priorities of the United Nations for the twenty-first century and expressed the need to adapt its structure for the demands and challenges of the future. During that event of transcendental importance for the lives of the people of this planet, the indispensable and irreplaceable character of the United Nations in international relations was reaffirmed. Member States reiterated their promise to maintain and preserve the United Nations as a privileged mechanism for international dialogue and cooperation in the name of peace and well-being of all peoples. Indeed, given the role of the United Nations as guarantor of peace and well-being of the peoples, it is urgent that we begin the implementation of actions aimed at adapting its internal structure to new world realities. This will permit the Organization to deal rapidly and effectively with the main problems of the world and avoid having its members resort to solutions outside the established framework of its main organs namely, the General Assembly and the Security Council. In recent years, the United Nations sought, through world summits, to find global solutions with broad international consensus for the many misfortunes that afflict humanity, such as local wars, degradation of the environment, violations of human rights and inadequate social development, among others. Various plans of action were outlined. However, the problems 12 they sought to attenuate or resolve persist. Many have even become worse. A revision of the mechanism for implementing decisions is needed, through a revitalization and strengthening of the United Nations system, particularly that of its principal bodies, such as the Security Council. From our point of view, that body requires greater internal democracy, and its composition should reflect the current membership in the Organization and its geographic diversity. We think that, in this way, its decision-making would be faster and its performance in the area of peacekeeping and international security more effective. The persistence of a climate of insecurity and instability in a number of regions of the world cannot be attributed solely to internal causes; it also stems from weakness in the international security system. A reflection of this are the deficiencies that still exist, for example, in the early warning system and in the peacekeeping operations mechanisms. These have not always corresponded to the desired objectives, either because the peacekeeping missions sometimes are not sent in a timely manner, or because at times, they are not provided with adequate human, material and financial resources. Sometimes this is due to the ambiguity in the mission mandate itself. We recognize that the effectiveness of action in the area of peace and international security does not depend only on United Nations activities. There has to be renewed commitment on the part of each and every State. On this matter, I would like to applaud the recent publication of the Brahimi report. It is our understanding that the adoption of measures at the national, regional and international levels should be made part of this commitment in order to eliminate the sources of financing for local wars. In the particular case of the African continent, the continent most affected by the scourge of war, the illicit trade in diamonds has been the primary source of support for wars incited by some rebel groups with the objective of overturning democratically elected regimes. Some new initiatives have been launched with the aim of reducing access of these conflict diamonds to the international market. My Government supports these initiatives and will provide any cooperation necessary for their implementation. Another serious issue affecting international security is the circulation and transfer of small arms that flow to areas of conflict by way of rebel groups. This takes place with the connivance of certain Governments and networks of transnational organized crime. The lack of international legal instruments capable of controlling transactions of these arms is stimulating the creation of actual arms markets, above all in Africa. This is leading to an increased number of conflicts and making their resolution even more difficult. According to United Nations data, the effects of these arms on civil populations are shocking. They have already resulted in more deaths than the two world wars combined. In fact, the issue of conflict diamonds and the proliferation of small arms assumes special importance for Angola. It is through the sale of illegally mined diamonds that the rebels led by Jonas Savimbi reconstituted their war machine, with which they then undertook a large-scale military campaign aimed at taking power. That war campaign led to a procession of death and destruction, and it is the principal reason for the economic instability in Angola. This scenario is repeating itself in other regions of Africa and the world. For this reason, a solution is urgently required. The economic and social development and subsequent eradication of poverty, full respect for human rights, democracy and good governance can only be achieved in absolute conditions of peace and stability. It is in this context that my Government established, as a priority, the restoration of definitive peace in Angola. As a result of its efforts to attain this objective, the general situation in Angola has significantly improved. It is for this reason that today we are more confident than ever of a future of peace, development and prosperity. Indeed, the war has ceased to have the same intensity as it did several years ago, and the conflict itself is moving progressively towards an end. The political and military measures undertaken by the Government have significantly reduced the ability of the rebels to wage war. These measures have also allowed the Government to resume control over nearly the entire country. More than 12,000 rebel military personnel have abandoned their arms and joined the efforts of reconstruction and national reconciliation. Those who persist in waging war have less and less space, and their activities are limited today to isolated armed attacks against civilian targets, the objective being to destroy and loot the people's property. 13 The military measures undertaken by the Government represent a necessary and legitimate recourse designed to stop the violence unleashed by the rebels of UNITA, which put in jeopardy the very existence of the Angolan democratic system. However, despite the fact that the ongoing measures aimed at the total control of our national borders and the elimination of the remaining pockets of criminal armed groups are having a positive impact in the search for peace, they do not constitute our only option for the resolution of armed conflict. Simultaneously, we will continue to implement other actions aimed at guaranteeing the total implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, which for us continues to be a valid basis for the resolution of the Angolan problem. In this context, we reiterate our readiness to continue to integrate in our society all those who choose to abandon the option of war. The international community, and the United Nations in particular, still has an active role to play in the process of restoring peace in Angola, through the continued implementation and strengthening of sanctions against the rebels led by Jonas Savimbi. The recent nomination by the Secretary-General of the members of the mechanism to monitor the application of sanctions against the UNITA rebels, in accordance with Security Council resolution 1295 (2000), will contribute to greater international vigilance regarding possible violations. It will deny bases of support to the armed rebellion in Angola. We hope that all Members of the United Nations will extend their cooperation to that body. The significant improvement of the situation in Angola, however, has not brought an immediate end to the effects of war on the lives of the people. The humanitarian situation continues to be critical, and for that reason we appeal to the international community to increase its assistance to the needy populations. The positive evolution of the situation is not limited to the politico-military field; it has also carried over into the macroeconomic sector. Angola continues on the path of economic reforms which have earned the confidence of international financial institutions. This progress translated to the recent signature of an agreement with the International Monetary Fund relating to the implementation of a monitored programme. We hope that the international community will contribute substantially through the investment of capital during the recovery phase of the Angolan economy in supporting stability and growth. Angola adopted legislation to protect foreign investment by providing incentives and guarantees. The international situation continues to be characterized by violence and tension in various parts of the world; they constitute a serious threat to peace and stability. Angola is seriously concerned by the continuation of the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in view of the grave repercussions for stability and development in the central region of Africa. The situation in that neighbouring country, which shares more than 2,000 kilometres of common border with Angola, remains quite volatile and complex. It runs the risk of a serious worsening if appropriate measures are not taken. The resolution of the Congolese conflict must come about, fundamentally, through the implementation of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement. In spite of its shortcomings, which perhaps call for a new reading, it continues to be the only basis acceptable to all the parties involved. It respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Invading forces should withdraw completely from Congolese territory and cease immediately their support for the destabilization of that country. These conditions, in addition to the inter- Congolese dialogue, founded on a realistic base including the unequivocal recognition of the authority of the Government in Kinshasa, will be crucial for the success of the peace process. Angola reiterates its commitment to continue to make the necessary efforts, together with the mediator, President Frederick Chiluba of Zambia, and other parties to the Lusaka Agreement, until a way out of the conflict is found. In Sierra Leone, the prosecution of hostilities continues to delay the pacification of the country. Angola supports regional initiatives aimed at reactivating the peace process and condemns the attacks against United Nations personnel and forces. We support steps aimed at bringing to international justice the principal parties responsible for the atrocities committed against the people of that country. In Somalia, the progress reached at the national conference led to the re-establishment of some national institutions and moved the country closer to peace. 14 Angola encourages the continuation of these efforts and hopes that in the near future Somalia may be able to reassume, de facto, its rightful place in the international community. In the Horn of Africa, the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has undergone some positive movement following the signing of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement in Algiers. We hope that the two parties honour their commitments under the accord and create conditions for the establishment of good- neighbourly relations and cooperation. Similarly, we continue to be optimistic regarding the resolution of the conflict in Western Sahara through the implementation of the United Nations peace plan. Angola is following with particular attention the situation in Zimbabwe, our fraternal country, and supports the efforts of the Government of that country to find a just and fair solution to the land problem that was inherited from the colonial period. In this context, we share and fully support the position expressed by the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the Non-Aligned Movement on land reform in Zimbabwe. In the Middle East, the question of Palestine constitutes the fundamental cause of conflict in the region. Angola reaffirms its support for the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination. The resolution of this conflict must encompass a political compromise between the parties involved and the effective implementation of relevant Security Council resolutions and other understandings reached. Less than a year ago, the people of East Timor finally succeeded in exercising their right to self- determination. Angola feels pleased and compensated by this historic accomplishment, since it was one of the countries that fought in the United Nations and other international forums for the right of the Timorese people to freely choose their own destiny. The international community, and the United Nations in particular, which is responsible for the management of the transition period, cannot permit the current climate of violence, provoked by the militias with the objective of impeding the independence of the territory, to impose itself over the will of a people that has already suffered for decades the scourge of colonialism and foreign domination. Angola strongly condemns these acts of violence, which have resulted in great loss of life, destruction and chaos. Angola appeals to the Security Council to take appropriate steps to ensure its immediate cessation. In the past two years, the world economy has registered a clear recovery since the crisis that shook Asia. The industrial economies and the so-called emerging markets are becoming stronger and achieving considerable rates of growth. However, the present world economic order continues to be marked by sharp distortions between North and South. While the North enjoys unprecedented prosperity, the South continues to suffer poverty and social injustice. Contributing to these ills are restrictive economic measures imposed unilaterally. The embargo imposed against Cuba is one example its principal victims are the most vulnerable strata of its population. We will continue to support the lifting of the embargo. The international goal of reducing by one half, by the year 2015, the percentage of the world population living in extreme poverty will require strenuous efforts, above all by the wealthiest countries and international financial institutions. In particular, it will be necessary to relieve the burden of external debt, whose service payments alone absorb a large part of the financial resources of developing countries. At the same time, steps will be necessary to attenuate the negative impact of globalization. Despite the fact that it has strengthened the spirit of community in international economic relations, globalization has benefited wealthy countries more than underdeveloped countries. The structural adjustment programmes under way in many developing countries should take account of real necessities and specifics, because many of the measures imposed by the international financial institutions have caused serious difficulties, above all of a social nature. To conclude my remarks, I would like to call attention to the need to pay more attention to the economic situation of the African continent. This should be done in such a way as to facilitate its integration into the world market, particularly through the transfer of technology and increasing productive investment.   I join other delegations in congratulating Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland on his election to preside over the proceedings of the fifty- fifth session of the General Assembly, and on Finland's able service as Co-Chairperson of the Millennium Summit. My delegation's appreciation is extended also to the outgoing President, the Foreign Minister of Namibia. I take this opportunity also to express the distinct pleasure of the Government of Barbados at the fact that another member of the fraternity of small island developing States, Tuvalu, has recently taken its place at our table. Five short years ago, the United Nations celebrated its fiftieth anniversary with a massive gathering of world leaders not much different from the event which engaged our attention for the better part of last week. Then as now, the report card was weighed; then as now, amid critical assessment of its deficiencies and calls for bold reform, the Organization's continued validity was ultimately recognized and its unique and inherently positive role in multilateral relations emphatically supported. We hope that this time the Millennium Summit will have served as more than just a familiar echo reverberating, unchanged, at five-year intervals through these chambers, magnified among the myriad murmurs that linger from other occasions of 25 specialized summitry. For there is nothing inherently magical about the passing of a millennium, or a decade, or even a quinquennium. Indeed, the proliferation of plus fives in this place is enough to confound the entire fraternity of mathematicians and accountants. And none of us is totally confident that the final reckoning will leave us on the plus side of the ledger. On the contrary, it seems, sadly, that we have become consumed by the show, not the substance; the process, not the result; the plan, not the implementation. In this, the last year of the second Christian millennium, as we review the progress of the peoples of the planet over the past century, we find that, on balance, humankind has not done very well. In many fundamental ways, the twentieth century has not lived up to the promises and expectations that an era marked by such far-reaching technological change and innovation should have produced. In contrast, it has ushered in a time of unprecedented violence and suffering, visited mainly upon innocent civilians by international and internal warfare fought with increasingly sophisticated and deadly weaponry. The end of the ideological divide has not been followed by an era of peace and development, as we had all anticipated, but by a horrendous upsurge in genocidal, religious and ethnic conflicts. The threat of nuclear proliferation and biological warfare has only partially receded, and the scourges of terrorism, narco- trafficking and transnational crime continue to scar innocent lives and threaten democratic governance. While a few thousand souls live in obscene luxury, half of the world's population subsist on less than two dollars a day, and millions remain desperately poor, with no prospects of bequeathing a better life to their children. The new plague of the twentieth century, AIDS, continues its decimation, with disproportionate effects upon the poor in the developing world. In sum, our modern civilization has not evolved into a caring and enlightened species, but rather into one that has often abused the positive aspects of its heightened capacity and modernization to the detriment of humanity and of the earth. We well know that the United Nations is not, and cannot be, the panacea for all the problems of the twenty-first century, but we are convinced that it can and should serve as a mechanism through which the Governments of the world, and their people, can work in common cause to find real solutions to the most pressing global problems and challenges. In our increasingly interdependent world, there is little chance of success for unilateral action. This applies equally to the Organization's mandates for the maintenance of international peace and security and those for the promotion of economic development and social progress. Since the Organization's creation in 1945, the international landscape has changed considerably. Internecine and intra-territorial conflicts based on religious and ethnic differences have escalated, and the United Nations has seen its peacekeeping role used more in the last decade than ever before. At the same time, the effectiveness of that peacemaking and peacekeeping capacity has been called into question by international public opinion and Governments alike. We continue to expect miracles of the United Nations in ending the bloodshed in the most troubled corners of the world, but we seldom provide it with the tools, the financing and the appropriate mandate to allow for timely and decisive action. Without this support, United Nations peacekeeping efforts will remain reactive, and not preventive. One of the most complex issues currently being debated in the context of an enhanced role for the international community in the maintenance of international peace and security is the clash between the opposing tenets of sovereignty and humanitarian intervention. My delegation believes that this is a matter of such fundamental importance that it requires in-depth discussion and the elaboration, by broad-based consensus, of clear new rules under international law. For while we do not believe that the international community can stand idly by in the face of massive and genocidal violations of the human rights of citizens by power-hungry tyrants, we must at the same time ensure that any international response to such situations is not influenced primarily by the national ambitions of third States. Decisions must be based on clearly defined criteria, informed by an objective verification of the facts. Action must be confined to the saving of lives, not the overthrowing of Governments. Humanitarian intervention, however compelling the circumstances, must never be used as a guise for unwarranted interference in internal State governance. The balance sheet for the twentieth century in the area of economic and social development is similarly mixed. While the United Nations, through its 26 specialized agencies and programmes, has made great strides in the fight against hunger, disease and deprivation, that progress has not been evenly distributed. The goal of the alleviation and ultimate eradication of poverty remains largely unfulfilled, with desperate consequences for the growing numbers of the world's population who live in extreme poverty. Structural adjustment, the errant compass of the so- called lost decade of the 1980s, has taken its heavy social toll. So, too, has the burden of debt, which, despite the promise of debt forgiveness for the least developed countries and special initiatives for the highly indebted poor countries, continues to constrain future economic prospects for a large number of developing countries. At the same time, the decline in official development assistance has had a direct impact on the most vulnerable sectors of society I refer to women, children, the elderly and the infirm. The Secretary-General has challenged the international community to set a target for the halving of the numbers of the population living in extreme poverty by 2015. For this to be achieved, there is an urgent need for a higher level of political will and a shared commitment to create the necessary social and economic framework to enable the poor and dispossessed to redirect their lives. Education remains the most powerful tool for ensuring social progress and the betterment of living standards for the underprivileged. It is therefore one of the most disappointing truths of this closing century that the international community has failed in its collective endeavour to eradicate illiteracy, especially among children. Although in the developing world the adult literacy rate has increased by half, from 48 per cent in 1970 to 72 per cent in 1998, the information revolution now threatens to create a new category of functional illiterates. The eradication of illiteracy and the provision of at least primary basic schooling are eminently achievable goals. As an engine of social mobility, education stands as the most important component in ensuring the success of an individual and of a society. It is the greatest social liberator and facilitator of peace and is one of the fundamental pillars supporting democracy, competitiveness and social stability. The development of my country, Barbados, provides ample proof of how education can empower a people and foster upward mobility for each succeeding generation. Education has always been one of the highest priorities for the Government of Barbados and a major source of budget expenditure. We are one of the very few countries where access to education is free at point of delivery, mandatory up to 16 years of age and universal at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. Currently, the Government of Barbados is embarked upon an ambitious programme within the schools known as EDUTECH 2000, which aims to ensure that every child is equipped to function successfully in the new information age. As we approach the new century, the world faces probably one of the most disastrous threats to its sustainability, a threat which has ended the lives of an unimaginable number of persons, crippled the economies and threatened the productive workforce of southern Africa, and taken an increasing toll in Asia and in my own subregion, the Caribbean. I am referring to the pandemic of AIDS/HIV. Current estimates indicate that there are over 33.4 million people worldwide who are now infected with the disease. In the Caribbean region alone, that figure numbers some 330,000, which is an astounding and frightening statistic to contemplate for a country like Barbados, with a population of 267,000 people. Our region has the highest prevalence per capita in the western hemisphere, and a prevalence second only to that of sub-Saharan Africa. It has been reported by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) that, every day, there are 16,000 new HIV infections and that 95 per cent of all reported AIDS cases occur in the developing world. The AIDS pandemic is, in our view, the gravest economic and social crisis facing the global community as we enter the twenty-first century. Many of our leaders and policy-makers are only now beginning to grasp the enormity of the problem and to fully appreciate the devastating impact which AIDS is having, and will continue to have, on the economic sustainability of every country, from the smallest, most undeveloped nation to the largest, most economically viable State, because AIDS is not only a human and a social tragedy it is also an economic one. It attacks our present workforce not only in its productive, but also in its reproductive capacity, thus simultaneously decimating the economic potential of two generations. It is a sobering reality that AIDS is now the leading cause of death among young men in the Caribbean, and it is projected that the disease may cause a decline in 27 the region's gross domestic product by as much as 4 to 6 per cent over the next decade. We cannot tackle this grave crisis solely on the basis of current strategies and financial flows. Containing the spread of AIDS and dealing with its economic impact is an immediate priority which will require a major commitment of human and financial resources. In this regard, I am pleased to note the serious attention now being given to the crisis by the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Bank and other international financial institutions. Just yesterday in Barbados, a major conference was convened under the auspices of the World Bank, UNAIDS, the Pan American Health Organization/WHO, the United Nations Development Programme, the Caribbean Community and the Canadian International Development Agency to bring together high-level Caribbean health, education, economic development and labour-policy makers to map out a new crisis strategy for the Caribbean region. Barbados applauds the recommendations of the Secretary-General that the United Nations should adopt as an explicit goal the reduction of HIV-infection rates in persons 15 to 24 years of age by 25 per cent within the most affected countries before the year 2005 and by 25 per cent globally by 2010. The United Nations must make AIDS education and research a priority for the coming century. Determined leadership is needed to persuade Governments and international pharmaceutical companies that a partnership must be developed to combat the disease, both through research and through the provision of drugs at reasonable cost to those who are most in need. The trafficking in and abuse of illegal drugs have paralysed the development of many of our societies. They have also eroded the productivity of the work force and led to social discord, violence and a conspicuous erosion of values and respect for the rule of law. The countries of the Caribbean have not remained untouched by this affliction, both as transhipment and, more recently, sadly, as consuming States. In the fight against this menace, the United Nations Drug Control Programme (UNDCP) has played a crucial role and its subregional office in Barbados deserves special mention for its active support for our own efforts. In Barbados, UNDCP assistance has been invaluable in the establishment of the Integrated Drug Programme through our domestic National Council on Substance Abuse and also in facilitating our community outreach efforts. Of particular note too, has been its role in the establishment of an Anti-Money Laundering Authority in Barbados. As a small island developing State, Barbados is very aware that the natural environment performs for us free basic services without which human beings could not survive. At the same time, certain industrial and technological advances have threatened the biodiversity of many of the small island developing States. Therefore, for ecological reasons and for reasons of sovereignty and sustainable development, Barbados, on behalf of the Association of Caribbean States, last year launched an initiative leading to the adoption of resolution 54/225 on promoting an integrated management approach to the Caribbean Sea area in the context of sustainable development. We are grateful for the recognition by the General Assembly of the efforts of the Caribbean to protect and preserve our most precious resource. The functions of the Caribbean Sea are many and multi-layered. It is the source of our food, it is the main attraction which drives our tourism markets and it is our primary and most reliable link with the outside world. The destruction that would be caused if there were an accident involving nuclear waste or oil in our waters would be beyond catastrophic and it would take centuries for our environment to fully recover. We look forward to continued assistance from the international community in helping us to achieve the objectives of that resolution to maintain and protect this, our most vital natural resource. It remains the ultimate goal of the region to have the Caribbean Sea recognized as a special area within the context of sustainable development. In this spirit, Barbados also welcomes the newly established United Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Ocean Affairs and intends to be an active participant in the consultative process. We welcome the efforts of the General Assembly to address the problems of over-exploitation of living marine resources and the degradation of the marine environment. The collective efforts of our Governments to alleviate poverty and disease and to help our human capital to take full advantage of the opportunities for 28 economic and social advancement take place within the parameters of a challenging new international order. Naturally, I refer to the phenomenon of globalization. Globalization is not entirely new. It has existed in various incarnations among trading nations throughout history. What makes the modern incarnation different, however, is the manner in which the accompanying information revolution is making possible the integration of trade, investment, finance, production and services across national boundaries. What also distinguishes it is the philosophy of multilateralism, which offers all countries, developed and developing, a say at least in theory in shaping the rules which will henceforth govern international economic transactions. Nor is globalization as a concept inherently negative. The precepts of expanding market access, trade liberalization, increased technological advancement and more efficient and effective mechanisms of manufacturing and agriculture are all positive elements. It is in the rigid application of these elements, however, and their application without regard to the social dimension of development, that distortions have arisen which threaten to widen further the income gap between the developed and the developing worlds. I reiterate that the true challenge of the new multilateralism will be to ensure that globalization does not become an instrument of oppression for the peoples of the developing world, but, rather, becomes a means of offering a better life to all of our peoples. In our efforts to sensitize the developed world to the need for adequate transitional measures for developing countries and for recognition of the special vulnerabilities of small economies, Barbados has frequently pointed to the fact that our Caribbean countries are being asked to undertake in 10 years a process which was carried out by the advanced industrialized societies over a period of more than 40 years, spread over eight rounds of multilateral trade negotiations between 1947 and 1994. In this regard, we have emphasized that, however clinically sound a procedure might be, the compression of its application into too short a time period can often be a fatal therapy. One of the greatest essential inequalities of the contemporary global economy is that, while the developed world was allowed an extended period over which to properly phase in trade liberalization, to its benefit, smaller, less endowed societies with less scope to absorb the shocks of adjustment are expected to make a potentially beneficial adjustment over an incredibly short period of time. It would not have worked for the developed world; it will not now work for the developing, and is in fact the consideration which argues the case for longer phase-in periods to apply the changes in the global trading regime. Barbados is not opposed to globalization. We have already indeed begun the process of restructuring our economy and repositioning our society to meet that challenge. But our efforts, we believe, must be met by a similar display of good faith on the part of the World Trade Organization, which must, as my Government has repeatedly stated, review, repair and reform itself, adopt an ideology that is developmental and embrace a developmental agenda that is progressive and balanced in its substance, its processes and its outcomes. That display of good faith is also necessary in promoting constructive and mutually beneficial dialogue between the industrialized countries and their developing country partners on the crucial matter of the regulation of international financial centres in their jurisdictions. My country has spoken extensively in other forums about our serious concerns over the unilateral manner in which the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has proceeded on its so-called harmful tax competition initiative, and on the real motives underlying this unfortunate move. The setting of international rules in the area of financial services cannot properly be done by a grouping of 29 countries to the exclusion of all other interested parties. In this age of enlightened multilateralism there is no place for the application of unilateral, extra-territorial solutions to international economic developments. On balance, we must not allow our frustration at the many missed opportunities to obscure the fact that the twentieth century has produced much that is positive. As we look forward, in the words of the Prime Minister of Barbados, the Right Honourable Owen Arthur: We face the prospect that the simultaneous operation of the enormous power of technological change, the dismantling of barriers to the movement of output, capital, ideas and skills, and the emergence of rules-based, consensus-driven institutions of global scope will create a new global society that is capable of affording development to all, and of putting the scourge of poverty behind us for ever. We will leave the twentieth century and enter the twenty-first conscious of the dangers, but excited by the prospects.I wish to extend to you, Mr. President, my sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, the Millennium Assembly. We are confident that your expertise and knowledge of international issues are an outstanding asset that will enrich the deliberations of this session and help the Assembly reach a successful conclusion. We assure you of our readiness to cooperate with you in fulfilling the objectives to which we all aspire. I wish to extend our gratitude and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the friendly Republic of Namibia, for the successful manner in which he steered the work of the previous session. That session was marked by a genuine desire to enhance and reinvigorate the work of the General Assembly. I would also like to take this opportunity to express our warmest appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his strenuous efforts and commendable endeavours to promote the role of the United Nations and the development of its organs, in order to cope with expectations attached to the Organization in the third millennium. The Sultanate of Oman welcomes the accession of the Republic of Tuvalu to United Nations membership. We hope that its membership will enrich the efforts of the international community to reach the noble goals of this important international forum in a manner that satisfies the hopes and aspirations of all peoples of the world. Our heads of State and Government have already described our main concerns and preoccupations during 18 the Millennium Summit. They perceptively identified a number of lofty values and principles that will guide present and future generations towards secure and stable living conditions based on cooperation and peace. If this goal is to be achieved, we must remain fully committed to it. We bid farewell to a century, the memory of which includes a host of calamities and human suffering, due to both natural and man-made causes. That century was also marked by many bold and visionary initiatives that greatly benefited humanity. This stage of the third millennium is characterized by great technological progress that has opened vast horizons for development and prosperity. Yet the emerging international order, commonly called globalization, has created and increased economic, social and political disparities at both the international and national levels. Globalization presents many concerns and challenges to developing countries, sometimes with unpredictable results. This is a real hindrance to the growth and progress of developing countries, limiting the effectiveness of their economic integration into a globalized economy. We in the Sultanate of Oman support globalization. However, present indications and approaches, stemming from the World Trade Organization, point toward wealthy countries banding together with the aim of using that Organization as a tool to advance their own interests, to open the markets of developing countries for their own trade and to deplete natural resources of developing countries, regardless of any negative economic and social impact. One of the most important factors that led to the failure of the Seattle Conference to achieve its expected conclusions was the aggregation of about 20 countries within the Organization attempting to impose their philosophies on the entire world. This conduct is based on an old doctrine of discriminatory policies and selectivity, which insinuates the presence of hidden disputes among various countries. If the World Trade Organization were to be transformed into a wrestling arena, globalization and free trade would not then be able to meet the needs of developing countries. Furthermore, if developing countries are to survive and to uphold the basic rights of their citizens, they must obtain their fair share of the fruits of globalization. It is necessary to enact laws and regulations and to honour agreements in an equal manner that applies to all, because the dominance of minority law contradicts the principles of good governance. Therefore, it is incumbent upon us to devise new measures to assure the utilization of ever- growing technological progress so as to achieve prosperity and development for all. The international economy continues to prosper after the setback of the 1997-1998 recession, following the economic crash of emerging markets. We need to redouble our efforts in order to avoid recurrence of this. When the G-8 countries met in Okinawa, Japan, they were obliged to consider the problems of the developing countries. The financial assistance offered by the G-8 was itself vivid proof that advanced information technologies are designed in such a manner that they can be monopolized by some and not accessed by others, except with great difficulty and at colossal cost. However, we still welcome some of the decisions of the Okinawa Summit, particularly the financial assistance pledged to combat certain debilitating diseases. The decision of the G-8 to invite the Group of 77, for the first time, to its deliberations was not merely a ceremonial event. It made the vast disparity that exists between developed and developing countries all the more tangible. The Okinawa Summit addressed the problem of debt, which we believe should be totally abolished, and reviewed the policies of the International Monetary Fund and international financial mechanisms. Among those policies, the fluctuation of international currencies in particular has created difficult economic conditions for developed countries, let alone for countries with small economies that have to trade their resources for hard currency. The stumble of the Asian economies occurred because of the power of the free market, and largely because of currency instability. The prosperity achieved by the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) during decades of dedicated work evaporated. Developing countries therefore have every right to take all necessary precautions against the recurrence of a similar situation. Together with a number of other countries, the Sultanate of Oman has played a constructive role in establishing and launching the Indian Ocean Rim Association for Regional Cooperation. It has done so because the countries of the Indian Ocean possess natural resources and enjoy a geographic location 19 between three continents and because it is convinced of the importance of that region as a vital economic vein for all its member States and their peoples. The launching of this new Association to join the many regional economic groupings that exist in the world today is a manifestation of the firm desire of its member States to promote such a grouping, which enjoys huge potential and looks forward to creating a huge market. Based on my country's belief in the importance of regional cooperation as a means to propel the wheels of development and exchange expertise in different fields, we are working on an agreement to establish a regional cooperation group for fisheries in the Indian Ocean. We hope that that initiative will soon see the light of day, thereby bringing about many benefits in the service of regional stability and development. In this context, we look forward to a pragmatic translation of the objectives of the General Assembly Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace. Since the dawn of the Omani renaissance, on 23 July 1970, we in the Sultanate of Oman have embraced peace and dialogue as basic principles. We are convinced that dialogue is the natural foundation upon which all forms of conflict between States and peoples can be resolved. Throughout history, mankind has aspired to enhance confidence on the basis of agreed creative ideas that deepen and widen common interests and mutual benefits. We believe that dialogue, rather than conflict and confrontation, will always remain the surest path to security and stability. The tripartite Camp David summit on the peace process in the Middle East was an extremely significant political step and a display of unique courage by the summit participants. The summit imposed upon itself the task of discussing and negotiating the fundamental issues of a final settlement in an unprecedented and distinguished manner, particularly with regard to the future of Al-Quds Al- Sharif. We express our admiration for, and appreciation of, the historic role and great efforts made by the President of the United States, Bill Clinton. Despite the fact that the summit did not produce a final agreement between Palestine and Israel, it nevertheless opened the door for dialogue on the most complex issues. Significant progress has been achieved on those issues, and the summit established an important understanding of the true scope of peace and the spiritual and emotional sentiments attached to it. It is now vital to conclude an agreement that will lay the cornerstone for lasting peace. In our view, there has been tangible and clear progress regarding the positions and claims of each party as well as their capability to complete the negotiations. We are confident that the continuation of negotiations and contacts between Palestinians and Israelis, on all levels, is the proper and responsible way to reach the desired objective of establishing a just, comprehensive and lasting peace. We look forward with confidence to a second round of negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis, with the continued sponsorship of the United States. Time has bestowed upon all parties a historic opportunity to put in place a solid foundation for peace. We reiterate our full support to the Palestinian people and their rights to self-determination on their land and to establish an independent Palestinian State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. In order to strengthen the pillars of peace and security in the region, there is no other sovereignty possible in Al- Quds Al-Sharif except that of the Palestinian State. We expect the State of Israel to understand this fact, which means that the sovereignty of the State of Palestine over Al-Quds Al-Sharif would also allow Israelis full freedom of access to worship and conduct their rituals in peace and security. We strongly support the position of the sisterly Syrian Arab Republic concerning the restoration of its land to the line of 4 June 1967. We encourage Israel to resume negotiations on this important track in accordance with legitimate international principles and resolutions, particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the principle of land for peace. Israel should not feel exposed to security threats in the future because a peace founded on those principles, whether that peace be with Syria, Palestine or Lebanon, will build an effective relationship and partnership that will serve the purposes of security and stability. This, by itself, is one of the most important guarantees of mutual security and stability, especially if it is based on economic development within the context of globalization. Despite all serious international and regional efforts to alleviate the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq, the overall situation in Iraq continues to deteriorate as a result of the economic embargo imposed on that country over the last 10 years. 20 Therefore, we call for the establishment of a mechanism to end the siege and to lift the embargo that has undoubtedly done great harm to the people of Iraq. Despite the fact that sanctions regime were intended as a political mechanism to guarantee that Governments fulfil their commitments in accordance with United Nations resolutions, that mechanism has now become a weapon that harms the basic rights of peoples and societies. This clearly contradicts the letter and spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Accordingly, we call upon the Security Council to adopt new policies and effective mechanisms that will relieve the suffering imposed on States such as Iraq, Libya and the Sudan. The Security Council, in accordance with its responsibilities as enshrined in the Charter, should play a positive and unifying role in the maintenance of international security and stability, with the aim of developing new vision, for economic globalization. The mechanisms available to the Security Council with regard to Iraq are no longer positive tools. United Nations inspectors have exerted substantial efforts to eliminate weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and have destroyed such known weapons. This could represent sufficient grounds to review the situation once again and determine how to end this tragedy. New mechanisms could be established that would enable the Security Council to continue monitoring Iraq's implementation of relevant United Nations resolutions once economic sanctions have been lifted. We do not believe that it is justifiable to punish a population simply on the basis of fear and suspicion. The Security Council should protect the Iraqi people from the deterioration of their living conditions. The United Nations has a historic responsibility to cooperate with Iraq in order to minimize the intense suffering that could befall the people of Iraq in future. We look forward to Iraq's positive cooperation in clarifying the fate of the Kuwaitis who remain captive inside Iraq. We deeply appreciate the efforts made by the Secretary-General in preparing his annual report. It is important to be willing to adopt a new vision for the restructuring of the United Nations, in particular the Security Council, as its principal organ, whose primary responsibility is the maintenance of international peace and security. We should consider the expansion of its membership to promote equitable representation, and reassess United Nations activities in regions of conflict and tension, ensuring that there is no interference in States' internal affairs. We fear that the United Nations could become a direct participant in regional conflicts, which would entail financial and moral obligations that it may not be able to fulfil. We have in the past emphasized the need for international cooperation, which the United Nations can foster in support of regional organizations to achieve peace and development. The problems of the African continent are intensifying, and it is vital to uncover the causes of these problems. It is incumbent upon the international community to work together and redouble its efforts in a positive and effective manner to resolve current political and social problems as well as ameliorate deteriorating health conditions. The United Nations should elaborate a solid plan in which all States would participate and contribute to the development of Africa instead of fighting for control of its wealth. We are facing real challenges, which we must be prepared to confront with courage if we are to focus on all aspects of development. We are in need of a new century and a new millennium marked by a sound balance between material values and humankind's legacy of ethical and spiritual values. We are in need of a world in which the strong sympathize with the weak and help them out of their plight. We need a plan of action to increase the standard of living of all peoples throughout the world.  It gives me pleasure, Sir, to congratulate you on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I am confident that your vast experience and unswerving efforts will guarantee the achievement of the best results at this session. I would also like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, for having wisely and successfully conducted the deliberations of the fifty- fourth session. I would be remiss if I failed to express to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, our thanks and appreciation for his efforts to preserve the principles and purposes of the Charter with a view to consolidating the prospects for peace and stability around the world. A new century has been ushered in. Our peoples and countries believe in the United Nations and in its ability to embrace new visions and concepts. We have high hopes that a reinvigorated Organization will promote a new world order forged, in essence, by the new forces at play. This will be a world order free from the new power play in order to consolidate the prospects for international peace and security in different parts of the globe and to meet the costs of development, which is the right of each and every individual. This can only be accomplished if we succeed in reactivating the central role of the United Nations. The primary organs of the Organization, namely, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, must be entrusted with containing and checking the dangers that face humanity and that threaten its social and economic peace as well as its security. 2 I am pleased to announce that, towards the end of next year, Lebanon will host the summit of the International Organization of La Francophonie to be held in the context of the Dialogue among Civilizations. Lebanon's experience in coexistence, its pluralistic nature and its openness to the world are, in our view, the best expression of such a dialogue. We all agree that the United Nations is an indispensable international institution, notwithstanding its inability to settle many disputes since its inception. The United Nations has at times been lax in enforcing its own resolutions, and at others it has been influenced by the international balance of power, which made it blind to the double standards at play. But what is indisputable is that the United Nations, with its mandates and its multifaceted world activities, constitutes a major human achievement and tradition. We must build upon this achievement by evincing the necessary will to lead the world towards reconciliation whilst maintaining the necessary balance between the collective interests of States, large and small. Our actions must be based on the principles of solidarity, equality and justice enshrined in the Charter. This is of particular importance at this crucial juncture in our human existence. While vast regions of the world are plagued by poverty, deprivation and disease, others are enjoying a social and economic boom rarely matched in the history of mankind. It is therefore important to jump start the different United Nations organs and specialized agencies, which have already impressed us with daily records of achievement that stand as a true measure of our collective spirit of solidarity . This solidarity must be the cornerstone of a new humanitarian world order capable of protecting the individual and of respecting all aspects of his rights. In this context, we highly value the steps taken to restructure some of the development organs of the Organization. Such steps have introduced into their work programmes the concept of cooperation with the institutions of civil society and with international financial institutions, the private sector and the donor community. In the second half of May this year, Lebanon and the United Nations witnessed a historic event when my country recovered most of its occupied territories in the south and in western Bekaa. Thanks to the resistance and steadfastness of the Lebanese people and the support of the international community, Israel had to withdraw from these territories after a ferocious occupation that lasted more than 22 years. It left behind a trail of devastation and destruction of infrastructure, private property and the environment, as well as a collapse in local production centres. Lebanon has paid dearly for its liberation. Thousands fell as martyrs on the road to victory and thousands more were injured or disabled. Human and material losses were not confined to the areas that were immediately under occupation. For 30 years, the Israeli arm of aggression has stretched far to reach all Lebanese territories. Repeated Israeli strikes terrorized our civilian population, destroyed civilian and vital establishments and wreaked havoc on our economic and service sectors. The Israeli withdrawal came in the wake of 22 years of continued refusal to comply with Security Council resolutions 425 (1978) and 426 (1978), which called upon Israel to withdraw immediately and unconditionally from Southern Lebanon and the western Bekaa to the internationally recognized borders, with strict respect for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and political independence of Lebanon. For the first time since 1978, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) was allowed to fulfil its mandate under resolution 425 (1978). To do this, the United Nations had to identify a line for the purpose of confirming the Israeli withdrawal. Regrettably, in three locations, this line did not conform to the internationally recognized boundary line demarcated in 1923 between Palestine and Lebanon under the French and British Mandates. The United Nations border line also leaves the Shabaa farmlands outside UNIFIL's area of operation in Southern Lebanon. Lebanon has seriously cooperated with the United Nations to fulfil the requirements for the implementation of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). Despite Israel's repeated violations of the withdrawal line and its obstructive practices, which hindered the deployment of the international work force for weeks, the force was at long last able to deploy, accompanied by the Lebanese armed forces. At this juncture, I see it fit to recall Lebanon's civilized stance and the wisdom and tolerance graciously shown by its valiant people after its victory and the withdrawal of the Israeli forces. Contrary to dire predictions, no mayhem or acts of vengeance 3 ensued. This has earned us the appreciation and admiration of the international community. On this occasion, allow me to pay tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, to his assistants and to the officers and soldiers of UNIFIL for the tireless and unswerving efforts they have been making in fulfilment of their noble task and in compliance with the resolutions of international legitimacy. In this context, I would like to underline the importance of the following points. First, Lebanon insists that its internationally recognized borders remain intact. They are the borders demarcated in accordance with the 1923 Paulet-Newcomb maps, and reaffirmed later in the 1949 Israeli-Lebanese General Armistice Agreement. Second, Lebanon confirms its reservations on three locations on the blue line of withdrawal adopted by the United Nations as the withdrawal line. This reservation is included in the report submitted by the Secretary-General to the Security Council on 16 June 2000. Third, Lebanon insists on its right to sovereignty over the Shaba'a farmlands, which are an integral part of Lebanese territories. Fourth, Lebanon insists on its sovereignty and authority over the locations set by the United Nations inside the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) line in the Mount Hermon area. Fifth, Lebanon demands the immediate release of all Lebanese detainees from Israeli prisons. They are kept as hostages in violation of the terms of the 1949 Fourth Geneva Convention, of the relevant Protocols and of the Hague Convention of 1907. Lebanon believes that the release of the detainees will be a completion of the Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon and will therefore be a fulfilment of Security Council resolution 425 (1978). Sixth, the liberation of Lebanese territories from Israeli occupation shall remain compromised unless a just solution is found to the problem of Palestinian refugees residing in Lebanon. The solution lies in allowing these refugees to return to their homeland, as provided for in the resolutions of international legitimacy. Israel must compensate Lebanon for the human, material and economic losses sustained as a result of Israeli occupation and other acts of aggression, in accordance with international and customary laws and with the principles of the United Nations Charter. In this regard, we recall Security Council resolution 262 (1968), which entitled Lebanon to appropriate redress for the enormous destruction it suffered when Israel attacked Beirut's International Airport in late 1968. In that attack, Israel destroyed 13 civilian Lebanese aircraft. The Lebanese firmly believe in their right to receive adequate and fair reparations for the substantial loss and devastation inflicted upon them after many long years of occupation and repeated acts of aggression. Those acts have been perpetrated by Israel since 1978 in stark defiance of the will of the United Nations. Lebanon will therefore resort to the International Court of Justice (ICJ), which is the proper organ to which to address its claims. We hope that the ICJ will be able to endorse our request for adequate reparations and we appeal to the international community to support our just and fair demands. The question of the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Lebanese liberated territories enjoys a high priority on the Lebanese agenda. It also enjoys tangible international support. In this context, I would like to recall the preparatory meeting of the donor community, held in Beirut on 27 July in cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the support of the World Bank and the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. This meeting was attended by representatives of 40 States and international financial institutions. The participants discussed the question of providing urgent financial assistance to help restore normalcy to the liberated territories. The preliminary deliberations were promising and we hope to see them materialize at the donors' conference to be held at the ministerial level in October. The Lebanese feel that the international community did not exert adequate efforts to compel Israel to comply with Security Council resolution 425 (1978), which called upon Israel to end its occupation a long time ago. Due to this delay, Lebanon as a whole had to suffer the dire consequences of occupation. Our resources plummeted, our economy crumbled and our people endured untold suffering. From this rostrum, I appeal to the donor countries, to international financial institutions and to the United Nations specialized agencies to provide sufficient assistance for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of South Lebanon. 4 This will be a token of solidarity on behalf of the international community. We thought that the prospects for the realization of a just and comprehensive peace in the region were real following the recent rounds of negotiations. Regrettably, the results were disappointing. The negotiations for peace floundered and the process was derailed on all tracks. This was due to the fact that the Israeli leaders gave the logic of No's' precedence over the principles of right and justice. This is particularly unfortunate in the light of the many achievements made in bringing the negotiations so close to an optimal solution, especially on the Syrian track. The prerogatives of peace are not commensurate with the Israeli No's'. These No's' run counter to the resolutions of international legitimacy that provided for the return to Syria of the entire Golan up to the line of 4 June 1967. These resolutions also recognized the need to enable the Palestinian people to recover their inalienable rights, including their right to self- determination, the establishment of their independent State on their own national soil, with Jerusalem as its capital, and their right to return to their homeland in Palestine. The liberation of most of the Lebanese territories from Israeli occupation will not affect Lebanon's commitment to the process of peaceful settlement of the Middle East question. Lebanon upholds its position with regard to the inseparability of the Syrian and Lebanese tracks. We believe that the opportunity for a just and comprehensive peace remains, provided that Israel complies with the resolutions of international legitimacy and the Madrid terms of reference. Lebanon believes that Israel has forfeited the achievements made in its negotiations with the Arab side due to the conflicting domestic agendas of various Israeli political groups. This will hinder the settlement process in the region, and will further compromise our protracted pursuit of peace. Lebanon calls on the co- sponsors of the peace process the United States and the Russian Federation and the European Union to renew their efforts to relaunch the peace process from the point where it left off in 1996. Lebanon cannot fail to stress once again that in order to achieve a peaceful settlement, the Palestinian refugees, particularly those hosted by Lebanon, must be allowed to return to their homeland. Ignoring their problem or attempting to resettle them in Lebanon will further exacerbate the tension and the volatility of the region. This would in turn threaten the prospects of a just and lasting peace. More than 10 years have passed since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. Nevertheless, the question of the release of the Kuwaiti detainees and prisoners of war still awaits a solution. We in Lebanon have condemned this invasion. We believe that, in addition to other measures required of Iraq, the release of prisoners will be an important step towards improving relations with that country. Lebanon calls for lifting the sanctions imposed on Iraq in order to alleviate the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people and to allow them to restore their security, stability and prosperity. There is a favourable trend in the relationship between Iran and the Gulf States. That trend must be an incentive to settle the dispute over three islands that has been going on between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the United Arab Emirates for over three decades. It should be settled in the context of good- neighbourliness and the common interests promoted by the League of Arab States and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. The Millennium Summit was convened as part of a global effort to foster the credibility of the United Nations and its ability to seek solutions to the problems of all countries and peoples. The international Organization must be capable of keeping up with the demands and challenges of the new millennium, whenever and wherever they arise. The deliberations of the Millennium Summit made it clear that what was at stake was the individual. Attempts to arrive at a global vision may differ in the details, but should definitely agree on the substance. In our view, the Millennium Declaration embodied creative ideas and principles that must be embraced in a global blueprint and translated into reality. Such a blueprint introduces novel approaches to the purposes and working methods of the United Nations. Lebanon agrees with the conclusions of the Summit. The main challenge we face today is to guarantee that the benefits of globalization are shared by all peoples of the world. The correct approach is for us to stand united so that globalization and its manifestations and results will have a human face. Adequate controls must be developed and must take into account the different cultures, traditions and real 5 needs of the peoples of the world. The costs and benefits of globalization must be fairly and equally distributed. Lebanon also believes that the protection of our common environment presents a different kind of challenge. Careful strategies must be developed for water-resource management, combating desertification, respecting and preserving ecosystems and combating environmental pollution. Those strategies must be governed by new ethics. God has privileged Lebanon with a scenic landscape and an optimal geographic location. Regrettably, we have had our share of environmental degradation. We therefore attach increasing importance to environmental issues. Laws are currently being enacted for the preservation of the environment pursuant to the decisions of relevant international conferences. We need the support of the international community in our endeavours. Development has become the main preoccupation of the developing and least developed countries. It must be linked to an open and just global trading system within an institutional framework that guarantees unobstructed investment and capital flows, as well as the transfer of technology. We must develop an international mechanism within the United Nations to address the indebtedness of developing countries. In our view, there is an inherent link between the maintenance of regional and international peace and security and the process of development and peace- building. Hotbeds of tension and protracted armed conflict in some regions of Africa, the Balkans and the Middle East impede the realization of integrated development. Our international Organization must therefore dedicate more efforts to defusing tensions and to resolving crises by reforming and invigorating the roles of its two primary organs, namely, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. In conclusion, Lebanon is a founding Member of the United Nations and has contributed to the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Today, Lebanon looks forward to playing a distinct role in the regional and international arenas. We are anxious to reconstruct and rehabilitate our vital and civil institutions and productive sectors after the liberation of our land from the Israeli occupation. We in Lebanon are striving for a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East that will bring back stability to our region and allow us to play a positive role in building a new world in which we aspire to live.Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at the current session. I am confident that under your able guidance our deliberations will yield success. I also wish to thank your predecessor for his leadership and for the his exemplary work as President of the Assembly during the fifty-fourth session. I also have the honour to extend convey my greetings to the Secretary-General and to acknowledge his firm leadership and his continuing interest in the search for practical and innovative solutions. For Colombia, this session represents a historic challenge: the challenge to forge new relationships aimed at carrying out the mission agreed upon by heads of State or Government at the Millennium Summit. They have defined the parameters of the world in which we wish to live and the conditions for creating a new international political and economic order. My country had the honour to submit the Cartagena de Indias Declaration (A/54/929), a commitment adopted by heads of State of the Rio Group, which enunciates the aspirations of our region and is an exceptional contribution to the future of the United Nations. We will now undertake a careful follow-up of these initiatives so as to translate them into realities for the benefit of humankind. Perhaps the dawn of the new millennium will enable us to face this challenge with optimism, to signal a break with the legacy of half a century and with the many proposals that have so often met with indifference. It represents an opportunity to translate our collective aspirations into tangible reality. In large part, our expectations relate to the meaning and scope of globalization. Sweeping revolutions are taking place in the fields of transportation, communication and the electronic media. Every day we are astonished by advances in technology and by the discoveries of applied science. The main purpose of the United Nations and of its various forums and agencies is to channel this enormous store of technological and scientific knowledge towards the poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population. Information technology is bringing structural change to the international economy and unprecedented opportunities to promote creative cultural interaction among peoples. But the information revolution can also become a source of exclusion. We face the risk of creating a new form of illiteracy: cyber-illiteracy. We must bridge the digital divide and convert information technology into a positive factor for education and poverty-reduction so that the information revolution may become truly global. Failure to do so will increase the gap between rich and poor. One of our principal challenges is therefore to globalize globalization and to make it an imperative for the twenty-first century. It is, in other words, to bring the benefits of this process to more regions, nations and individuals by democratizing access to new technologies, eliminating barriers to trade and investment and recognizing that the resources with which nature provides us are the common heritage of future generations. Here, preservation of the environment is a key element. We have an obligation to respect nature and to build a sustainable future. We must put an end to the destruction being caused by the irrational use of natural resources and by unsound patterns of consumption and production. This requires greater political commitment to control climate change, eliminate sources of water pollution and put an end to the loss of our forests. The provision of financial resources and transfer of environmentally safe technologies are issues still to be resolved. The international community must honour the commitments it has assumed in this field before it is too late. For their part, the United Nations and the multilateral financial institutions must develop a new framework to prevent and respond to risks and economic crises. We need a stable, ordered, transparent and predictable financial system, one in which we can strengthen our early warning capacity, effectively control the volatility of capital flows and ensure sufficient liquidity to provide timely support to countries affected by crisis. Another urgent priority is to create social protection networks that can be used in times of financial crisis. The beginning of the millennium is marked also by new concerns and threats to peace and security. The proliferation and illicit trade in small arms is one of these. The illegal traffic in such arms has reached 31 unacceptable proportions; its impact has been even more devastating than that of weapons of mass destruction. Despite this, the international community is not giving it the importance and priority which this grave problem demands. Urgent and effective measures are needed to halt and completely eliminate this illegal trade. Countries affected by this phenomenon must not remain exposed to the criminal activities of the networks of arms traffickers who, taking advantage of the absence of monitoring and oversight mechanisms, are causing irreparable damage to our societies. Governments have the political and moral responsibility to act decisively against illicit arms exports and to bring all the force of the law to bear against the merchants of death and violence who profit from this nefarious trade. My country, Colombia, has paid a very high price in human lives as a consequence of this criminal activity. Countries that are exporters of small arms must establish controls on intermediaries and refrain from authorizing sales if there is a risk of improper use. There is a need for greater transparency and for the exchange of information on the modalities and routes of this trade. We must urgently create mechanisms to provide financial and technical assistance so that affected countries will be better able to implement effective controls. We have a responsibility to ensure that the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in all its Aspects, to be held in 2001, results in concrete commitments and effective action. The global problem of illicit drugs, for its part, continues to be one of the most serious threats of our time. It is a factor for violence and corruption, economic disruption and impoverishment, erosion of the social fabric and instability in democracies. It is also a cause of alarming environmental disasters. No nation has suffered as tragically as Colombia from the consequences of this global problem. Every day, lives are lost in Colombia through the action of outlaw groups whose activities are financed from resources obtained from the traffic in drugs. Now, when all our efforts are focused on the difficult battle against this problem, we need increased support and the effective solidarity of the international community. Only by accepting and fully implementing the principle of shared responsibility will humankind be able to free itself from the scourge of illicit drugs. We ask for no more. Let us all assume the cost that is our share to bear in order to wipe this illegal activity from the face of the earth. Colombia is making extraordinary efforts to advance towards a solution to its internal conflict. It is a fundamental objective that we will never renounce. We are aware that the building of peace takes time, but we are making steady progress. In the midst of the complexities of our situation in Colombia, and despite the cruelty of the present conflict, we have made progress in confidence-building, in the dialogue, in the discussion of the thematic agendas and in the participation of civil society. We know full well that the achievement of peace requires in-depth action in the economic and social fields that could give real and lasting content to these efforts. A number of countries have joined in this process, at the request of the Government. Today, peace in Colombia is important for the world. I appeal to the international community to reaffirm its solidarity and offer its material support to our peace process. One of the most important developments of the last two decades has been the increasing commitment to respect for human rights. We have made some progress in defining economic and social rights as an indivisible component of so-called traditional rights or individual freedoms. The old objections that prevented us from proclaiming the universal validity and application of human rights are gradually losing way and States have accepted their responsibility for ensuring compliance. In recent years, civil conflicts have become a major expression of violence. International humanitarian law is essential to deal with the consequences of these confrontations. Its enforcement, however, requires agreement on the minimum rules of respect for the civil population and the interests of States. The key to that enforcement is that humanitarian law its postulates, norms and mechanisms should be equally applied by all parties in conflict. The movements of people, including refugees or migrants, must also be recognized as a priority issue. They are protected by a concrete framework of human rights. In a world that promotes the free movement of capital and free trade, it is unacceptable that unjustified 32 restrictions continue to be applied to the movement of people. The solution to concrete problems on the international agenda necessarily requires concerted action and multilateralism; Colombia has always been and will continue to be firmly committed to it. We believe that this multilateralism can be supplemented by convergent regional initiatives and bilateralism as part of an approach to reduce distances and imbalances in other words, a multilateralism that serves as a bridge for rapprochement, solidarity and shared responsibility, concepts upon which the entire building of the contemporary international order must be constructed. Our peoples, in whose name the Charter of the United Nations was conceived, yearn to see how the fulfilment of the purposes and functions of the United Nations can be reflected in the satisfaction of their hopes and aspirations. Even though in many respects we are still far from this objective, we must preserve the gains achieved. An attitude of passivity is not convenient for the Organization. This Assembly must adopt decisions to reactivate the process of United Nations reform, on realistic grounds, but without further delaying the measures that require urgent implementation. There are many initiatives that can be realized without the need for reform of the Charter. The only thing required is the will to show solidarity and to make timely political decisions. The United Nations acts as the world's conscience, requiring greater priority in order to meet the needs of the poor countries. Strategies must be urgently developed to mobilize funds to remove the causes of underdevelopment. The growing gap between the wealth of the prosperous and the poverty of those who are marginalized from progress is in itself an appeal for attention which should be listened to and should lead to the translation of words into deeds. In this connection, we welcome the growing role being played by non-governmental organizations, whose activities should be accompanied by a proper definition of their responsibilities. For their part, the transnational corporations, which play such an important function in the global economy, should give serious consideration to the United Nations through financial support to the Organization, which is in urgent need of additional resources. This support could well be channelled towards United Nations poverty- reduction programmes. The reform of the Security Council continues to be one of the principal reforms anticipated from the expected adjustment of multilateral political institutions. But in this area we need a gradual, less maximalist approach. Formulas must be explored to ensure greater participation of developing countries. We must take effective steps to promote greater representativity in the Council, on the understanding that this does not constitute a privilege, but rather a responsibility. Broader regional representation, restrictions on the use of the veto and greater transparency in the decision-making process could bring the Security Council closer to a reality that is not the same now in the twenty-first century as it was in 1945. The election of new members to the Council will take place in a few weeks. Colombia has the support of Latin America and the Caribbean to be elected as a non-Permanent Member of this important organ. Once our entry is approved by the General Assembly, we will assume this responsibility as of 1 January. It will be an opportunity to reaffirm Colombia's commitment to, and confidence in, multilateralism and its resolute and unconditional commitment to the norms and principles of international law. We will also reaffirm our conviction that peaceful and negotiated solutions to disputes and respect for international humanitarian law by all parties to a conflict are essential in order to build firm and lasting foundations for peace and security. We will promote better functioning of the Council, especially in terms of information and consultation with States that are not part of that organ, and we will foster a more permanent and closer relationship with the General Assembly as the supreme organ of the United Nations. Never before has humankind had the prospect like the one now afforded at the beginning of the new millennium to make steady progress towards peace, progress and international stability. It is an opportunity for the leaders of the world to make a decisive political step in that direction. Let us give our peoples new hope that the change in the millennium will signify not merely a chronological change but also the beginning of a true political and social transformation. Only thus will future generations recognize that we had the courage to assume our obligations with responsibility.On behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, I should like first of all to congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I believe that the present session will produce the desired results under his leadership. I pay tribute to his predecessor Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, who made a great contribution to the successful conclusion of the fifty-fourth session. I wish also to express our great appreciation for the efforts made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan to strengthen the role of the United Nations. The central role of the United Nations in the new century should be to establish international relations and order to make the new century independent, peaceful and prosperous. No country can either defend its national dignity or achieve social and economic development when its national sovereignty is violated. 26 This is the lesson for mankind on the threshold of the twenty-first century. It is the common aspiration of the world's peoples that the twenty-first century should be a century of independence, peace and development. Genuine peace and prosperity on our planet can be achieved only when the sovereignty of all countries is respected. We regard independence as our life and soul. The idea of independence runs through all domestic and foreign policies and lines of the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. This is the brilliant embodiment of the independent policy of the great leader General Kim Jong Il. The reality prevailing on the Korean peninsula clearly testifies to the justness of the independent policies consistently carried out by the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Without independence, it is unthinkable that our country could overcome the manifold difficulties and advance the building of a powerful nation convincingly along the road chosen by its people. The independent foreign policy of the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea makes a tangible contribution to peace and stability in North-East Asia. It can be said that it is entirely because of our firm adherence to independence that our country has been able to play a buffer-zone role effectively in the intersection of the divergent geopolitical interests of several countries. We take pride in the independent foreign policy of our Government, as it contributes to maintaining the balance of power and preventing a war in North-East Asia. The independent policy of the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea also gives full play to its vitality in advancing the cause of peace and reunification on the Korean peninsula. The General Assembly at its twenty-eighth session in 1973 unanimously welcomed the three principles of independence, peaceful reunification and great national unity which had been agreed upon by the north and the south of the Korean peninsula. These three principles of national reunification are the grand programme of reunification put forward by President Kim Il Sung, the great leader of our people, and constitute the most essential component of the three-point charter for national reunification defined by the respected General Kim Jong Il. At the historic Pyongyang meeting in June this year, the leaders of the North and the South reaffirmed these three principles of national reunification, and on this basis the North-South joint declaration on solving the reunification question independently by the concerted efforts of our nation was made public. The summit meeting and the resulting joint declaration represent a historic milestone, marking a turning-point in achieving the cause of independent reunification of our nation. Amidst the increased spirit of national independence and reunification, North-South ministerial talks for reconciliation and collaboration are being held and the reunions of separated families realized. Mutual visits between the North and the South through, inter alia, direct flights between Pyongyang and Seoul are now commonplace, and a project is underway to re-link the railways between the North and the South of Korea. This is the brilliant fruition of our independent policy and the result of a warm love for the nation and strong desire for reunification. It is none other than the Korean nation that is responsible for Korea's reunification question. Korea's reunification should be achieved independently by the concerted efforts of the Koreans in the North and the South, as stated in the North-South joint declaration. Reunification will come about if both sides take realistic and practical measures for establishing a reunified State by making the most of common elements of the federation and the confederation proposed by the North and the South respectively. The independent reunification of our nation will surely lead to a lasting peace on the Korean peninsula, and we believe that this will in turn contribute to peace and security in Asia and the rest of the world. The turning point created on the Korean peninsula is a positive development of global significance. We consider that the present trend towards the improvement of North-South relations and reunification is a process that should be valued for the sake of peace and security in North-East Asia as well. If this process is to continue to gain momentum, the countries concerned should work in support of the process, rather than disturbing it. The United States has created our non-existent “missile threat” in order to justify the establishment of its “theatre missile defense” and “national missile 27 defense” systems. Nevertheless, it gives rise to worldwide concern about its danger. Our missile programme is of a peaceful nature, for all intents and purposes. All countries have an equal sovereign right, recognized by the United Nations, to conduct research on and make use of the outer space. It is therefore totally unfair for the United States to take issue only with our rockets while many other countries are launching their own space rockets. If hostile relations are removed and confidence is built between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States, there will be ways to address the concerns on both sides. The recent incident that prevented the President of the Presidium of our Supreme People's Assembly from attending the Millennium Summit is, after all, the manifestation of the continued hostile policy pursued by the United States against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, in labelling our country a “terrorism-sponsoring nation”. In this regard, we note that the United States has recognized its responsibility for the incident and given assurances that such incidents would not occur again. We also note the recently stated United States position that it has no reason to perpetuate its hostile relations with our country. If this position is put into practice, we will be ready to respond in a positive way at any time. Another factor that casts a shadow on positive development on the Korean peninsula is the suspicious future of Japan. Whether Japan revives its militarist spectre or becomes a peace-loving country is a serious question directly linked to peace and stability in Asia, particularly in its neighbouring Korean peninsula. Continued evasion by Japan on settling its past with our country is the main factor that makes us suspicious of its future orientation. Moreover, such suspicion is increased as we witness Japanese moves to find pretexts for justifying its rearmament by targeting our country as its “enemy”. Should Japan take the path of militarism, it will obviously strain its relations with other Asian countries and exert negative effects on the improvement of North-South relations. We hope Japan will not go in this direction. Japan should find its future in a sincere and early settlement of its past. Now that the North- South joint declaration is being smoothly implemented, new, sound international relations will be established in North-East Asia once the hostile relations between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States, and between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Japan, are resolved. In conformity with this encouraging process, the United Nations should also take practical measures to dismantle the “United Nations Command”, a legacy of the cold war, thus making a due contribution to this process. In order to establish fair international relations and an international order that will properly represent the new century, it is important to successfully overcome the challenges to the United Nations Charter. The most serious challenge posed in international relations at present is the emergence of the concept of “humanitarian intervention”. The United Nations is based on the principle of sovereign equality. The Charter enshrines the principles of respect for sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs as a cornerstone of international relations. These are the major principles based on the reality in which big and small countries exist in the world. All countries aspire to independence and struggle to defend their national sovereignty. Encroachment upon the sovereignty of small countries by big Powers in exercise of power politics is an act of high-handedness, as already judged by the times. “Humanitarian intervention” is a dangerous concept that could beautify such acts of high-handedness and eliminate the essential spirit of the Charter. The international relations of the new century should serve to terminate arbitrariness and high- handedness, such as threatening sovereign States by force and imposing sanctions on them, and to fully implement the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. International peace and security should be achieved by strengthening the role of the United Nations, not by arbitrariness, high-handedness and intervention by any individual big Power. The role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, should be enhanced. Despite an ever-growing desire and expectation by international society for disarmament after the end of the cold war, the disarmament process is at a standstill, faced with new challenges. Reality requires that the nuclear disarmament process be turned into a United Nations process, instead of being left to 28 the nuclear-weapon States alone. We are of the view that the fourth special session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to disarmament should be held as early as possible, taking into due consideration the demand of a large number of countries. Another challenge to be effectively countered by the United Nations in international relations is an attempt to politicize the human rights issue. Along with the use of force, the human rights issue constitutes one of the two factors straining international relations. This is demonstrated in the reality in which United Nations meetings that address human rights issues are often converted into an arena of confrontation, not cooperation. In fact, there is no more grave human rights violation than abusing the human rights issue for political purposes. The United Nations should enhance its role decisively to ensure that fairness is fully observed, and not acquiesce in the application of double standards when dealing with human rights issues. The twenty-first century should be a century of development. Durable international peace and security are inconceivable without the eradication of poverty and the solution of social and economic problems. A fair international economic order which is conducive to sustainable economic development for the developing countries should be established as early as possible. In particular, it is imperative that the United Nations further the analysis and assessment of the nature and danger of globalization, as well as its impact on the developing countries, and take necessary measures. In this regard, we believe that the Declaration and Action Programme adopted at the South Summit held in Cuba last April can serve as an excellent basis for that purpose. In order for the United Nations to play a role commensurate with the requirements of the new century, it should be democratized through reform of its structure. The main purpose of United Nations reform is to ensure democracy and strict observance of the principles of justice and fairness in all its activities. The General Assembly has now been relatively democratized, but it does not have sufficient authority. In contrast, the Security Council has authority and action capability but falls short of the desired degree of democracy. In particular, the present structure of the Security Council leaves a vacuum which allows the United Nations to be used as a tool of high-handedness, for the Council monopolizes decision-making power on such critical issues as enforcement action, including the use of force. The twentieth century witnessed such cases on several occasions. We hold that the enhancement of the authority of the General Assembly is a prerequisite for ensuring democracy in United Nations activities. The Assembly must be empowered at least to review the issues of international peace and security and to approve major decisions and resolutions of the Security Council on these issues. In reforming the Security Council, priority should be given to increasing the number of non-permanent seats, thus correcting the present imbalance in regional representation. It is also imperative that effective ways be sought to ensure strict observance of the principles of justice and fairness in United Nations activities. We consider that one means to this end will be to restore the confidence of the international community in the United Nations by redressing those issues mishandled in the past by the United Nations, in contradiction to the purposes and principles of its Charter, by force of arbitrariness and high-handedness. Independence, peace and friendship are the fundamental ideas of the foreign policy of the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The Democratic People's Republic will remain true to this idea and faithfully discharge its obligations as a Member State of the United Nations, so that the United Nations can become a truly effective organization that creditably serves the aspirations and requirements of the new century. It is a great pleasure for me to convey through you, Sir, to the President of the General Assembly our sincere congratulations upon his election. I am confident that he will lead the work of this Millennium Assembly most ably. I should also like to express our sincere appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Gurirab, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, for his exceptional leadership of the fifty-fourth session. May I also express our high esteem for the Secretary-General for his most efficient preparation for both the Millennium Summit and Assembly. We appreciate his efforts to maintain and promote the role of the Organization and to strengthen its effectiveness and credibility. The convening of the Millennium Summit and Assembly is an important milestone in the international system and the future of the United Nations. The two occasions constitute a unique forum to review the state of the world and its developments and to take stock of the performance of the Organization so as to enable it to occupy its central place in the international system and hence lead the movement of change on the basis of a general consensus and a meeting of all minds. The goal of the establishment of a stable and effective system of collective security through dialogue and cooperation in the context of international democracy has been one of the most important objectives of the United Nations and those of the international community. It is thus necessary to allow the United Nations to achieve its objectives by adapting its work to the current international variables that must take the United Nations seriously. This might very well be the thrust of the Secretary-General's report to the Millennium Assembly. In our opinion, the first step down this road is to agree on a broad modern definition of collective security in the coming decades. Security in its most simple and realistic definition is based on three basic and organically linked rights, namely, the right to safety and stability and avoidance of the scourges of war, mass destruction and armed conflicts, the right to development and to a decent life free from poverty, destitution and want and the right to live in a healthy environment free from pollution, disease and negative social phenomena. A cursory glance at the state of those three rights would reveal that during the last decade of international transformations they have become exposed to new threats, while existing ones have been exacerbated in a manner threatening grave repercussions. After the end of the cold war and the end of tensions between the two super-Powers, international peace became exposed to a new kind of threat, the threat resulting from the disintegration of some States, the collapse of their national structures and the victimization of their people due to internal strife and negative foreign intervention. Globalization, world market, the information and communications revolution and the emergence of new kinds of economic activities all hold the promise of unlimited progress, yet they carry with them the dangers of widening the development gap between the developed and developing world. As for a healthy environment, whole continents are suffering from epidemics, environmental degradation, backwardness and the spread of ethnic wars as well as the increased tragedies of refugees. Africa is the region most affected by that horrible triangle armed civil conflicts, poverty and economic backwardness, degraded environment, natural disasters, deadly diseases and epidemics. There is a belt of tension encircling the continent and economic difficulties and problems continue. Africa has thus reached an untenable situation that requires immediate and firm attention in order to help it extricate itself from that quagmire. I must reiterate in this regard that the African States, through the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and other groupings, are discharging their responsibilities as best they can. They are taking necessary measures and steps to place themselves on the right path towards a better future. Special mention should be made here of the OAU Mechanism for conflict resolution, the efforts to strengthen peacekeeping capabilities through subregional groupings and the establishment of common markets and economic groupings, such as the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Our continent is moving towards a form of unity on the basis of the resolutions of the recent LomÈ summit, which will be followed up at the upcoming Sirte summit. An agreement was recently concluded in Arusha on the settlement of the Burundi conflict. A new President of Somalia, Mr. Abdi Kassim Salad Hassan, was elected after the constructive efforts of the Government of sisterly Djibouti. There are efforts under way in the Great Lakes region. All these examples prove Africa's ability to deal on its own with some of its problems. Yet it cannot be left alone without the support of the international community, particularly in the field of peacekeeping and peace- making. The United Nations must play its full role in that field. Meeting the new challenges faced by the international community and achieving the goal of establishing an effective system of collective security for future generations require, as I mentioned earlier, improving the United Nations performance and adapting it to the demands of these goals. In his message to the Millennium Summit last week, President Mubarak stressed the need to pay special attention to the maintenance of international peace and to support efforts for development, poverty elimination and narrowing the widening gap between the rich and the poor in our world. Allow me to address these priorities and to stress their linkage to a number of important subjects and necessary steps. First, there is an urgent need to strengthen and reform the United Nations in general. There is a similar need to reform and restructure the Security Council and to enhance its credibility. We are determined to continue our contribution to the current dialogue on a comprehensive and balanced package deal on the expansion of both the permanent and non- permanent membership of the Council. This would enable the Council to be more equitably representative. It would also reflect the overwhelming majority of the developing countries, members of the Organization. We are fully committed to the positions of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) in this regard. We reiterate the need for expansion of the Council to be accompanied by reform of its working methods and a revision of the use of the veto power, with a view to rationalizing it. I wish to stress here what I mentioned earlier that Egypt has a long history of regional and international contributions. It plays a significant role on the African, Arab and Islamic levels, as well as in the Middle East and among the developing countries 19 and emerging economies. In addition, Egypt has made many contributions to support United Nations activities and achieve its objectives. It has also contributed to the Organization's peacekeeping operations. All this makes Egypt eminently eligible and qualified to shoulder the responsibilities of permanent membership in an expanded Security Council, within the framework suggested by the African heads of State and Government since 1997. Second, there is an equally urgent need to restore the role of the General Assembly in the maintenance of peace, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter, especially when the Security Council fails to discharge its primary responsibility in this regard. This would ensure that any collective actions or measures enjoyed the international legitimacy represented by the Organization. There is a need to further develop United Nations peacekeeping operations and provide them with a rapid deployment capability. There is also a need for concerted efforts to increase the capacity of States, particularly African States, to participate in United Nations peacekeeping operations, or those of regional and subregional organizations which are mandated and financed by the United Nations. Egypt will address these important issues when the General Assembly considers the Brahimi report (A/55/305). These considerations must be kept in mind when we address how to develop the conceptual and practical framework of peacemaking and peacekeeping. New ideas, such as humanitarian intervention and the preventive deployment of forces, have, since the last session, begun to gain currency. We have called, and continue to call, for discussion of those ideas with the highest degree of frankness and transparency. Those ideas impinge on the concept of sovereignty. Some tend to belittle the value and importance of sovereignty when the matter pertains to the sovereignty of others. Those very same States tend also to consider it sacrosanct and inviolable when the matter pertains to their own sovereignty. Third, the sanctions regime, as one of the component parts of the measures taken within the current system of collective security, needs a thorough review. Sanctions cannot last indefinitely. They must not cause human suffering to tens of millions of people or result in massive and destructive harm to the economic infrastructures or social fabric of States. Sanctions must not lead to the creation of angry generations who will continue to be embittered by their suffering, even after these actions are lifted. Fourth, there is a need to recognize the importance of continued, serious consideration of the question of disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, which is the most destructive and poses the greatest threats. The priority of nuclear disarmament must not be overshadowed by the increased attention paid to small arms, light weapons and anti-personnel landmines. This is not to say that we do not recognize the importance of these subjects or the need to deal with them comprehensively and appropriately. In this regard, we reaffirm Egypt's initiatives for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons. We welcome the results of the sixth Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in the field of nuclear disarmament in general. We welcome in particular the Conference's recognition of the specificity of the situation in the Middle East and its reaffirmation of the continued validity and importance of implementing the resolutions on the Middle East adopted by the NPT Review and Extension Conference in 1995. Fifth, with the accelerated pace of globalization and trade liberalization, the gap between the rich and poor countries is widening in a manner that threatens grave dangers. The comparison between patterns of production and consumption and standards of living in the developing and developed worlds is both stark and shocking. Narrowing this gap and correcting this imbalance in the international structure is not merely a moral obligation, but is vital. An international partnership must be established to achieve this objective. The call for social justice within States must be accompanied by a similar call for justice in sharing the benefits of progress, globalization, the information technology and communications revolution and trade liberalization among members of the international family in the North and the South alike. We truly need to give globalization a human face and an equilibrium that will enable it to contribute to bridging that gap. United Nations literature is replete with studies on the problems of and obstacles to development and the elimination of poverty. This, however, is no longer sufficient. In several international conferences we have adopted plans and programmes of action containing 20 clear commitments to mobilize the financial resources necessary to implement them. Yet implementation has not been at the level of the commitments contained in those documents. A few months ago we reviewed progress in the implementation of the recommendations of the international conferences on population, women and social development. But what were the results of these reviews? What are the ways needed to face the obstacles that have impeded progress and made the implementation of the recommendations of those conferences fall below our expectations? We have adopted the objective of halving poverty in the world by 2015. What is the course charted for achieving this objective and what are the commitments made to mobilize the financial resources necessary for its achievement? What about the numerous programmes and initiatives for African development? Have their achievements been commensurate with the magnitude of the problems facing the continent? Is it not time for a clear commitment, going beyond the current initiatives, to lift the burden of foreign indebtedness that is crushing Africa? We need a genuine partnership between the North and the South. We need real and effective support by the donors and the international financial institutions to implement development efforts and attempts to eliminate poverty, not only as a moral value taking the form of freedom from want, as mentioned in the Secretary-General's report (A/54/2000), but also as a vital objective connected to the establishment of peace and stability. Sixth, in the same vein, an attempt to place responsibility for achieving development and eliminating poverty solely or even primarily on the shoulders of developing countries is both dangerous and short-sighted, because it would undermine the concept of international cooperation, which is one of the cornerstones of the world system, and ignore the repercussions of the widening gap between the rich and the poor in our world. That gap is now 16 times as large as it was in the 1960s. An attempt is also being made to link international cooperation and the North's support for the South with concepts and values that in themselves we support but whose new conditionality we reject. I am referring here to democracy, good governance and human rights. Questions of democratic transformation, improved governance and administration, increased transparency and accountability, and promoting respect for human rights cannot be dealt with in isolation from the questions of development, poverty and subsistence, for they too are vitally important subjects. Should not the call for democracy within States be matched by a similar call for democracy among States and international organizations? Should not the call for the rule of law be accompanied by a similar call for respect for international law, the sovereignty of States and the rights of peoples? Can good governance and administration be achieved in the absence of a parallel effort for the development of human resources and the capacity-building? Is it sufficient just to pay attention to the civil and political rights of people while ignoring their economic, social and cultural rights, foremost among which is the inalienable right to development? Seventh, the success of the development efforts of the peoples of the world at this stage depends on their efficient use of the tools of the new age, particularly information technology. The technological revolution has led to a widening of the gap between those who have those tools and those who do not. Nevertheless, information and knowledge technologies are of such a nature as to enable them to contribute to narrowing the gaps between the countries of the world. The attention Egypt pays to these global questions does not take away from the attention it gives to regional issues that are extremely sensitive. Among those questions, I would like to concentrate on the issues of peace in the Middle East and the situation in the Sudan, which are of the utmost importance to Egypt and, without a doubt, to many in the Arab world, Africa and the international community at large. The Arab-Israeli conflict entails vital issues related to the lives of peoples and to the future of nations. Those include recognition of legitimate rights, sovereignty over national soil, the inalienable right to self-determination, the inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force and the right of all States to live peacefully within secure borders. All these issues are directly linked to international and regional peace and security. The logic that must govern the peace process in the Middle East should not stem from the assumption that one is dealing with a permanent foe or opponent. It must aim instead at turning past animosity into good- neighbourliness and normal relations among the peoples and the States of the region. What is at stake is 21 the security of the region and the security and prosperity of future generations, and not short-term political considerations. We face a clear choice between either settling the issue in terms of real estate in which one party demands metres, miles or tens of miles thereby keeping alive the seeds of tension and conflict, or by seeking through clear political will to establish a just and lasting peace by which the rights of all parties are secured and their obligations are well defined through necessary international guarantees. The latter option must be based on international law, something that applies to the Israeli/Palestinian track and to the Syrian/Israeli track alike. There is no doubt that the overwhelming majority of States, communities and individuals support the achievement of a just solution that does not favour one party at the expense of the other. Most people would opt for peace and justice and would prefer to look ahead to the future in a positive way. The overwhelming majority of the Palestinian and Israeli people also want peace, a peace that is clear and clean and not partial, distorted or absent something that, at the end of the day, would be more of a headache than a concrete peace. In that regard, I would like to say that President Arafat and the Palestinian people face one of two choices: either no solution or a bad solution. This is a policy that will never garner support or appreciation or ever lead to a viable solution. As to the so-called flexibility, which has been at the forefront of commentary lately, it should mean only flexibility within the realm of international law and not outside it. If we are talking about flexibility on Jerusalem, that cannot in any way mean accepting Israeli sovereignty over Al-Haram al-Sharif. It could instead mean arrangements for the new Palestinian State that would give it sovereignty over all its territories while respecting the holy sites and guaranteeing their protection and free access to them. That would assume that, as a full-fledged member of the international community, the sovereign Palestinian State would be in charge. The peace process is but a few miles away from the finish line. We hope it will not take many long years for Syria and Palestine to travel those few miles. We also hope that the sponsors of the peace process will be wise and able enough to propose honest solutions to the parties in order to enable the honest broker to lead the negotiations to a certain conclusion. At this juncture, I would like to salute President Clinton's enthusiasm and tireless efforts in steering the peace process during an eleventh-hour attempt to find a lasting solution during his Administration. In order to achieve that objective it is essential to uphold one guiding principle that cannot be circumvented, namely, full withdrawal from all Syrian and Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem, in return for Israel's right to be integrated into the Middle East as a partner with equal rights to security, peace and cooperation. That is the essence of resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and of the principle of land for peace. Lasting peace and security can be established only on that basis. If Arab territories, or any part of those territories, remain under occupation or if any question is settled in a manner inconsistent with the principles of fairness and justice, it would create a time bomb that could explode at any time. The desired peace and security cannot be fully realized without the establishment of a full-fledged, independent Palestinian State. The stability of peace and security in the Middle East is tied to the need for serious consideration of the question of armaments in the Middle East. Permanently defusing tensions calls for dealing with the problem of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery vehicles. This will also contribute directly to the maintenance of international peace and security. Peace and stability in the Middle East will not be complete or lasting without the establishment of a comprehensive regional security system that ensures control over the quantity and quality of armaments in the region and establishes a zone free from weapons of mass destruction, in accordance with President Mubarak's initiative, which enjoys global understanding and support. The Sudan is a State of unique character in regional relations. It is at once a major component of the Arab world and an integral part of the African community. Its stability is also vital for the security and stability of the Horn of Africa, the Red Sea and the Nile basin. The importance Egypt attaches to this brotherly country therefore stems not only from the fact that it is Egypt's strategic twin, but because it is a central factor to the security of a vast and vitally important region. Many efforts have been made, and many initiatives have been presented, to achieve peace in the 22 Sudan, most of which were made in good faith. However, they all dealt with the situation from a single perspective, that of the southern Sudan against the north. Consequently, Egypt and Libya saw the need to complement those efforts with a comprehensive programme aimed at achieving broad national reconciliation encompassing all the factions and all the parties. The objective is to create a new Sudan, where stability and harmony prevail within a basic framework of unity and territorial integrity, equality among its citizens, and consensual self-determination by all its citizens and component parts. This will bring comfort and reassurance to the Sudanese people and to all its neighbours. The Egyptian-Libyan initiative has gone a long way towards bringing the parties closer. The coordination of this initiative with that of the Inter- Government Authority on Development (IGAD) is possible. Efforts will continue to ensure the convening of a conference on national reconciliation to achieve peace in that important country. The achievement of peace in the Middle East, the Horn of Africa and in the continents of Asia and Africa as a whole is a necessary condition for world stability. The situation in Afghanistan, Kashmir, the Caucasus, Sri Lanka, the continued tragedy of Iraq, and the conflicts in Africa and their attendant social and economic problems all give rise to serious concerns about the new world order about its credibility and effectiveness. We must act quickly in order to resolve these problems in a context of international legitimacy and within the framework of the United Nations. Finally, amid all that, the United Nations stands as an expression of the will of the international community. The purposes and principles of its Charter are a guiding beacon. Let this Millennium Summit and Assembly be a new turning point that will put us on the right path towards a world of greater security, justice and stability, a world that builds upon the achievements of the twentieth century and closes the chapter on its grave errors.I would like to extend my warmest congratulations to Mr. Holkeri on his well- deserved election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I am certain that his considerable experience and diplomatic skills will guide the work of this session to a successful conclusion. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for the exceptional manner in which he presided over the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. Earlier this month, in this very Hall, an unprecedented gathering of heads of State took place — an event that, through the final Declaration, has given new impetus to enhanced international cooperation to tackle an array of international problems. The Millennium Assembly has expressed the strong will of the peoples of this planet for common action so that humanity can proceed with the construction of a better world. Cyprus reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations, which we have always considered and continue to consider to be the foundation on which the international community can pursue the lofty goals of peace, security, justice, respect for human rights, and social and economic development on a global level. We thus fully support the continuing efforts towards the reform of the Organization, including its principal organs, so that it will be able to successfully face the many international challenges. For, just as all living organisms are constantly evolving in order to adapt and survive in an ever-changing environment, so does the United Nations need always to have the necessary structures and means that will make it as effective as possible. Cyprus welcomes the efforts of the United Nations in the area of disarmament and we are particularly pleased at the successful conclusion earlier this year of the review process of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We would like to congratulate the Russian Federation for its recent ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the START II Treaty. We consider the expansion of the regime of nuclear-free zones, including one in our region of the Mediterranean, to be an important component in our goal towards a nuclear- free world. The illicit trafficking of small arms is an issue of grave concern. We are fully supportive of international efforts in this direction and consider more effective action to eliminate this phenomenon to be an imperative need of our increasingly interdependent world. In countless reports of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, the concern is evident regarding the continuing degradation of the environment and the imperative need for global policies in the pursuit of sustainable development. The effects of overpopulation and unregulated development will undoubtedly create new pressures on the environment in this new century. Small island States facing their vulnerability to global warming, rising water level and the increasing scarcity of water resources are particularly concerned in this area. We are particularly pleased with the organization in Cyprus next January of the workshop on energy for sustainable development, a capacity-development initiative of the Alliance of Small Island States. We expect this workshop to make a substantive input to the ninth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development. The effects of globalization were extensively discussed by world leaders at the Millennium Summit. I will therefore limit myself in this statement to only one aspect of the whole question of the impact of globalization, which we consider a major problem that we all have an obligation to address. The eradication of poverty is undeniably one of the major challenges that the international community faces. It is imperative that new and imaginative policies to attack the problem be developed, with the Member States of the United Nations and the major international financial 24 institutions working in close cooperation on this issue. Debt relief should be a central part of these efforts. The progress achieved since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted more than half a century ago, has been considerable. The international regime of human rights instruments has been continually expanding and constitutes the criterion against which the international community and national Governments are judged as to their dedication and actions in the protection of human rights. The United Nations has been at the forefront of these new winds of hope for humankind. The subject of human rights today encompasses a variety of topics. We are very pleased at the successful conclusion of the special session of the General Assembly on women and the follow-up conference on social development, which were held earlier this year in New York and Geneva respectively. We look forward to continuing on this path at the upcoming world conference on racism, xenophobia and related intolerance and at the special session of the General Assembly on children. One of the areas of particular concern to Cyprus is the increasing number of refugees and internally displaced persons throughout the world. Cyprus has itself experienced the tragic consequences of mass displacement and ethnic cleansing. The vast majority of displaced people — more than 22 million people, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees — are women and children, who are particularly vulnerable to gross violations of their human rights. We strongly believe that the international community has an obligation to more forcefully secure the right of return of these refugees to their places of residence. Cyprus welcomes the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Lebanon in accordance with resolution 425 (1978)of the Security Council. We would like to consider this as a harbinger of the achievement of a comprehensive solution to the Middle East question. Despite the temporary setback in the Israeli-Palestinian final-status negotiations, we believe that the process can and should move forward, so that peace, stability and prosperity will finally be established in this long- tormented region. Cyprus supports the implementation of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council in this respect. Cyprus fully supports Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) and calls for the full respect of the human rights of all the inhabitants of Kosovo, irrespective of their origin, as well as for the full respect for the sovereignty, the territorial integrity and the democratic process of all States in the region. We also commend the European Union for its considerable initiatives and support for the economic and political stabilization of South-Eastern Europe. We have been encouraged by the positive climate that has existed since the June meeting between the North and South Korean leaders. We express our support for further measures to achieve reconciliation, stability and cooperation in the Korean peninsula. We have been heartened by the prospect of reunification and of the termination of the division in this sensitive region. Cyprus fully supports the process for the establishment of an international criminal court and was one of the original signatories of the Rome Statute. We look forward to further progress in the work of the Preparatory Commission for the International Criminal Court and welcome the results of its last session regarding the consensus reached on the rules of procedure and evidence and the elements of crime. Our support stems from our firm belief that if we are to live in a world where justice and international law prevail, then impunity for abhorrent crimes against humanity should end immediately. Cyprus, itself a victim of such crimes, knows very well the bitter truth of impunity. For the last 26 years the General Assembly has included in its agenda the question of Cyprus. Decisions by this Assembly, in particular resolution 3212 (XXIX), as well as successive Security Council resolutions, call for the restoration of the territorial integrity, unity and independence of the Republic of Cyprus and the withdrawal of the Turkish troops and settlers from an independent country, Member of the United Nations, which was invaded in 1974 and whose territory, 37 per cent of it, is controlled by the Turkish occupation army. An attempt has been made from this rostrum to give a different version from and interpretation of the one upheld and understood by this General Assembly and by the Security Council. When one talks about the events of 1963, one should not forget the armed insurgency against the legal Government of the Republic and the deliberate decision of the Turkish Cypriot leadership to withdraw its representatives from Parliament and the organs of the Government, in order 25 to pave the way for the present de facto division of the island. Furthermore, it is well known and confirmed by the three reports of the European Commission of Human Rights, following appeals by the Republic of Cyprus against Turkey, that ethnic cleansing occurred in Cyprus in 1974 with the violent uprooting of one- third of the Cypriot population from their homes and their expulsion from the areas that are now under Turkish occupation. This is a classic example of a creation of faits accomplis through the use of force. Enough has already been said about history, and many recriminations were levelled by one side against the other. We have said time and again to our Turkish Cypriot compatriots, and we repeat to the Government of Turkey, that it is high time we looked to the future. A future bright and prosperous for all Cypriots, permeated by a spirit of reconciliation, in a peaceful, demilitarized and reunited Cyprus, member of the European Union, in which all Cypriots would live in conditions of peace, prosperity and the full protection of their human rights and fundamental freedoms. We want a future without occupation armies, without barbed wires of division and without human suffering. Indeed, how can one seriously claim that the massive Turkish military force which invaded and has continued to occupy 37 per cent of Cypriot territory for the last 26 years is a force of pacification and liberation? Had these forces been pacification or liberation troops, as Turkey tries to portray them, would the Security Council, which represents the collective wisdom of the international community, call repeatedly for their withdrawal? Moreover, how can anyone, speaking before this body, describe United Nations resolutions and their call to uphold and adhere to international law as romantic descriptions and unrealistic assessments? One further point that I would like to make is the reference to the so-called realities in Cyprus. We have been asked to accept, if we want to find a solution, these so-called realities on the ground. These realities are, of course, the result of the Turkish invasion and its dire consequences on the people of Cyprus. One such stark reality reflecting the ultimate aims of Turkey in Cyprus is the importation of 98,000 Turkish mainland settlers into the occupied areas in an effort to change the demographic structure of the island. Another reality is the mass emigration of our fellow Turkish Cypriots from the occupied areas and the constant threat posed by the 36,000 Turkish occupation troops stationed on the island. This threat is real and manifests itself from time to time through provocative actions on the ground. Such is the case of the Turkish advance in Strovilia, following the adoption last June of a resolution by the Security Council renewing the mandate of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP). This illegal action has been described by the United Nations Secretary-General as a clear violation of the status quo. The inability of the Organization to return the situation to the status quo ante tarnishes its image and credibility. Could one imagine the consequences for international relations, when nations are forced to accept solutions based on faits accomplis created and sustained through the use of military force and unilateral acts? Can we allow such a precedent to pave the way for the disintegration of so many countries around the globe? What, indeed, would be the consequences for small States in this kind of so-called international order, where international law is selectively applied and the will of the mighty reigns supreme? The one and only reality is the imperative need for peace and reconciliation in Cyprus through a mutually acceptable solution within the parameters of United Nations resolutions. We are currently engaged in the fourth round of proximity talks. We have come to these talks with flexibility and with the political will to reach a solution as prescribed by this Organization. We appeal to the Turkish side to seize the moment and capitalize on the current favourable environment in order to reach a comprehensive settlement. Such a settlement will be based on Security Council resolutions, which call for a bi-zonal, bi-communal Federal Republic of Cyprus, with a single sovereignty, citizenship and international personality, comprising two politically equal communities, as described in Security Council resolution 750 (1992). The Turkish side must realize that a solution must be mutually acceptable and based on international law, and it must not insist on imposing its will and on a solution based on faits accomplis. Our common aim should be a solution that would be honourable and something to be cherished by future generations of all Cypriots, Greek and Turkish alike, to whom our utmost purpose is to bequeath a better place to live in harmony, tolerance and cooperation. 26  Once again I shall rely on the kindness of those who interpret our speeches, since I am yet again putting them to the test of working without a written text. I shall switch between repetition and familiar issues, between deception and truth. First, repetition. As last year, the President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mr. Laurent-DÈsirÈ Kabila, has sent me to this very same rostrum to speak about the same issues. Once again our invaders and aggressors from Rwanda and Uganda in particular are in our country, and I shall speak about this again. This falls under the heading of repetition. I shall talk about this issue in the spirit and the letter of the principles of the United Nations. The letter is important insofar as it helps us make sense of this situation. I would suggest to delegations a small exercise regarding the reputedly historic work we do here. By playing with historic a little, by transposing a letter or two, another meaning can be found. I am awaiting the letter of the solution that the United Nations will adopt one day regarding the problem of the aggression against, and occupation of our country by, people who are here in this very Hall and who have spoken falsely yesterday and today. Uganda has said that it has come to my country in order to solve problems among the Congolese. Have the Ugandans come as tourists? Have they come as scientific researchers? We need to return to the letter of the definition of aggression. These people, who ordinarily are our neighbours, leave their country, cross our borders, come into our country and are occupying it even as I speak. And, as if they had not already gone too far, they have taken it upon themselves to say what we should do to settle the problems among the Congolese people. They do not talk about inter-Ugandan dialogue; they do not talk about inter-Rwandan dialogue. They talk about the inter-Congolese dialogue. Perhaps that is why they are slitting people's throats, massacring people, cutting off penises, burying women alive. They are planting fields of arms in the way that Van Gogh planted fields of sunflowers, burying women alive and leaving their arms sticking out of their graves with the idea of later harvesting arms. They have multiplied the number of Dachaus by thousands. They shut up our populations in their humble huts and then set the huts on fire. Perhaps this is their understanding of participating in a solution to the Congolese problem. Unjustifiably! It is a deception for the head of State of one of these countries to play around in New York and say We will not leave the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Notwithstanding the clear resolutions of the Security Council resolutions 1234 (1999) and 1304 (2000) which state plainly that the Rwandans, the Ugandans and Burundians must leave the Democratic Republic of the Congo, representatives of those countries come here and say We will not leave. These impostors come to this very building and dare to engage in such arm wrestling for the benefit of the 26 leaders and other representatives of the countries gathered here. I do not want someone to tell me even if it is true You have made a wonderful speech. I want to be told We shall report back to our Governments and heads of State what you said, because it is the truth: truth in response to deception. As the philosopher Spinoza said, Verum index sui et falsi; that is, truth is a touchstone both of the truth itself and of falsehood. One of our singers his name, Koffi Olomide, is worth remembering sings, in one of the languages that are well known to Africans who listen to Congolese music and from which I am translating: A lie takes the elevator, but the truth uses the stairs. The phrase is even prettier in Lingala. And so it is the lies of the aggressors have quickly arisen to fool people. They are trying to pass for little lambs, these people who are in a country that is not their own, where no one wants them to be and where they have not been invited. They are there. And they have the nerve to say We will not leave, notwithstanding the clear Security Council resolutions that enjoin them to leave our country without delay or conditions. I am repeating today what I said last year; however, I must repeat this because these people are still in my country and show no sign of leaving. They have outrageous plans, such as creating a Great Lakes Republic by cutting up our country and joining entire provinces of it to their countries. All of this will seem quite clear if you look at a map of my country. You will see that our 2.347 million square kilometres are located amid small asteroids that gravitate around it in some sort of Brownian motion. They enter our country, massacre people and, as I said earlier, shamelessly state that they are not going to leave. They believe that this lie will prevail because it has taken the lift, while our truth has to take the stairs. But I believe that our truth is making headway in your minds. Right is on our side. None of our own soldiers are in Kigali or in Kampala, but there is an unwanted multitude of foreign soldiers in my country, growing in number as well as in weaponry. No doubt they are there for tourism. Since we are embarking upon a historic millennium and we should consider the meaning of that adjective we must remind those people that they have to leave now, today. They should go home. They must not remain in my country because what they are doing is abominable. I have given the Assembly a Dantesque description of what these people are doing in my country, supposedly for peaceful reasons. They are massacring people, as I have stated. They are burying women alive and cutting off the penises of prisoners. This needs to be analysed. Why would anyone do that to prisoners? The lies in the lift will not tell you about that, but the stairway will. I hope you will inform your respective Governments of the realities of the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. People say it is complex, but in fact it is not complex at all. Those people are not in their country. They have crossed our borders, supposedly to secure their own borders and supposedly because the génocidaires are in my country, occasionally returning to their own countries to sow disorder. Once again, look at a map of our country. You will see that the asteroids that I mentioned, Rwanda in particular, have borders on Lake Kivu. It is a very small area that is the real border between us. If you look at the map, you will see that these asteroids, in order to secure their borders, have gone 2,000 kilometres beyond this real border, to the Atlantic, to start a war. We do not know how they manage to move their soldiers around because they do not have aeroplanes; however, know that they manage. They move heavy weaponry 2,000 kilometres in order to start a war, the purpose of which is to defend their borders 2,000 kilometres away. Who can possibly believe this? Who can claim that this is the truth? When you wish to defend and secure your border, you put your troops at your border so that others do not cross. There is yet another lie: they say that they are pursuing the perpetrators of the genocide that everyone remembers from 1994. They claim that they are pursuing them because they have hidden in our country. Well, these people occupy two provinces in the border area of our country and one other province that is even farther away, farther from the equator. They have never caught any génocidaires, living or dead. It would be a shock if they did. The Rwandans 27 are saying that there are génocidaires in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in order to justify their presence. However, they have never caught any. Why have they never caught a génocidaire? I think they are incapable of doing two things at once. Each Rwandan or Ugandan has only two hands, and those two hands are busy. Do you know what they are doing? They are taking our diamonds, copper, gold, precious wood and rare animals, which they do not have on their asteroids. And they are becoming diamond exporters. If you look at the stock exchange, you will see that Rwanda this month exported so many diamonds, but those diamonds are covered in the blood of the Congolese people. The gemocracy that employs them is doing the same thing in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Angola. One could say that the common denominator between those countries and ours is that we are under the thumb of gemocrats who prevent us from creating democracy. We have gemocrats against democrats. That is the deepest meaning to be found in these poor countries that wish to become rich through pillaging and plundering, which they do in the full light of day where everyone can see them. What is more surprising still is that nobody tells them to stop their plundering and go home. This is an absolute fraud, and it threatens our African brothers as well. A country that is one eightieth the size of ours, that not long ago, before Lumumba, held the reins of our country, dares to allow its justice system because in our country there are patriots and nationalists I come from a province near the Atlantic, 2,000 kilometres away from the Rwandan border. I see appear in my province people who are easily recognized by their phenotype, accompanied by some Congolese passing through the province on their way to Kinshasa. They even go to the airport to defend their borders, which are 2,000 kilometres away. Our patriots and nationalists stand up and do not welcome them. We tell them what we must tell them, as a true patriot would do in the face of the invader. That country, one eightieth the size of our own, allows its justice system to prosecute me, to issue an arrest warrant against me and to inform all other countries that if I go to their country, I should be arrested for crimes against humanity, just because I spoke as a patriot against those who have come into my country. One country, more powerful than the others, has asked, because of the thrashing it has received, to be allowed a corridor to the Atlantic. We do not know how these people got to the province of Kivu, which they have virtually annexed. They have changed the local administrators, appointed new governors and changed the telephone system. In order to call this province, you have to dial the code for Rwanda. This is well known. They even direct automobile traffic. In other words, they have completely taken over our province. Nonetheless, in their speeches they say they are in favour of the territorial integrity and political independence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. At the same time, though, they are appointing governors in our country, changing the names of our streets and making decisions as if it were their country. These countries have spilled blood in our jungle and dare to assume the right to tell us who our Minister for Foreign Affairs should be. In threatening my freedom of movement, perhaps they imagined that I would not manage to reach New York, but we have more than one trick up our sleeve. Here I am. I will leave New York and go wherever my President tells me to go. We hope that other countries that wish to maintain good relations with us will refuse to heed these uneducated judges. I say uneducated because I have urged our people to rise and crush the invaders and to make them eat their words, but these judges thought I had called for the invaders to be strangled. These judges are so uneducated they did not realize that I was quoting Voltaire. And now that I've admitted to quoting Voltaire, they will probably issue international arrest warrants for him, because they have no idea who he was. Who are these countries to appoint themselves universal judges and to prosecute people who are not their citizens for acts that were not committed in their territories? These judges do not rely on law since their position is indefensible but on the law of the jungle, because they are hunters. They made their pronouncements two years ago. They are like hunters who make no sound as they stalk their prey, but I too am silent. I have not been warned or notified, but INTERPOL knows it must arrest me if it gets its hands on me. They have been just like big game hunters. Everyone knows what happened to our Prime Minister, Mr. Lumumba. In the tragedy in which a Secretary-General of the United Nations lost his life, the people one person in particular who carried 28 out that dirty work dissolved Lumumba's body in sulphuric acid. Perhaps they are after me now because they are suffering a shortage of sulphuric acid. This gentlemen kept one of Lumumba's teeth as a talisman and displayed it on television, admitting that they had dismembered Lumumba's body, dissolved it in sulphuric acid and kept his tooth as a charm. These universal judges have not been moved to prosecute the person who boasts of having dissolved Lumumba's body and kept one of his teeth. I think these people intend to open a museum some time soon and to grow rich charging admission to see Lumumba's tooth. My African brothers may also be prosecuted when people arrogating the right to appoint members of Government issue warrants for them. That is why my brothers should not remain silent. They are foreign ministers and the same thing could happen to them. They should react. They should not think of me as someone who is uneducated. These countries must be prevented from acting beyond their rights. No one assigned them the task of running the world's affairs through their own brand of justice. I do not wish to linger on this ridiculous topic, but I would go even further in discussing truth and mendacity. Everyone is convinced that we are erecting obstacles to the diplomatic work of the United Nations, but Lumumba's tooth should be a sign that we have historical reasons for our actions. What goes around comes around. I recognize that we have been very particular about how the United Nations forces may be deployed, but we have acceded to the Organization's wishes. We agreed to the Mission and to the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, although the fire has yet to cease. People persist in believing in the validity of the Agreement, but it was signed on 10 July 1999 and the fires are still burning today and the war continues. Still, people keep talking about the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement. Well, the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement designates the invaders, the aggressors, as parties. These parties signed the Agreement, but Security Council resolution 1304 (2000) implies that they are the aggressors and enjoins them to leave my country. Thus, they are no longer parties, but aggressors who should leave as soon as possible. Moreover, their Congolese puppets are playing the role of Trojan horse. These invaders have exploited certain Congolese supporters of Mobutu to justify their invasion of our country and their aggression. Now, one of these asteroids is giving shelter to Mobutu's former soldiers. They are training in Kampala and their aim of returning to Kinshasa has been openly declared. One large country is helping others to build military bases on our borders and is training their soldiers in order to increase tourism in our country. We must be vigilant. We must act to ensure the implementation of the United Nations resolutions. We would tell the United Nations that, in order to be more effective and to have a greater chance of success, it must implement its own resolutions. I would express the hope that I shall not have to return here next year to repeat yet again that the Rwandans are still in my country, sowing death and pillaging our land. The United Nations must finally implement its own resolutions. How can it do so? It can compel the Ugandans and Rwandans to return to their homes. We do not want them in our country. They are our eternal neighbours, asteroids that orbit our planet. Let them go home. Let them talk to us. We want this war to end as all others do: with negotiations. The Second World War ended in negotiations; the war in Algeria ended in negotiations between France and the National Liberation Front; the war in Viet Nam ended in negotiations between the host country here and the Vietnamese; the war between Protestants and Catholics in Northern Ireland, which has broken all endurance records, is showing signs of ending soon. How? Through negotiations between the Catholics and the Protestants. Just the other day, in reference to another topic, I mentioned that Security Council resolution 242 (1967) was adopted over 40 years ago, but that it is only now beginning to be implemented. Now, we are not going to wait 40 years for our Clinton and our Camp David. The United Nations must implement its resolutions immediately. It must support us to ensure that the aggressors, whatever they may say, go home. They are not at home. We do not want them in our country. They must go home. The Second World War erupted after a long incubation. We now see hope for perpetual peace following that war, but I agree with Paul …luard that we must be vigilant because the womb that bore the vile beast is still fertile. We want all men, even our enemies, to be our brothers. We want to rebuild our country, which was dismantled by the excesses of 29 Mobutu. Like luard, we want to turn water into light and, as I said, to make every man our brother. That is my message to the Assembly. I repeat: do not tell me (spoke in English) You have made a wonderful speech. (spoke in French) Say We have understood your message and we shall tell our Governments to implement the relevant United Nations resolutions immediately so that the aggressors go home. Please help us to talk with them, in order to put an end to this war, which should end as all wars end. Some of us lost all our hair waiting for the blessed day, 17 May 1997, after 32 years of activity. Look at President Kabila's head and mine; we can be recognized by our advanced baldness, which came about while we were waiting for the moment when we could re-enter Kinshasa. So, my African brothers and my brothers from other countries, including many from Latin America, I conclude with a Spanish saying. I do not wish to translate it, so those who do not understand will have to stop a Spanish-speaking colleague and ask What did he say?: (spoke in Spanish) When your neighbour's house is on fire, watch out for your own house.Allow me first to associate myself with the statement by my colleague, the French Minister for Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the European Union. May I also congratulate you, Mr. Vice-President, and through you, President Holkeri, on your election to preside over this millennium Assembly. A few days ago, leaders from all over the world gathered at the Millennium Summit. They gathered to reaffirm their faith in the Charter and to give direction to the United Nations in the twenty-first century. The Charter remains as relevant as ever with its mandate to promote peace and security, create an international community based on the rule of law, uphold respect for human rights and promote social development. The new millennium brings new challenges to the United Nations in an ever more globalized world. Increased communication between countries and peoples reinforces the need for common norms of social and economic behaviour. The global United Nations conferences within the last decade bear witness to the value of the United Nations as a unique norm setting forum. The follow up conferences to the social Summit in Copenhagen and the Beijing Conference on Women are cases in point. These United Nations summits have advanced our understanding of the interaction between peace, development and human rights. The United Nations process on financing for development offers an opportunity for renewed commitment and action. The relationship between social development and promotion of human rights is today recognized. The best preventive action against conflict and strife is to ensure sound economic and social development based on good governance, respect for human rights and protection of minorities. An encouraging and innovative feature is the decision adopted by the Economic and Social Council in July to establish a permanent forum on indigenous issues thereby advancing the aspirations of indigenous peoples. The Danish Government and the home rule Government of Greenland welcome this recent development. We will actively support the work of the permanent forum. I welcome the fact that the Security Council has shown increasing attention to humanitarian issues. The open meeting in the Council on Africa in January gave new prominence to the humanitarian challenges for this continent. In the past year, the Council has taken up issues as diverse as AIDS in Africa, protection of civilians in armed conflicts and children in armed conflict. These initiatives increase our awareness of the root causes of conflict. The international community must shoulder its responsibility in relation to the AIDS epidemic in sub- Saharan Africa. The rapid spread of HIV/AIDS could seal the fate of more than 30 million Africans over the next five years and epidemic undermines decades of development efforts and dissolves the social texture of nations. It could destabilize entire regions. The AIDS epidemic is not a local problem. It is a matter of security of global importance. Africa has enormous potential but millions continue to survive on less than one dollar a day. The growing transfer of private capital rarely flows to the countries in Africa. We must do more to integrate Africa into the world economy. Trade opportunities must be improved. We must give free access to the markets of industrialized countries, as well as to products where African countries have a genuine competitive advantage. The legal framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO) must take into account the special difficulties of developing countries. Trade-related technical assistance must be improved. Peace and security, we know, are fundamental conditions for economic and social development. War, internal strife and political unrest have devastated large parts of Africa, causing untold human suffering and destruction. No one should expect easy solutions, but we must work together to prevent and resolve armed conflicts in Africa. We witness an increased African effort in the field of peace and security. The international community must support this trend through our active involvement. We must assist in capacity-building by relevant African organizations, and by backing United Nations peacekeeping efforts. Africa itself must create the conditions for international involvement. We welcome the initiatives by the Security Council to create common ground for United Nations peacekeeping operations by inviting the parties involved to discussions and special sessions of the Council in New York. Although the Camp David talks did not bring about an agreement in the Middle East, they represented a major step forward. They helped to narrow down differences on key issues. A breakthrough has never before seemed so close at hand. Time, however, is quickly running out. I urge the parties to seize this historic opportunity. I salute the political courage displayed by the Israeli and the Palestinian leadership in their efforts to achieve a durable solution. I welcome the recent decision by the Palestinian Central Council to defer the decision on the question of statehood in the interest of further negotiations. Democracy is a peacemaker. Democracies are much less prone to violent conflicts. The Secretary- General recently called attention to what he called fig leaf democracies. The fig leaf of elections does not by itself turn a dictatorship into a democracy. Elections can even lead to a backlash as frustrations rise and tensions turn into violence. Denmark increasingly turns her efforts towards the prevention and management of violent conflicts in line with our comprehensive engagement in developing countries and active involvement in United Nations peacekeeping activities. We will strengthen this ability to react quickly and effectively. We will also continue to support regional cooperation also when it comes to countering the uncontrolled spread of small arms. Landmines are substantial obstacles to development. Increased efforts by the United Nations, Governments and non- governmental organizations are necessary. Right now, new momentum is needed. The second meeting of States Parties to the Ottawa Convention provides an important opportunity. Peace operations are no longer a question of merely keeping the warring parties apart or monitoring ceasefires. They are a comprehensive and complex undertaking involving disarmament, demobilization of combatants, supervision of elections, monitoring of human rights and training of local police among others. We must enable the United Nations to adapt to the new realities, do things better and avoid such failures as happened in Rwanda. I fully support the recommendations in the Brahimi Report on United Nations peace operations. We must provide stronger political and financial support to the Organization. I welcome the proposed shift towards the use of civilian police and the rule of law, as I welcome the focus on rapid deployment of military and civilian personnel. Police and judicial experts are indispensable to rebuilding the economy in civil society, and their work must be based on a solid peace-building strategy. Close cooperation between the United Nations and other international organizations is called for. We must establish a partnership between the United Nations and regional actors. Last year the Secretary-General called upon Member States to pursue more effective policies to stop 33 organized mass murder and violations of human rights. I fully support this view. We cannot leave large groups of people unaided where national authorities do not live up to their responsibilities. Conflicts in Kosovo and East Timor raise serious questions with regard to some of the classic principles of international law, the principle of State sovereignty, the principle of respect for human rights and the principle of the non-use of force in international relations. On the one hand, we had a basic rule of international law incorporated into the United Nations Charter ó that the use of force in international relations is prohibited unless authorized by the Security Council or in self-defence. On the other hand, many countries find that there is a political and moral obligation to act in the face of atrocities causing large-scale human suffering within another State. There is no clear-cut solution to this dilemma. But surely no legal principle, including sovereignty, can be used as a shield to commit crimes against humanity and other serious violations of human rights. The Security Council has a moral obligation to act on behalf of the international community. We must remember that the United Nations was founded, in the words of the Charter, in order to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights. Any intervention reflects a failure of prevention. As a last resort, the international community must have the ability to act in the face of organized mass murder or ethnic-cleansing, even if the Security Council is blocked. The challenge is to keep open the option of humanitarian intervention without Security Council authorization in extreme cases, but to do so without jeopardizing the international legal order. We must ensure that the Security Council functions as effectively as possible. If not, the influence of the Council will be diminished. The permanent members of the Security Council should apply the right of veto only in matters of vital importance. Therefore, I reiterate my proposal to establish a procedural rule; a rule according to which a permanent member of the Security Council would have to state the reasons why it has decided to exercise its right of veto in a given situation. Furthermore, the Member State should state on which grounds it considers that matters of vital importance are at stake. I hope that this idea can be further developed and that it can gain broad support. I have addressed new challenges and possibilities at the start of the new millennium. Let me end by reminding this Assembly that old challenges still need to be addressed. Weapons of mass destruction are a lethal legacy of the cold war. They need our continued attention. Certain States are still pursuing the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction and building a missile capacity. There is a need for further improvement of the international non-proliferation regimes. Peace, development and human rights have been the essentials in the work of the United Nations from the very beginning. They remain essential. The primary responsibility for a more peaceful, prosperous and just world rests with Governments, but the United Nations is here to help us. The Millennium Summit confirmed our common will to work together as truly united nations. I cannot leave this Assembly without expressing my deep concern at the situation in Burma. The treatment of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi is a disgrace, and I call on the regime in Burma to immediately restore Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's freedom of speech, movement and communication.I have the honour to convey to you, on behalf of the United Arab Emirates, our sincere congratulations and regards on your election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that your experience in international affairs will contribute to the success of this session's proceedings. We also thank your predecessor, His Excellency the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for the efficient manner in which 16 he directed the work of the previous session. I would also like to express our appreciation to Secretary- General Kofi Annan for his prudent leadership and for the efforts he exerts to strengthen the role of the United Nations in maintaining peace, security and stability in the world. The convening of the Millennium Summit a few days ago in this world forum was a clear embodiment of the political will of the leaders of the world to deal effectively with the problems and challenges that face the international community, such as the proliferation of proscribed weapons, armed conflicts and increasing poverty and debt, as well as other attendant transnational issues, such as drugs, organized crime, international terrorism, environmental pollution, persistent violations of human rights and the disparities resulting from globalization and information technology. The consequences of these prevailing conditions have, more than ever before, reinforced our awareness of the importance of adhering to the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and of consolidating the rule of international law through the peaceful settlement of disputes, respect for the principle of equality and the right to self- determination, as well as of strengthening the spirit of cooperation and tolerance among the different cultures, beliefs and legacies of the various civilizations, for achieving the desired security, stability and human development. The United Arab Emirates reiterates its welcome of the border treaties concluded between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and both the State of Kuwait and the Republic of Yemen, as an important political and historic event that will promote confidence-building measures and good neighbourly relations. At the same time, we call upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to follow the example of those fraternal States and to respond to our peaceful initiatives that call for either entering into direct and serious bilateral negotiations aimed at finding a peaceful solution for ending Iran's occupation of our three islands Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, or agreeing to submit the dispute to the International Court of Justice. In this context, we would like to reaffirm that all actions and measures taken unilaterally by the Islamic Republic of Iran on those three islands and its continued construction of military and civilian installations on them, are illegal measures considered null and void, and do not establish or entail any legal rights, regardless of the duration of the occupation. In fact, they represent a violation of the territorial sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates and contravene the principles and purposes of the Charters of both the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, as well as declared Iranian peaceful intentions in the region. More than a year has elapsed since the Gulf Cooperation Council entrusted a tripartite Ministerial Committee, composed of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Sultanate of Oman and the State of Qatar, with developing a mechanism for direct negotiations between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Iran has not yet responded to any of the endeavours of that Committee, thus preventing the reinforcement of the foundations of peace and security in the Arab Gulf region. Despite the fact that almost ten years have elapsed since the end of the second Gulf War, the Arab Gulf region is still experiencing the negative effects of that War. Consequently, it is imperative that political and diplomatic efforts continue in order to find a peaceful solution that would lead to ending the human suffering of the Iraqi people. At the same time, we invite the Iraqi Government to cooperate by completely fulfilling its obligations, particularly those relating to the release of Kuwaiti and other countries' prisoners of war or detainees and to the restitution of Kuwaiti property, in implementation of the resolutions of the Security Council. In this regard, we would like to underline the importance of respecting the national sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of both Iraq and Kuwait, as well as refraining from the threat or use of force, in order to ensure the entrenchment of security and stability in the region. The Middle East peace process recently witnessed important developments during which major efforts were exerted with the objective of arriving at equitable and fair solutions based on the resolutions of international legitimacy and the principle of land for peace. Yet, despite all those efforts and all the flexible and constructive proposals put forward by the Palestinian side for finding a comprehensive and just solution to the Palestine issue in all its aspects, the Israeli Government persisted in its positions of procrastination, delay and stalling, and in failing to 17 abide by the agreements it had concluded with the Palestinian side. Thus, in affirming our position of solidarity with the fraternal Palestinian people and their leadership, represented by the Palestinian Authority, we renew our call to the co-sponsors of the peace process — in particular the United States of America — and the other active States to continue exerting political and diplomatic efforts that support and promote negotiations between the Palestinian and Israeli sides, with the aim of finding a just and comprehensive settlement of the Palestine issue. In particular this settlement should resolve the issues of Al-Quds Al- Sharif and the refugees, on the basis of Security Council resolutions, especially resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). This should enable the Palestinian people to exercise their legitimate and inalienable rights to return to their homeland and to establish their own independent State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Also in this context we reaffirm our unceasing support of the position of sisterly Syria in its efforts to regain its Golan territory up to the line of 4 June 1967. We call on the international community to demand that Israel resume negotiations on the Syrian track on the basis of relevant United Nations resolutions, in the interest of attaining peace, stability and growth for all the States and peoples of the region. The United Arab Emirates, in welcoming once again fraternal Lebanon's regaining of its territory, expresses support for Lebanon's efforts to complete the extension of its sovereignty over all of its national soil. In the same vein, we support the demands of sisterly Libya that the economic sanctions imposed on it be lifted, particularly since it has implemented relevant Security Council resolutions. We also express our satisfaction at the outcome of the recent Somali reconciliation conference in Djibouti and invite all Somali factions to reinforce national unity for the sake of restoring peace, stability and sustainable development to Somalia and the rest of the region of the Horn of Africa. The growing number of problems resulting from the continuation of wars, disputes and ethnic cleansing in some parts of the African continent, the Balkans, South Asia, Afghanistan and other places is a source of constant concern for the international community. Consequently, we support all regional and international efforts aimed at dealing with these issues by peaceful means, and we emphasize that just and lasting resolution of these issues cannot be attained until the parties concerned demonstrate the necessary political will to achieve national reconciliation and demonstrate their commitment to implement relevant Security Council resolutions. Despite international unanimity, shown in the Disarmament Conference and other international forums, regarding the need to limit the spread of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons, progress in this field remains slow, which is a matter of concern to us. We are particularly concerned at this time as some States are striving to outdo each other in stockpiling certain classes of these weapons, in particular nuclear arms and ballistic missiles, as a means of settling their territorial disputes. Since such actions escalate conflicts and disrupt the strategic security balance, at both the regional and international levels, we call upon the States concerned to review their policies in this respect and to promote the establishment of zones that are free of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons, especially in the Middle East, the Arab Gulf and the Indian Ocean. We also urge the international community to demand once again that the Israeli Government accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and agree to subject its nuclear facilities to International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards. Despite the multidimensional changes that the world economy is witnessing as a result of the deregulation of markets, globalization and modern technology, the economic and social gap between the developed and developing States still exists and is growing — thereby exacerbating poverty and unemployment, environmental degradation and debt accumulation. Thus, the convening of the Millennium Summit and the Summit's Declaration highlight the great importance our countries attach to these issues. This makes it incumbent on all of us to work assiduously on carrying out the commitments and undertakings contained therein regarding the creation of an environment favourable to development, elimination of poverty and free access for the exports of the least developed countries to the markets of industrialized countries. I confirm the determination of the United Arab Emirates to support this plan and to 18 work towards narrowing the gap between the rich and the poor. The United Arab Emirates continues its sustained efforts in support of economic- and social-development projects in many countries of the world, particularly in Africa and Asia, be it through direct participation in financing such projects or by supporting international and regional efforts to attain those goals. Finally, the ever-increasing burden of economic, social and human development, which is the first safeguard of the political stability that we desire, demands that mechanisms for regional and international cooperation, foremost among which is the United Nations, be created. Hence, we call for continued efforts to carry out the structural reform and development of the world Organization, in particular the Security Council and the General Assembly, so that the Organization can keep pace with the rapid changes in international relations.Let me first welcome Tuvalu as a new Member of the United Nations. The current session of the General Assembly is an important landmark for the international community. We are still feeling the beat of the Millennium Summit. Our crucial task now is to seek specific ways to implement the provisions of its final Declaration. In his address to the Summit, President Alyaksandr Lukashenka of Belarus clearly defined an ultimate objective, as we see it, for shaping the image of the United Nations in the twenty-first century, which is to meet the needs and aspirations of our respective nations and seek practical opportunities for real improvement of the quality of life of every single individual. This is the imperative that reality has been dictating to us. It is also the main thrust of the Secretary-General's report (A/54/2000) “We, the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty- first century”. Belarus holds in high respect the unique historic role played by the United Nations in international developments of the second half of the twentieth century. As can be seen from all the Organization's previous experience, a stable, just and prosperous world can only be attained on the basis of the sovereign equality of States, their territorial integrity and political independence, non-interference in their internal affairs 20 and respect for national traditions. Humanity has had to confront conflict and humanitarian stress every time those principles were disregarded. We believe that they will continue to be of similar importance in the next century. Just as was the case 55 years ago, there is hardly a more pressing task for the United Nations than the maintenance of international peace. All Member States have equal rights to peaceful and sustainable development. Thus the security of no State, whether small island country or super-Power, can be achieved through disrespect for the interests of others. The Republic of Belarus is committed to its choice of a nuclear-weapon-free world. We believe in the generosity and great meaning of the initiative by the head of our State to establish a nuclear-weapon-free space in Central and Eastern Europe. We are confident that in due time this idea will receive a sufficient number of proponents. During this session Belarus has deposited its instruments for ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the additional Protocol to the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons, the Protocol on Blinding Laser Weapons. At the same time, a continuing absence of visible consensus within the United Nations on the key issues of the international disarmament process is becoming a dismaying reality. To exit this dead end would essentially require setting priorities and embarking upon an active dialogue aimed at achieving progress in both nuclear and conventional disarmament. Five million victims over the past decade — is this not serious enough to make real action imperative? It is crucial to maintain and consolidate the strategic global parity built under the complex conditions of the twentieth century. In this regard, preservation of and respect for the Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty is a logical basis for the maintenance of international stability. Its violation could result in an extremely dangerous disruption of the established set of interdependent agreements in this area. The Republic of Belarus will again sponsor the resolution on the ABM Treaty during this session. The time-span between the two most recent sessions of the General Assembly has been marked by the United Nations active involvement in the peaceful settlement of disputes, post-conflict peace-building and rehabilitation. We observe with satisfaction the actions taken by the Security Council, more resolutely and consistently than in the past, with respect to such complex situations as conflicts in Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia and Eritrea, Angola and East Timor. My country has been following with hope the developments in the Middle East. We believe that the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Southern Lebanon and the Palestinian-Israeli peace talks will favour the resolution of the crisis in the region. For over a quarter of a century attempts have been made to break a stalemate in the settlement of the Cyprus problem. It is crucial that the United Nations continue its work to resolve this crisis on the basis of the appropriate resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly. The development of specific preventive measures for the elimination of root causes of potential conflicts should be the focus of United Nations attention in the near future. It is important to make irreversible the growing trend in international efforts to define universal mechanisms and specify practical measures of conflict prevention and crisis management. The activities of the Panel of experts headed by Ambassador Brahimi, in addition to the upcoming Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, are an important contribution thereto. As the Secretary-General has rightly observed, the very credibility of the Organization as regards playing a decisive role in the war and peace process is at stake. In this respect, the Republic of Belarus has been and remains firmly committed to the preservation of the primary role played by the Security Council in decision-making on actions to avert threats to peace and security. Viewed from that perspective, further improvement in the working methods of the Council and reform of its membership on the basis of equitable geographic representation are not merely an important task, but a pressing imperative. Belarus reconfirms its determination to constructively contribute to the activities of the Council should my country be elected as a non- permanent member for the period 2002-2003. The tremendous benefits of globalization will be reduced to nothing unless there is a clear understanding of the dire need for the international community to learn a common language — that is, the language of 21 law. In recent years we have witnessed practical demonstrations of situations in which even the slightest deviation from internationally accepted norms would inevitably present an extreme danger not only for the violators themselves, but also for the entire international community. It is an encouraging fact that since its outset the United Nations has gained significant potential by accumulating all the far- reaching ideas, hopes and aspirations of humankind for building a better world. Implementing the norms of international law at the national level should become a priority for the United Nations and its partners. Today my country is a party to the United Nations most important conventions and treaties. The establishment of a legislative model based on the United Nations Charter and international treaties and conventions, complemented by national legislation, is the objective we must all strive for. The stability of the interdependent world is hardly attainable when the system of international politics is perceived solely as the domination of one State or interaction among separate groups of States. Differences in social and economic advancement will persist for a long time. Therefore, in a globalizing world the United Nations should play a more active role in promoting the economic development and social progress of all countries. Belarus supports a sharper focus in international efforts on the problems of the developing countries, particularly in Africa. We also deem it expedient to take into account the needs of countries with economies in transition, which would by no means soften the focus on the problems of the developing world. We see no contradiction in such an interlinkage, as appropriate goals and objectives to this end could only be formulated jointly with the United Nations. The Republic of Belarus shares the apprehensions expressed by many States over the environmental future of our planet. In this regard, we perceive as highly indicative the debates at the Millennium Summit and at the Summit meeting of the Security Council. Belarus has signed and ratified a number of important international agreements in the area of environmental protection, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Biological Diversity. Against this background, we continue to be acutely sensitive to the ever-diminishing interest by the international community in the Chernobyl disaster, the world's largest technological catastrophe of the past century, to which Belarus fell a major victim. In this regard, I should like to quote once more from the address by the President of our country at the Millennium Summit: “Without awareness of our joint responsibility for preserving the common human environment, all discussions of a fair distribution of the benefits and disadvantages of globalization will remain just shallow talk.” (A/55/PV.4) We are confident that the United Nations, which has so far contributed significantly to assisting our people in the relevant area, will be in a position to find new sources and mechanisms to help Belarus overcome the Chernobyl tragedy. The ideas of democracy and respect for human rights can certainly play a key role in continuous human development in the twenty-first century. Yet to make this goal attainable, it is essential to relinquish attempts to use those principles to discriminate among peoples and “punish” unwelcome States and Governments. Regrettably, we must note a certain involvement by the United Nations in efforts to establish a “club of countries of advanced democracy” on the basis of some random criteria. It is inadmissible that the idea of the forum of new and restored democracies approved within our Organization should lead to the separation of peoples into teachers and pupils. The principle standpoint of Belarus on this issue is the following: a truly democratic world can only be based on an equal dialogue among different civilizations. This year is of special significance to the development of democracy in my country. Parliamentary elections due in October will be held in full conformity with democratic standards. We have invited international observers to monitor the elections and look forward to seeing them carried out and contributing in real terms to democratic development in Belarus. Each session of the United Nations General Assembly is a milestone in the evolution of the United Nations itself and the development of the system of international politics as a whole. In that sense, the current session has been endowed with very special 22 powers. It is up to us all to determine how much the United Nations will be able to show that the hopes and aspirations of our nations at the dawn of the new century were justified. In the discharge of these noble duties, the international community can invariably count on a due contribution by the Republic of Belarus.I wish to extend my congratulations to Mr. Harri Holkeri and his country, Finland, on his election to the high office of President of the fifty-fifth session of the United Nations General Assembly. His experience and the respect accorded him by the international community will certainly ensure that the matters of this Assembly are conducted with efficiency and urgency. I should also like to express my delegation's appreciation for the very competent manner in which his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, presided over the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. The recently concluded Millennium Assembly was exceptional for the number of world leaders who attended that historic event. The Declaration adopted at its conclusion sets forth laudable values and principles for the guidance of the international community. Further, it documents the goals that must be achieved and the challenges that must be met if we are to succeed in creating a better world for all citizens of our global village. But the Declaration is also a strikingly sad chronicle of the deplorable and degrading conditions that affect the lives of most of the world's population: debilitating and abject poverty, economic deprivation, oppression and injustice, inadequate or non-existent health care in the face of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, victimization on the basis of ethnicity, children without educational opportunities but with daily experiences of hunger, lack of fresh and clean water and uncertain prospects of ever escaping depressing and unhealthy surroundings. These conditions were not newly discovered immediately prior to the Millennium Assembly. Indeed, they have been the subjects of United Nations resolutions at successive sessions of the General Assembly in the past. While there has been some amelioration in some areas, largely through the efforts of the United Nations and its agencies, there has been noticeable deterioration in others. The challenge that faces the United Nations, and the international community in particular, is to go beyond the concerns expressed, the affirmations and resolutions and demonstrate in tangible and effective ways a commitment to serious engagement in a concerted effort to bring about meaningful change in the lives of the many poor people among us. As the Commonwealth of Dominica and other small States embark on the difficult road of raising the living standards of their citizens, we find the task made much more difficult by the negative impact of the twin forces of liberalization and globalization. Globalization and trade liberalization operate to the advantage of the rich and developed countries, which have the requisite institutional and human resource capability and are well placed to reap the benefits and rewards that accrue from these processes. For small countries like my own, with very limited ability to carry out proper exploitation and to deal with current economic forces, globalization has resulted in greater inequality and marginalization and a widening gap between rich and poor nations. That is the unavoidable result, since the proverbial levelling of the playing field is in reality non-existent. And the countries benefiting from the process seem to have no interest in making sure that all nations, rich and poor, have an equal opportunity to be engaged in harnessing the opportunities presented by economic and scientific innovations and by the revolution in telecommunications and information technology. Compounding this problem is the disturbing and alarming tendency of the rich and powerful to fashion international trade rules and organizations with the purported intention of liberalizing trade but which in reality have resulted in creating a decisive edge in international commerce for themselves. Those who advance the concept of free trade as the most efficient vehicle for income enhancement in developing countries continue to cling to protectionist policies for selected items of trade while simultaneously engaged in a determined effort to deny market access that 30 provides some small measure of special or differential treatment for our exports. A clear case in point is the World Trade Organization (WTO) and what it represents for the Commonwealth of Dominica and other small banana- producing countries in the Caribbean and elsewhere. We have traditionally, over a period of 50 years, exported our bananas to the European market, under special rules that made allowances for the particular circumstances of small State size, or difficult terrain and high cost of production. In the interpretation and application of its rules, the WTO is not minded to craft decisions that promote equity and fairness among parties of unequal standing. But that is the logical expectation for an organization that was evidently established to decide disputes among equals and on whose dispute panels, particularly at the appellate levels, the advanced countries are predominantly represented. The ruling of the WTO in the dispute with respect to the European Union's banana import regime has resulted in economic uncertainty in the Windward Islands, a situation made all the more damaging by the continuing inability of the parties to agree on a formula for making the regime compatible with WTO rules. My country holds firmly to the view that adopting either of the current proposals being considered to resolve the banana dispute would result in economic stagnation and dislocation for the banana-exporting countries in the Caribbean, particularly of course in the Eastern Caribbean, as well as Jamaica, Belize and Suriname. We therefore urge the parties concerned to explore a compromise solution that would allow Dominica and other banana-producing countries to continue to export bananas to the European Union at prices that are fair and reasonable. Equal trade and fair prices are what we ask for, not handouts. Our suffering farmers ask for no more. Meanwhile, our diversification efforts are being accelerated while we stand square and firm in support of our farmers. My delegation calls for a speedy resolution to this impasse, as we view the application by the United States of trade sanctions against some members of the European Union as counterproductive and not conducive to reaching a fair and negotiated settlement. The threatened carousel approach to imposing those sanctions is punitive and a pressure device, unfair to those European countries. At a time when there is a real prospect of our losing our market in bananas and as we explore avenue of economic diversification, our fledgling financial services sector has been subjected, since June last year, to a potentially serious attack from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The OECD alleged that several Caribbean countries, including my own, are guilty of establishing and maintaining tax havens. These countries were also condemned for having competitive tax regimes and for their unwillingness to undertake to eliminate policies that the OECD unilaterally determined to be harmful to its members. The Commonwealth of Dominica believes that the unilateral formulations contained in the OECD report are inconsistent with international practice and are designed to impede the development of the competitive capacity of the Caribbean jurisdictions in the provision of offshore financial services. We believe that international rules and practices must evolve from genuine consultative practices and must be democratically applied on the basis of accepted principles and norms in the international community. We take the view that the report is simply one more example of small developing States being coerced into complying with rules, standards and practices promulgated by advanced States to advance the protection of their economies while ours continue to deteriorate. We are committed to the establishment of adequate legislative and regulatory frameworks necessary to insulate the sector from illegal activities. We are also ready to work with the Financial Action Task Force to address any legitimate concerns they may have. However, we do not intend to surrender our sovereign right to act in the best economic interests of our citizens, nor will we be deterred from doing so by threats of any kind from any quarter. While our efforts at improving our export earnings are being undermined and our financial services sector comes under serious scrutiny, the development programmes and strategies of the Commonwealth of Dominica continue to be affected by the continuing decline in official development assistance (ODA). The expectation that foreign direct investment would bridge the gap has not materialized, notwithstanding the strides we have made in providing a climate of good governance, openness and stable, democratic practice, which, we were told, were the prerequisites for investment development. 31 The simple truth is that the more advanced developing countries have benefited disproportionately from the tremendous increase in foreign direct investment over the last decade, with the small and less developed States receiving little or nothing at all. There must be an understanding that if small developing States are to embark successfully on the road to sustainable economic development without the benefit of foreign direct investment, official development assistance is indispensable to that process and the declining trend in the provision of official development assistance must perforce and necessarily be reversed. The most deadly threat to our human resource base and to our population at large is the contagion of HIV/AIDS. This disease takes a heavy toll not only in lives but also in social and economic terms, and the countries most affected are the least able to deal with the consequences. Statistics from the recent world conference on HIV/AIDS indicate that sub-Saharan Africa has the highest rate of infection in the world, with the Caribbean coming a close second. This is not an African or Caribbean problem, however. Global in scope and impact, the HIV/AIDS pandemic warrants global attention and action. The Commonwealth of Dominica believes that as a first immediate step there must come into being a partnership between the pharmaceutical manufacturers and the stakeholders in the international community, with the express purpose of ensuring that less costly HIV/AIDS medication is readily available to those most in need. Simultaneously, there must be increased efforts at raising awareness and consciousness of the crisis and the preventive measures available, while a dedicated commitment to the development of an AIDS vaccine must be matched by increasing funding for research. In 1994, the Commonwealth of Dominica participated in the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and there reaffirmed our commitment to sustainable development programmes that enhance the quality of the lives of peoples, including their health, well-being and safety. The task ahead of us is to ensure that the measures and the resources of small island developing States — the oceans, coastal environments, biodiversity and human resources — are utilized in a sustainable manner that will be to the advantage of present and future generations, as it is our responsibility to preserve them. My country shares with small island developing States the problem of the safe disposal of solid and liquid waste. It has been recognized that this lack of capacity results in marine pollution and coastal degradation. Our position is consistent with the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development that small island developing States will be constrained in meeting the challenges that face them if they do not have the cooperation and assistance of the international community. As the United Nations meets for the first General Assembly of the new century, the delegation of the Commonwealth of Dominica wishes to address once again the issue of democratic representation in the United Nations for the people of the Republic of China. It is a concern to my delegation that the Republic of China, with a democratically elected Government and a population of 23 million, is unable to participate in our deliberations. The Republic of China is a model of democracy in Asia and is more than able to carry out the obligations of our Charter. Over the past few decades, the Republic of China has proved itself to be a good world citizen, using its own economic development to generously assist in alleviating debilitating poverty through economic assistance programmes in many needy developing countries. The situation of the Republic of China should be addressed to ensure participation in the work and activities of our organization and its agencies as a valued member of the international community. My delegation calls for this fifty-fifth General Assembly to be a new beginning for the United Nations. Rejuvenated by the unprecedented sharing of vision that we witnessed during the Millennium Summit, let us utilize those ideas, proposals, suggestions and criticisms to chart a way forward for the United Nations that will allow it to meet the needs and challenges of this new century. Let us look towards a new vision for a future that will incorporate the weak and strong, the rich and poor and the developed and developing world, so that none will be marginalized. Let us collaborate in achieving the objectives of the Secretary-General's millennium report of freedom from fear and freedom from want. Let us include all Members — developed, developing and least developed — in the decision-making process 32 so that all can share a future based on the premises laid down by our forebears in the Charter of the United Nations. On behalf of the people and the Government of Thailand, I would like to extend my warm congratulations to you, Sir, upon your election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that under your able guidance, we shall be able to build upon the momentum generated by the Millennium Summit and enjoy a successful and result-oriented General Assembly session. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia, the President of the fifty-fourth session, for his leadership and tireless efforts throughout the past year. His wisdom and dedication to the tasks of our Assembly enabled him to serve as an effective bridge between the last session and the Millennium Summit, thus laying a firm foundation for our work this year. On this occasion, may I, on behalf of the people and the Government of Thailand, extend a warm welcome to Tuvalu on its admission as the newest Member of the United Nations family. The dawn of the new millennium is a time for both justified celebration of and sombre reflection on the achievements and shortcomings of the United Nations during the past 55 years. As we review the United Nations track record, I cannot but recall the very first words written in the United Nations Charter: “We the peoples of the United Nations”. These few simple words convey an idea of overwhelming significance — that it is the peoples of our respective nations who represent the core raison d'être of this foremost assembly of humankind. It is the peoples who should be the primary beneficiaries of every resolution that we adopt and every programme that we launch. As we proceed with the first General Assembly session of this millennium, we should ask ourselves the questions, “Have we indeed put the peoples at the centre of all our deliberations and activities? Have we done enough to ensure that ordinary people, both men and women, young and old, benefit from all our initiatives and actions, collective as well as individual?” We are encouraged that the Secretary-General, in his report to the Millennium Assembly, has highlighted the “peoples' concerns” as one of the primary agenda items for the international community to take up. And we are gratified that many countries have highlighted issues of direct interest to peoples at the Millennium Summit, from reversing the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases to combating the scourge of drugs, from rolling back poverty to closing the educational gaps within and between countries. These are all important steps in the right direction. But we need to do more. We need to adopt a fresh mindset that places the interests and welfare of the peoples — the peoples of our own countries and those of other nations — at the centre of our policies in socio-economic development and in maintaining international peace and security. We need to keep in mind that promoting the interests and welfare of peoples requires that we also promote human rights and fundamental freedoms. We need to work collectively to translate commitments made at the Millennium Summit and in other forums into concrete results that reach people directly. Although the recent economic and financial crisis has brought devastating consequences to millions of people across the Asia-Pacific region, it has helped refocus the attention of Governments on the need to protect the most important of any economy's assets, namely, its people. The crisis, by exposing the inadequacies of national social safety nets in protecting the welfare of vulnerable peoples, has raised many difficult questions. In essence, how can one pursue 4 sustainable development and even attempt to attain economic prosperity when the basic needs of people cannot be fulfilled and the potentials of people not fully developed? The idea of putting people at the centre of development efforts is not new. But its application has been far from widespread. As various countries slowly recover from the economic and financial crisis in Asia, the value of pursuing people-centred development has become ever greater. This development paradigm considers development as a means to promote people's welfare and interests rather than as an end in itself. It looks beyond quantitative indicators of growth and focuses more on how to nurture the capabilities of people in society so that they are empowered and are able to make positive contributions to a country's development efforts. And it needs to be forward- looking, taking into account the interests and welfare of future, unborn generations. As part and parcel of the efforts to pursue people- centre development, we must put a premium on tackling those issues, national and transnational, that have a direct impact on people's welfare. I should therefore like to highlight three issues in particular that affect the very essence of the welfare of our peoples: drugs and narcotics-trafficking, HIV/AIDS and poverty alleviation through sustainable development. One of the most unfortunate consequences of globalization is the globalization of the drugs and narcotics problem. Illicit trafficking in and production of narcotics erode an economy's resources, generate a host of social problems and undermine our human potential. These effects are widespread, from the most rural and remote of villages to the most modern of metropolises. It is a global social problem that affects people directly, both users and non-users. While all types of drugs and narcotics are a threat to society, we hope that the international community will give as much attention to the growing threat of methamphethamines as it did to heroin and other drugs in the past. The small size and low cost of producing methamphethamines make them readily accessible to all sectors of society and therefore difficult to suppress. Thailand has spared no effort in tackling the drug and narcotics problem at the national level, and is at the forefront of regional and international cooperation to meet this challenge, with the Association of South- East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP). I am pleased to announce that Thailand and UNDCP will be hosting an International Congress, “In pursuit of a drug free ASEAN 2015: Sharing the vision, leading the change”, in Bangkok from 11 to 13 October this year. We hope to establish an effective coordinating mechanism to tackle the drugs and narcotics problem along all fronts and at all levels, and we hope that the international community will support us in these endeavours. We are gratified that the global problem of HIV/AIDS, which is affecting an increasing number of people in our societies, was given due attention at the Millennium Summit. But international efforts will have to be strengthened and sustained if the international community is to make a dent in a problem that has already affected more than 36 million people worldwide and is reaching epidemic proportions. We are honoured that Thailand has been cited as one of the success stories in tackling the HIV/AIDS problem in the developing world. Nevertheless, the sustainability of successful national efforts requires strong support and cooperation at the regional and multilateral levels and effective partnerships with non-governmental organizations, including the private sector. In this connection, we hope that regional and international cooperation in preventing and alleviating the HIV/AIDS problem will emphasize the exchange of AIDS-related technologies and state-of-the-art techniques for the prevention and alleviation of this disease, as well as the sharing of knowledge on affordable HIV/AIDS-related drugs. We call on the Secretary-General to enhance his efforts in coordinating international action against HIV/AIDS. We also support the proposal for a special session of the General Assembly in 2001 to address this problem. Uplifting peoples from abject poverty and endowing them with appropriate means to lead productive lives are the best guarantees of long-term social stability, and provide a secure foundation for future prosperity and international peace. Poverty reduction is thus at the core of people-centred development and the first step in promoting a more just and equitable global order. The tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD X), which Thailand had the honour of hosting from 12 to 19 February this year, drew particular attention to the risks of marginalization of the poorest countries in the global economy and of the 5 most vulnerable groups within both developing and developed countries. UNCTAD is endeavouring to build a new consensus on how to have greater equity and participation by all in the international economy in this era of globalization. In line with the “Spirit of Bangkok” emerging from UNCTAD X, Thailand, as current President of UNCTAD, greatly appreciates the initiative by Japan during the Group of Eight (G-8) Summit in Okinawa and the G-8 Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Miyazaki in July this year to invite representatives from developing countries as well as regional and international organizations to meet with the G-8 leaders as a means to strengthen North-South cooperation. We are also very appreciative of China's initiative to hold a Sino-African dialogue on development cooperation soon. We are convinced that these initiatives are a step in the right direction. I was astounded to learn that fewer than 2 per cent of the world's population is connected to the Internet, despite all the hype, and that a large portion of mankind have never heard a dial tone. If such discrepancies in information (IT) and/or digital divides are not reversed soon, the developing world will be left far behind the rest of the world. Thailand believes that we should act in concert to maximize the benefits of IT and to ensure that the greatest possible percentage of the world's population is guaranteed IT access. To this end, Thailand fully supports and appreciates the G-8 Okinawa Charter on the Global Information Society to bridge the so-called digital divide. We also welcome the contributions of the private sector, such as those of the Global Digital Divide Initiative of the World Economic Forum and the Global Business Dialogue on Electronic Commerce. We hope that more, similar initiatives will be forthcoming so that we, especially the developing part of the world, can overcome the digital divide. Debt problems are also recognized as a serious obstacle to the pursuit of economic and social development, and all countries should be assisted in managing their debt obligations, including through a debt standstill. Thailand therefore also supports the convening of an international intergovernmental event on financing for development next year at the highest possible level and hopes that feasible and effective measures can be agreed upon to generate greater international financial assistance to support sustainable development and to address poverty. In this connection, we see great value in securing the active participation of the international financial and trade institutions and the private sector, as well as all the NGOs concerned. The most effective way to ensure poverty reduction and promote sustainable development is to empower peoples with the capacity to help themselves. And there is no better way to achieve this than through education and training. Thailand thus attaches great importance to human resources development (HRD). Our efforts are not confined to the national level but extend to a wider, regional scale. We have been at the forefront in promoting HRD in the Mekong subregion, for we sincerely believe that the upgrading of human potential is the best way to fight poverty and ensure closer regional cooperation and sustainable development. International peace and security begin at home. If we are able to pursue an all-encompassing notion of security that places the security of peoples at the apex of our considerations, if we can secure for people freedom from want as well as freedom from fear, then the likelihood of threats to international peace and security will be drastically reduced. Human security and people-centred development are two sides of the same coin: they each promote the welfare of peoples in different ways and reinforce one another at the same time. It is gratifying to note that the concept of human security is gaining ground, even though the debates on what constitutes human security are by no means over. Thailand believes that human security can only take firm root if the basic needs of peoples are fulfilled and peoples are free from social and economic threats to their well-being. How can we begin to talk about human security, let alone international peace and international security, when 1.2 billion people in the world live on less than 1 US dollar a day, about 90 million children are out of school at the primary level and about 1.2 million women and children under 18 are trafficked for prostitution each year? We therefore advocate freeing people from want by effectively and collectively meeting the challenges posed by poverty, illiteracy, infectious disease, famine, natural disaster, social unrest and disintegration. These are in fact the very same goals that we need to achieve in promoting people-centred development. 6 The achievement of human security also requires the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We cannot support human security and effectively pursue people-centred development if we are unable to ensure that people are protected from the worst forms of abuse, suffering and deprivation. We cannot claim to put people at the centre of development efforts if we are unwilling to create political conditions whereby people are able to pursue their lives free from threats to their dignity and personal safety. We cannot expect to develop human potential to the fullest or make people effective contributors to economic development if they cannot have the intellectual freedom to pursue their hopes and dreams for their own future. Thailand therefore calls upon the international community to renew its commitment to promoting and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, in order to ensure that people's interests and welfare are indeed at the centre of our policies and programmes. It is with this conviction that Thailand commits itself to playing an active and responsible role within the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Drawing strength and inspiration from one of the most democratic constitutions anywhere, we will continue to give our full support to the efforts of the United Nations aimed at the protection and promotion of basic human rights, freedoms and dignity. In this connection, Thailand also calls upon the international community to redouble its efforts to assist displaced persons wherever they may be. As host to over 100,000 displaced persons and over a million illegal economic migrants, Thailand attaches great importance to this issue and hopes that it will be resolved comprehensively and as soon as possible. While we seek to promote international peace and security from within by building support for the adoption of the human security paradigm among nations, we should also redouble our efforts internationally. We should engage in prompt and effective collective action at the regional and multilateral levels to create conditions of peace and stability. At the Millennium Summit, many leaders spoke of the need and urgency of Security Council reform. In line with the increased membership of and mounting challenges to this world Organization, Thailand, for one, supports the expansion of both the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Security Council, based on the principle of equitable geographical representation, efficiency and readiness to share responsibilities. Furthermore, Thailand fully supports the reform of United Nations peace operations to ensure their effective conduct and thus the credibility of the United Nations itself. As I mentioned during the Millennium Summit, we strongly support the Brahimi report on United Nations peace operations, for we believe that its recommendations are right on target and constitute achievable and practical steps towards the strengthening of United Nations peace operations worldwide. I should also add that peace operations should be prompt and non-selective as well as being comprehensive in nature. Thailand is therefore honoured to play an important part in United Nations peacekeeping efforts under the United Nations International Force, East Timor (INTERFET) and now under the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET), through the contribution of over 1,500 Thai peacekeepers and the role of Lieutenant-General Boonsrang Niumpradit, Force Commander of UNTAET. At the same time, Thailand has always been conscious of the value of regional cooperation in fostering peace and stability and strongly supports regional efforts aimed at confidence-building and promoting preventive diplomacy. In this connection, we are proud of the seventh meeting of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) recently concluded in Bangkok in July, which saw the admission of the People's Democratic Republic of Korea (DPRK) into our forum. We warmly welcome the Democratic Republic of Korea's participation in the ARF, the only regional forum that brings together all the key countries in the Asia-Pacific region. We are confident that this will strengthen the momentum for regional peace and security in the Asia and Pacific region. It is our fervent hope that at this first General Assembly of the twenty-first century, 55 years after the United Nations held its first meeting, we, the Government representatives of Member States, can move forward in fulfilling our promise made in the United Nations Charter to serve the interests of “We the peoples of the United Nations”. More than ever before, we need to remind ourselves that it is the peoples of our nations who are at the core of all our efforts, whether these be to pursue social and economic 7 development, maintain international peace and security or promote human rights and fundamental freedoms. For if we do not fulfil our task in advancing the cause of protecting the welfare of our peoples, who will? If we cannot adequately promote and protect the interests of the peoples of the United Nations, then it is time to consider other ways in which the peoples of the United Nations — indeed, our own peoples — can interact directly with the United Nations. Now is the time. Let us rededicate ourselves to the task that we set out to accomplish 55 years ago. Let us strive to become what we were always meant to be — a truly representative body of “We the Peoples of the United Nations”, acting in defence of their welfare and the advancement of their interests above all else. Let us resolve and pledge to each other that we shall be even more united, better prepared and more resilient to meet the challenges of the new millennium together.   I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the President on his assumption of the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I have the honour to speak on behalf of the members of the Pacific Island Forum group of countries at the United Nations, comprising Australia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Zealand, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, the Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and my own country, Micronesia. It is with pride that I congratulate and extend a warm welcome to our Pacific Island neighbour Tuvalu into the United Nations family. The members of our group may vary greatly in land and ocean areas, population, resource endowment, economic development, social structures, languages and cultures, but we share a common goal for the Pacific, based on security and stability, as well as prosperity and economic opportunities for its peoples, and the sustainability of resources. Within the same context the Pacific Islands Forum countries represented in New York reaffirm their commitment to play a supportive role in the United Nations decolonization programmes in respect of the remaining non-self-governing territories in the Pacific. The Pacific Ocean occupies a central place in the lives of the people of the Pacific Islands. Preservation of this resource — which contains the world's highest marine diversity — is critical to our future economic development. The vast oceanic area under the control of our members is rich in fishing potential but requires careful management and monitoring to address illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and other environmental threats. A major achievement for us and our distant-water fishing partners is the convention recently adopted by the Multilateral High-Level Conference on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific, which will protect the world's last great tuna fishery. The first meeting of the United Nations Open- ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and Law of the Sea, under the co-chairmanship of the Ambassador of Samoa, promises to serve as a vital part of the preparatory process for the General Assembly's consideration of ocean issues. The ocean priorities identified by the Pacific Island Forum include ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the United Nations agreement on fish stocks; marine scientific research and technical assistance; and the delimitation of maritime zones, including continental shelves. The world's security environment has become more fluid and uncertain with new and emerging threats. Events this year show that a reputation for stability and peace are by no means guaranteed in the Pacific. In light of the political crisis in Fiji and the social unrest in the Solomon Islands, Foreign Ministers of the Forum met in Samoa in August. They recognized the need for regional action to be taken on the basis of all members being part of the Pacific Islands extended family. In doing so the Forum must demonstrate that it is prepared constructively to address difficult and sensitive issues, including the underlying causes of tensions and conflicts, such as ethnicity, socio- economic disparities, lack of good governance, land disputes and erosion of cultural values. Accordingly, they decided to recommend to the Pacific Island Forum meeting in Tarawa, Kiribati, that leaders commit themselves and their countries to a number of fundamental principles and courses of actions, including the following: belief in liberty of the individual under the law, equal rights for all citizens regardless of gender, race, colour, creed, political belief and in the individual's inalienable right to participate by means of a free and democratic political process in framing the society in which he or she lives; upholding democratic processes and institutions which reflect national and local circumstances, including the peaceful transfer of power, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, just and honest government and recognizing the importance and urgency of equitable economic, social and cultural development to satisfy the basic needs and aspirations of the people of the Forum. The ministers established a working group to develop these principles, and options for action in cases where the principles have been violated, for consideration by Forum leaders when they meet in Kiribati. In addition to increasing incidents of civil unrest, the region is facing new threats from international, financial and cyber crime and people-smuggling, as 27 well as the challenge of preventing and controlling communicable diseases and the HIV/AIDS pandemic. The threat associated with uncontrolled access to even a small number of weapons was brought into stark relief in the region recently, adding weight to the Forum leaders' decision in 1997 to put in place regional cooperation and a legal framework to control the spread of weapons in the region. This approach is in step with international efforts to combat the illicit trade in small arms, particularly in the lead-up to the 2001 United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. Work on a legal framework has progressed to a point where we expect draft legislation to be circulated among Forum island countries before the end of this year. We in the Pacific retain a close relationship, in both economic and cultural terms, with our natural environment. We therefore maintain a keen interest in the development of the Environmental Vulnerability Index. We thank the several Governments that have kindly committed substantial funds for the completion of the third phase of the studies being conducted by the South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission (SOPAC), and encourage its adoption by the United Nations so that the environmental and natural risks that our members face are recognized when consideration is given to eligibility for concessional aid, trade treatment and least-developed-country status. Agenda 21 and the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States remain the basic guideline for protecting the environment and achieving sustainable development. Steady progress is required in the preparations for the 10-year review of the United Nations Conference on the Environment and Development, to take place in 2002. We give high priority to international efforts to have the Kyoto Protocol come into force at the earliest possible date. We are thus committed to achieving a successful outcome to the sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in November. We welcome the formulation of specific tools, such as the Clean Development Mechanism, which promise to be useful in enabling island countries to do our part to combat climate change and to adapt to its consequences within the parameters of our own national circumstances. Strengthened efforts are being made in the region to build capacity to understand and respond to climate change, including through observational networks. The small island nations of the Pacific face unique constraints on development. Most have small subsistence-based economies with a narrow export base. Forum economic ministers meeting in July reconfirmed their commitment to the process of economic reform, based on the principle of good governance, with the aim of providing a sound economic basis upon which social development can take place. The World Trade Organization (WTO) remains the world's most significant international opportunity for the negotiation of trade and commercial issues. The Pacific Island Forum has agreed to establish a Forum delegation in Geneva and a working group of Forum trade officials to improve cooperation in the WTO and to actively engage in the policy debate about the best way to enhance the role of the WTO in contributing to development. We recognize the importance of finding ways to ensure that trade reform delivers outcomes which will contribute not only to economic growth, but also to the advancement of development and social equity objectives and improved environmental outcomes. The global information economy promises great opportunities, particularly for those in isolated areas such as the Pacific, but it also demands new skills and technology. Efficient and effective communications services, including a dedicated modern network system like the Small Island Developing States Network (SIDSNET), are of critical importance in achieving economic and social development and overcoming the constraints resulting from the relatively high cost structures of telecommunication networks for Forum island countries. A Forum vision for the Pacific information economy seeks to develop an appropriate mechanism for the cooperation of regional regulators and relevant organizations. Education and training are of fundamental importance to enhancing the adaptability of Pacific islanders to economic reform in a rapidly changing world and region. By supporting education, the United Nations can help overcome one of the major obstacles to economic growth and poverty reduction. The United Nations system continues to play a vital role in protecting the interests of small island States, such as most of the members of the Pacific 28 Island Forum. It is essential that the United Nations remain strong by adapting to meet new challenges such as globalization. At the same time, the central role of the General Assembly, with its universal membership, should be strengthened. The Security Council should be made more representative, transparent and democratic so as to be able to respond to the requirements of a fundamentally different international setting. It needs to be reformed comprehensively to meet contemporary demands and the conditions of the world today. We welcome the Brahimi report (A/55/305) and look forward to the strengthening of the ability of the United Nations to carry out its key peacekeeping role. To fulfil its collective security responsibilities, the United Nations must be afforded strong and sustained political support, together with financial and institutional resources. An integral element is a more equitable scale for determining peacekeeping funding. The Pacific Island Forum group remains committed to ensuring an effective United Nations. Programme of work   I begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your well deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its first session of the millennium. Your proven skill and vast experience guarantee that you will ably guide the work of this session. I wish also to express our great friendship for and gratitude to Finland, the country you so honourably represent, whose close friendship with Nicaragua has earned our sincere affection. Let me also thank your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the dedicated way in which he guided our work at the fifty-fourth session. I wish next to express very special thanks for the contribution made by the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, who has prepared a valuable report (A/54/2000) on the role of the Organization in the twenty-first century; the report was central in stimulating the discussions conducted by our heads of State or Government at the Millennium Summit — an unprecedented event that laid the groundwork for giving fresh momentum to the United Nations. The process of renewing the Organization requires the strengthening of its organs and institutions so as to enhance the effectiveness of its endeavours in spheres such as the maintenance of international peace 24 and security, poverty eradication, the strengthening of health and education programmes and the struggle against the destruction of the environment. Without a doubt, that depends on us, the States Members of the United Nations; we must guarantee the Organization the resources and other means it needs to fulfil its mandate and fully to play its role as a centre for exchange of views and for coordinating the efforts of the world's peoples. In that connection, let me reaffirm the need to reform the Security Council, an organ that is of vital importance to peace and security. Such reform should include democratic, equitable geographical representation and a better balance between developed and developing countries so that the Council will be able to respond fully and effectively to the present needs of our peoples and to future challenges facing them in the new millennium. Here, we see the veto as another element of this sensitive issue that should be addressed seriously with a view to limiting its application to very specific situations and to possibly eliminating it. For those reasons, we believe it to be of paramount importance to reach consensus on all the issues that are inherent in the very structure of the new international order. We wish also to stress the importance of speedily beginning a process of international discussions aimed at attaining greater consensus and effectiveness in resolving humanitarian emergencies. In another vein, we believe that we must reaffirm our commitment to maintain and strengthen the universal mission of the United Nations to ensure that all the world's peoples without exception enjoy fair representation. This brings me to reaffirm before the Assembly how important it is to give consideration to the longing of one people to participate with legitimate representation as a full Member of the Organization: I refer here to the Republic of China. Another important matter that the Organization should continue in the new century to address with greater determination is the war against drug trafficking, organized crime and terrorism. Indeed, the flow of drugs is rapidly increasing in our countries, and in but a few years has become one of the most serious of problems, one that directly affects our economic, political and social life. To address that critical situation, we must give priority to strengthening the national institutions that are mandated to combat this scourge, to enacting and updating national legislation, and to increasing international cooperation and coordination in this sphere. Here, let me observe that Nicaragua has strict laws to punish drug traffickers, and has established a national drug-control plan under which institutions work together in a coordinated manner to attain the stated objectives. We are also working constantly towards greater international cooperation. At the outset of the new millennium, we see an urgent need to deepen and accelerate progress on ways and means to achieve world disarmament, especially with respect to weapons whose great destructive powers actually threaten life on our planet. We therefore welcomed the outcome of the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which reaffirmed the conviction that full and effective implementation of the Treaty and of the non-proliferation regime in all its aspects plays a vital role in the promotion of international peace and security. Similarly, we focus special attention on the problem of conventional weapons and on the existence of anti-personnel landmines, which also pose a threat to human safety and security. We therefore believe it is a priority to meet the obligations taken on by each State under international and regional conventions on these subjects. In Nicaragua, one of the gravest consequences of the armed conflict that was, fortunately, overcome in the 1990s is undoubtedly the presence of a vast number of anti-personnel landmines throughout our territory, a situation that even today claims numerous innocent victims. Accordingly, my country, with the support of the international community, is making an enormous effort to resolve the problem permanently. Along with mine-clearance activities, we have begun the process of destroying mine stockpiles, and have thus far destroyed more than 40,000 mines, in strict compliance with the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. Nicaragua reaffirms its determination to spare no effort in the preparations for the third meeting of States parties to the Ottawa Convention, to be held in Nicaragua in September 2001. We also believe it to be of the utmost importance to reaffirm our commitment to tolerance and respect for diversity. In that connection, we support the preparatory work for the World Conference against 25 Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance. It is essential for the future of the Organization and for that of our peoples that we make a greater effort always to comply with the purposes that half a century ago were laid down in the San Francisco Charter, especially with respect to the maintenance of international peace and security. This can happen only with a firm commitment to non-violence and to the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes through the procedures established by international law. That is the key element in preventing future conflicts with grave and enduring consequences for mankind. For us, it is a source of satisfaction that one of the last vestiges of the cold war is on the way to a peaceful resolution. Here I refer to the dialogue between the two Koreas, which has been launched at the highest level and which will without doubt mark the beginning of promising prospects for the Korean peninsula. Nicaragua also shares the concern of the international community at the persistence of certain conflicts, particularly on the African continent; these have caused devastating damage to property and the loss of countless lives in countries such as Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Burundi and the Sudan. It is therefore gratifying that in some of those countries steps have been taken to find a solution to their conflicts. These include the 18 June signing of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement by Ethiopia and Eritrea, and the implementation of the Djibouti peace initiative for Sierra Leone. We also hail Israel's withdrawal from Lebanon in accordance with Security Council resolutions, and the stepped-up efforts, since the Camp David summit organized by President Clinton, to find a peaceful settlement between Israel and Palestine. In the same vein, my country is convinced of the importance of the principle of the self-determination of peoples; we note the urgent need to hold the pending referendum in Western Sahara as soon as possible. To that end, all obstacles to that process must be overcome. Similarly, my country, convinced of the importance of the principle of the self-determination of peoples, makes an appeal regarding the pressing need to hold, as soon as possible, the referendum pending on Western Sahara. To that end, all obstacles to the process must be overcome. Much progress has been made in this century. Some of the most important achievements have been in the field of the technology revolution. Consequently today we have the great responsibility and duty to begin this new millennium by pooling our efforts to achieve adequate levels of technology transfer to developing countries in order to prevent globalization from becoming a negative phenomenon that exacerbates the marginalization of the poorest countries. The advantages and the disadvantages entailed by globalization require the developing countries to work together in order to increase their opportunities to successfully confront this phenomenon. An example of this is the decision of the Presidents of Guatemala, Nicaragua and El Salvador to sign a tri-national agreement aimed at giving fresh impetus to the Central American integration process by providing an appropriate political framework for the establishment of a regional customs union, a process launched by El Salvador and Guatemala and which Nicaragua and Honduras have recently joined. Apart from integration initiatives, continued efforts to achieve solidarity through cooperation for development are vitally important. Nonetheless, we feel it must be emphasized that cooperation activities must be accompanied by appropriate management that offers favourable conditions for small economies to have access to large international markets, obtaining fair prices for their exports of raw materials and manufactured goods. In this respect, we warmly welcome the decision to convene the high-level intergovernmental event on financing for development in 2001. That event is of paramount importance to the efforts being made to achieve the objectives established by the Millennium Summit. The strengthening of the multilateral trade system is also of great importance, which includes, among other things, the prompt and urgent convening of a round of trade negotiations within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in which problems are addressed in a comprehensive and integral manner, to lead to an effective reduction of tariff and non-tariff barriers. Free trade and the rules governing it should be implemented within the WTO framework so that they benefit all, particularly the poor countries. It is also essential that the most heavily indebted poor countries be able to aspire to break the vicious 26 circle of poverty. In this regard, as stated by Mr. Arnoldo Alemán Lacayo, President of Nicaragua, during the Millennium Summit, “the unbearable weight of an immense external debt [represents] an insurmountable barrier to overcoming poverty and unemployment. In this respect, we are pleased to note the interest recently shown by the developed countries and multilateral financial institutions in seeking alternatives that would substantially relieve the situation of the heavily indebted poor countries. We hope that this interest will soon be reflected in specific and meaningful actions, so that countries such as Nicaragua can break this vicious circle of poverty and look towards a future with greater opportunities and expectations for sustainability and progress.” (A/55/PV.3) Another important challenge to which we must devote great effort is the conservation of natural resources and the global environment; this is vitally important for the future of humanity, as well as for the prevention of and response to natural disasters. Nicaragua has been cruelly punished by natural phenomena; the effects of hurricane Mitch, which lashed the Central American region in 1998, and of strong telluric movement shook the eastern part of our country, causing loss of human life and considerable material damage are still fresh. Given that reality, Nicaragua, with the valuable assistance of the United Nations Development Programme, became the third Latin American country to adopt a modern law to take the necessary measures to establish an integrated system for disaster prevention and response. Moreover, despite its limited resources, Nicaragua has channelled great energy into the search for a model of sustainable development and of conservation of its natural resources. In that regard, the Government of Nicaragua has established the National Council on Sustainable Development, a pluralistic body in which all the main sectors of civil society participate, in order to promote actively, in accordance with Agenda 21, the implementation of this model of sustainable development. Our leaders have had the historic opportunity to undertake decisive commitments for the future of humanity. Nicaragua fully shares and reaffirms its commitment to the basic values contained in the Millennium Declaration: freedom and equality, so that we may all live decently, without poverty or violence, but rather in good health and with education; equity and solidarity, since all peoples of the world have the duty to share and to exchange knowledge and experience that tomorrow will be decisive for human development; tolerance and non-violence, since we can forge ahead only if people respect each other and if States are always prepared to understand each other and resolve their differences through peaceful means; and respect for nature, in order to be able to leave to our children a future in which they will feel proud and optimistic, in which they will walk with their heads high, confident that they are on the right path. Today is the time to sow, so that tomorrow we will be able to harvest. Today is when we must be aware that we have a shared responsibility, collective and individual, to strengthen the United Nations in order to be able to build a more just, secure and equitable international system for all.  Allow me first of all to congratulate Mr. Holkeri on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session and to commend him for the able leadership he has shown since the beginning of our session. With his wisdom and vast experience, there is no doubt that he will guide our deliberations to a successful conclusion. In the same vein, I would also like to commend Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the outgoing President, for the professional and efficient manner in which he conducted the affairs of this Assembly. Last but by no means least, I pay tribute to the Secretary-General for the dynamic and visionary manner in which he has been carrying out his mandate. I would also like to seize this opportunity to congratulate him for his forward-looking millennium report, entitled, “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. May I also join previous speakers in congratulating Tuvalu on its admission as the newest Member of the United Nations. The Millennium Summit that has just ended was a historic event that brought together world leaders of the highest political echelon who rededicated themselves to the principles of the United Nations. As the Summit's political declaration and outcome document indicate, our leaders considered the various challenges faced by the United Nations, exchanged views and explored ideas on the role that the Organization is expected to play in the twenty-first century. I am confident that, through concerted efforts, we, the servants of the people, will energize our United Nations to enable it to tackle the challenges of this century. Some of the important issues that were raised during the recently concluded Summit, such as conflict resolution, poverty eradication, accessibility to health care and debt relief, to mention only a few, have been echoed by many speakers since the general debate began. An issue that is of particular concern to the President of the Republic of the Gambia and to my delegation is that of conflict situations, particularly those in Africa. I am referring to situations such as those that currently prevail in Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia and Eritrea, Sierra Leone, the Comoros, Somalia, Guinea and Liberia. In Angola, we are concerned about the continuing civil strife and its negative impact on the well-being of the brotherly people of that country. It is an open secret that the intransigence of UNITA is largely responsible for the present state of affairs. We therefore commend the Security Council sanctions Committee on Angola, especially the work done by Ambassador Fowler and his Panel of Experts, to show the way forward on how to reduce UNITA's capacity to wage war. We hope that 29 the recommendations contained in the Panel's report will be fully and scrupulously implemented, and that this will force UNITA to return to the negotiating table. We are equally alarmed at the volatile situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its repercussions throughout the Great Lakes region. My delegation therefore strongly urges the belligerents, signatories of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, to adhere to the Agreement's terms and conditions, with a view to accelerating the peace process. Regarding Ethiopia and Eritrea, we are heartened by the current adherence to the June 2000 ceasefire and strongly urge the two brotherly countries to accelerate negotiations on a comprehensive peace agreement that would hopefully lead to a definitive conclusion of the regrettable two-year-long border conflict. In this connection, my delegation strongly supports the speedy deployment of a peacekeeping mission to the disputed area. Somalia also continues to attract our attention. We therefore commend President Ismail Omar Guelleh for his relentless endeavour to broker the Djibouti process that culminated in the recent election of President Abdikassim Salad Hassan. We wish President Salad Hassan all the best in his onerous task of forming a representative Government, a Government of national unity, and in the uphill task of rebuilding his war-torn country. We also appeal to all the Somali factions to put their differences aside, to put their country first and to join in the concerted effort to achieve the national unity that has eluded Somalia since 1991. We all welcome Somalia into the international community once more, as it has now started occupying its seats in international meetings. Nearer to home, the volatile situations in the brotherly countries of Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia continue to be of great concern to us. My delegation, however, takes heart in the Security Council's decision, by its resolution 1317 (2000), to extend the mandate of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone. This, together with the efforts being deployed by the Economic Community of West African States, will definitely bring about positive results very soon. At this point, we also want to commend the Government of the United Kingdom for stepping in with military assistance to bolster the United Nations troops there, showing courage and leadership when it was most needed. Other members of the Security Council should emulate that example and show leadership by example. My delegation welcomes the establishment of the special court for Sierra Leone to try war crimes and other atrocities. Our only disappointment is that, unlike the case of other tribunals, funding is based on voluntary contributions. How, then, do we expect the Sierra Leone special court to function effectively and efficiently? Are we serious about the need to eradicate the culture of impunity? We also appreciate the work being done by the Security Council to ban the trade in conflict diamonds. At the national, regional and subregional levels, the Secretary-General's 1998 report (A/52/871) on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa remains a useful guide in our collective efforts to resolve conflicts around the continent and at the same time address the problem of development. In addition to that, the Brahimi report on United Nations peace and security activities is indeed very timely, but we will be doing justice to the report only if we implement the recommendations contained in it and do so as soon as possible. Apart from the conflicts in Africa, we are also closely monitoring conflict situations in other parts of the world, such as the Middle East, the Korean peninsula and the Taiwan Strait. In the Middle East, my delegation strongly supports the peace process and the indefatigable efforts of President Bill Clinton to help the parties concerned to reach an agreement satisfactory to all sides. We must always bear in mind, however, that the relevant Security Council resolutions, especially resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), remain the most credible basis for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. If we unanimously agree that might is not right in one part of the world, we should apply the same principle in any other part of the world. I will refer to a number of situations. In regard to the situation between Kuwait and Iraq, we in the Gambia have always maintained that the international community should, as a matter of urgency, find ways of alleviating the suffering of the Iraqi people. But, at the same time, the Iraqi leadership must be accountable for the Kuwaiti prisoners of war and missing persons. The families of the prisoners of 30 war and missing persons have also been suffering for too long. Furthermore, we cannot treat lightly the issue of the Kuwaiti national archives, still in Iraqi hands. They must be returned, as must all other property removed illegally from Kuwait at the time of the invasion. Let us be fair to the people of Kuwait. They look to the international community for the justice that they so rightly deserve. Let justice prevail everywhere. The sanctions imposed on Libya have been suspended, but what is stopping the Security Council from lifting them altogether? Libya has complied with all the conditions laid down by the Security Council. We therefore call on the Council to keep its part of the bargain. Still on the subject of Libya, the Government of the Gambia would like to congratulate President Muammar Al-Qadhafi for the preponderant role that he played to defuse the hostage crisis in the Philippines, in the spirit of goodwill and respect for human rights. We also hope that the differences between the United States of America and the Republic of the Sudan over the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical plant will soon have a peaceful solution in the interests of all. We also believe that the people of the Comoros should be listening, too, so that, through the efforts they are making to resolve locally the division existing in their country they will reach a definitive solution, in the interests of the continent of Africa as well as of the international community as a whole, that will make us all proud. Let me come back to the issue of sanctions, but this time I want to talk about Cuba. The unjust sanctions imposed on Cuba for over 30 years should be lifted, as called for by many people of good will around the world, including some lawmakers here in the United States who believe that such sanctions are of another age and are not conducive to good- neighbourliness and international cooperation. It is our fervent hope that common sense will soon prevail so that at long last we will see the normalization of relations between the United States and Cuba, two neighbours, two great countries that have a lot to offer to their peoples and to the rest of the world. It is in this spirit that my delegation hails the thaw in relations between North and South Korea signalled by the June 2000 Summit in Pyongyang between Presidents Kim Jong Il and Kim Dae-jung. We encourage the two brotherly countries to continue on the path of reconciliation, which we hope will lead to the eventual reunification of the two Koreas. Meanwhile, we are here yet again to reason with the Assembly about the pressing need to reconsider its position with regard to the case of the Republic of China on Taiwan. At this moment, when we the United Nations are at a crossroads, when history is in the making, when we are talking about inclusiveness, universality, globalization, democratization — and the list goes on — it defies logic that a country of 23 million people, with all that they have to offer to the rest of mankind, is continuously barred from participating in the work and activities of the United Nations. The Republic of China has a national flag, national ceremonies and systems that are recognized all over the world. It is also one of the most advanced in the field of technology and electronics, agriculture and medicine. Here is a country relatively small in size, but in terms of social, economic, financial, cultural, technological and scientific achievements, the Republic of China on Taiwan is indeed a force to be reckoned with, a formidable powerhouse. This country has always espoused everything that our Organization stands for: its purposes and principles, its aims and objectives, its shared values and dreams. The Republic of China is not discouraged. We must in the spirit of democracy and justice allow it to hoist its flag as an independent nation in this edifice of the United Nations. It is my delegation's firm belief that this historic occasion of the Millennium Summit is the time to embrace opportunities, make progress on issues that divide us, move forward and look to the future with confidence, rather than living in the past, burying our heads in the sand or turning the other way. If we look closely at the documents prepared for the Millennium Summit — whether the one introduced by the Secretary-General or the working draft prepared by the General Assembly President — it will be seen that on almost all the issues raised in these important documents the Republic of China has much to offer. Let us take human rights, democracy and good governance. It will be recalled that on 18 March this year, the Republic of China held its second presidential election. Nearly 12.8 million people, approximately 83 per cent of all eligible voters in Taiwan, participated in the election, vigorously contested by candidates from 31 all political parties. The opposition won the election, which resulted in an unprecedented transition of power from one political party to another, in an orderly and peaceful process. After that result the country still seeks to be a part of this house. In the area of development and poverty eradication, we have witnessed on a number of occasions how the Republic of China has, through its International Economic Cooperation and Development Fund, been collaborating with such agencies as the Asian Development Bank, the Central American Bank for Economic Integration and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to support development projects around the world. As for the crucial sector of information and communications technology and the revolution in this field, it is an open secret that the Republic of China is in the vanguard. We will be talking a great deal about the growing digital divide. We have to bridge this divide, and it goes without saying that one of the major pillars of this bridge is the Republic of China. How, then, can this country be excluded from the United Nations family? Furthermore, in this era of globalization and liberalization, it is impossible to understand how a leading trading nation like the Republic of China could be excluded from playing its rightful role in the comity of nations. The Republic of China is one of the most successful examples of economic development in the twentieth century and is now the world's nineteenth largest economy in terms of gross domestic product and the fourteenth most important trading nation. And, yes, it possesses the third largest amount of foreign reserves in the world. What is even more praiseworthy is that the Republic of China has over the years sent more than 10,000 experts to train technicians in countries all over the world, especially in developing countries. In addition, it has also been providing disaster relief around the world amounting to billions of dollars. This country continues to respond promptly and positively to United Nations appeals for emergency relief and rehabilitation for countries suffering from natural disasters and wars. It will also be useful and helpful to talk about cross-strait relations just to show that the door to dialogue is not completely shut between the Republic of China and the People's Republic of China. In fact since 1987 more than 12 million visits have been arranged and 100 million letters and phone calls exchanged. Last year alone some 2 million visits were exchanged. We note with a sense of great satisfaction that cross-strait trade totalled $27 billion. These figures speak volumes. This is why we believe that we should not only take note of, but also support, the conciliatory gestures of the Republic of China towards the People's Republic of China, especially the request for a summit to pursue cross-strait reconciliation efforts without specifying any preconditions, format or location. The newly elected President of the Republic of China even went further, by expressing the hope that the leaders of the Republic of China and the People's Republic of China would respect the free choice of the people on both sides and work together to resolve the question of a future one China. While working to achieve that goal, we, the United Nations, should help the process by considering how both sides of the Taiwan Strait can participate at the same time in the United Nations. We are confident that, as was the case with the former East Germany and the former West Germany, parallel representation of divided nations in the United Nations — in addition to contributing to regional peace and security — can lead to their peaceful unification. Other than conflict situations in the world, poverty eradication is a matter that is close to our heart. Indeed, as we begin the twenty-first century, poverty remains our number one challenge to sustainable human development. In this connection, I would like to mention that about three weeks ago the Gambia launched the 1998 National Household Poverty Survey and the 1999-2000 Participatory Assessment National Summary reports. The poverty survey revealed that households engaged in farming and the informal sectors record the highest poverty incidence, at 80 per cent and 85 per cent respectively. Some of the causes identified were low crop yields, inaccessibility to credit, low rainfall, poor soil fertility, unemployment, insufficient food, lack of income for basic needs, poor health and lack of education. We intend to address these causes within the framework of The Gambia's Vision 2020, our national blueprint for socio-economic development. The President of the Republic of The Gambia has thus reinforced the use of tractors and mechanized ploughing and modern agriculture techniques in order to increase the production of rice, groundnuts and other agricultural commodities, in an effort to achieve self-sufficiency. 32 Efforts to eradicate poverty should also include a health component. Indeed, as the World Bank rightly puts it, a major acceleration of growth is unlikely without a dramatic improvement in human capital, particularly public health. This is why my delegation finds the concept of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization very attractive indeed, especially in its strategic objectives. Let me at this juncture commend the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for its generous contribution towards the delivery of vaccines in the poorest countries and for supporting research with a view to developing vaccines. Referring specifically to research in the area of malaria, I am proud to state that the Medical Research Council in the Gambia has always enjoyed the support and encouragement of my Government. The Medical Research Council has over the years accumulated a lot of experience and expertise. I am sure that the Global Alliance can make use of such experience and expertise in carrying out its own mandate. For us in West Africa, the eradication of malaria is among our highest priorities. We, particularly the Gambia, Senegal, Guinea-Bissau and the Republic of Guinea, have been meeting at the subregional level to give effect to the World Health Organization's Roll Back Malaria strategy and to develop other preventive and curative remedies for implementation at the national level. The recent breakthrough in human science through the successful decoding of the human genome, and the bright prospects for genome science, will allow for the development of vaccines and medicines as remedies for deadly diseases all over the world. What is even more amazing about that major scientific breakthrough is its reaffirmation of our common humanity. The language of the book of life is in fact the same for all peoples, irrespective of race, religion or region. In efforts to make the world a better place for humankind, we also need to adopt a fresher approach regarding economic development issues, such as the debt burden and trade access, official development assistance and financing for development, to mention only a few. As one of the least developed countries, the Gambia looks forward to the forthcoming Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, to be held in March 2001. My delegation fully supports the Secretary-General's proposal to urge industrialized countries to consider granting duty-free and quota-free access for essentially all exports from least developed countries. I must add that in addressing the specific problems of least developed countries, extra efforts should be made to tackle the excruciating debt burden across the board, rather than limiting the approach to a select number of countries as provided for under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative. We note, sadly, that the international community's effort to resolve Africa's external debt problems continues to fall short of the desired results. The adoption of the HIPC initiative by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, while complementing global efforts, also falls short of the expected target: complete cancellation of the debt stock of all developing countries is what should happen. Unless that is done, the debt burden will continue to have a negative impact on the availability of adequate resources to finance Africa's economic recovery and social development. The task of peace-building and peacemaking at the national and international levels and the other tasks within the United Nations mandate are facilitated because we are fortunate to have an organization such as the United Nations to provide the framework for such efforts. As the Secretary-General aptly puts it in his “We the peoples” report, the United Nations is “the only body of its kind with universal membership and comprehensive scope, and encompassing so many areas of human endeavour. These features make it a uniquely useful forum — for sharing information, conducting negotiations, elaborating norms and voicing expectations, coordinating the behaviour of States and other actors, and pursuing common plans of action.” (A/54/2000, para. 8) Regrettably, the Organization has not always been in a position to carry out its peacekeeping and other important roles effectively. This is due mainly to a dearth of financial resources. Therefore, if it is to assume the important role the founding fathers assigned it in the first place, that of meeting the needs of the world's peoples, we the Member States have to provide it with the necessary financial and other resources. The United Nations is expected to play an even greater role in the twenty-first century. 33 Quite apart from providing the Organization with the necessary resources, there will be a need to carry out some reforms, especially of the Security Council. We must begin by making its membership more reflective of present-day realities. Any reform of the Security Council must first and foremost address the serious anomaly which excludes Africa from the present permanent membership category. This must be corrected; Africa must be given a minimum of two permanent seats if and when the Council is ever reformed. In an organization like ours, the right of veto is a rebellion against democracy. For the five permanent members of the Security Council to understand the present situation as being unfair will be a mark of their sense of equity and justice. We will then know that they too want a Council based on mutual respect and fraternal cooperation in the service of humanity at large. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize once again that the United Nations is the best legacy that the founding fathers could have left for the peoples of the world. It has served us reasonably well for the past 55 years, nations big and small, rich and poor. It can serve us even better in the twenty-first century provided that we have the political will to strengthen the Organization so that it can carry on with the difficult but not impossible task of making this world a better place for all nations. That is the hope of my country. We are certain that all together we will be able to achieve it. We should remain optimistic, because we know that, as Professor Pierre-Henri Simon was wont to say in his lectures at the Sorbonne, life begins on the other side of despair. The United Nations was created in the midst of despair as a haven of hope, peace, progress and justice for all. It should also be, for all of us, in justice and in truth, an asylum from the cruelty and pain of the outside world.  On behalf of the Government and people of Lesotho, I extend our most sincere congratulations to the President on his election to preside over the fifty-fifth session, and wish him every success in the discharge of his duties. We are confident that his personal, diplomatic and leadership qualities will guide us through the session, and assure him of our support and cooperation at all times. Let me also pay a well deserved tribute, and express our thanks and gratitude, to his predecessor, our colleague, Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia. We thank him in particular for his statesmanship, sterling guidance and effective organization during the difficult times of the fifty-fourth session. We also remain deeply indebted to Secretary- General Kofi Annan for his continued dynamic leadership and commitment to our Organization, and for his relentless efforts in achieving the Organization's goals. The admission of a new Member to our Organization is always a moment of joy, and that of Tuvalu is no exception. 19 This, the first session of the General Assembly in the new millennium, offers an opportunity for us to reflect on the challenges and threats we face as we enter the new century, a century that has ushered in a revolution that future generations will likely characterize as one that had the greatest impact on human civilization since the advent of the telegraph, radio and television. The world is indeed witnessing a revolution in the information systems and their integration into the lives of men, women and children, leading to the term “information age “. The information age of the twenty-first century is taking root as it impacts on the lives of all sectors of society at both the national and international levels. There can be no doubt that for some information technology and globalization are beginning to turn theoretical possibilities into fact, as the use of computers and computer-dependent systems have resulted in improvements in basic health conditions and increases in life expectancy, efficiency and productivity, thus offering tremendous economic potential and prosperity. Unfortunately, the majority of others who have been left out of that prosperity continue to live in conditions of extreme poverty, remain embroiled in unending conflicts and are ravaged by the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other diseases. The challenge for the United Nations of the twenty-first century is to eliminate those disparities by bringing poor countries into the digital age, thus making them extract value from globalization instead of watching globalization extract value from them. Education remains the key for the attainment of these objectives. In fact, our message from Lesotho here is: education, education, education. A disturbing phenomenon for the international community, and in particular for Africa, is that while the rest of the world is experiencing an increased flow of financial resources Africa's development prospects continue to be hampered by unsustainable debt servicing obligations. Just as we have placed poverty eradication at the centre of economic and social development, it is equally necessary to accord similar importance to the debt problems of developing countries. In our view, that would be a vital contribution to the realization of the goal of halving the proportion of people whose income is less than $1 a day by 2015. Lesotho falls into the category of countries that are not eligible for debt relief under the existing framework. In our Millennium Summit Declaration we made pledges to grant more generous development assistance to poor countries that plan to apply their resources to poverty reduction and to deal comprehensively with their debt problems. We need to concretize these pledges by adopting measures to accelerate debt relief such as the cancellation of the official debt of those countries and the expansion of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. This would assist us in ensuring that by 2015 the majority of our people have access to safe drinking water, that all children complete a full course of primary education, and that joblessness is reduced among our youth. It would also help us curb the spread of HIV/AIDS and assist the children orphaned by this scourge. The Government of Lesotho adopted poverty reduction as its highest development priority in its sixth and seventh National Development Plans. We have taken firm measures to reduce poverty. Based on our democratic dispensation and peaceful environment, we have successfully embarked on an aggressive investment promotion campaign for job creation. I am pleased to report that we are experiencing initial success in attracting foreign investment. We believe that South-South cooperation is an important tool for developing and strengthening the economic independence of developing countries. To this end, we in southern Africa have made modest but encouraging progress with respect to South-South cooperation by accelerating the entry into force of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Trade Protocol, which encompasses deeper economic cooperation, cross-border investment and trade, free movement of factors of production, and free movement of goods and services. The Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, to be held in Brussels next year, is both timely and crucial. Since this body recognized, some years ago, the least developed countries as the poorest of the developing countries, there has not yet been any improvement in the weak economic situation of those countries, whose numbers have instead increased from 25 in 1971, to 48 in 1997. Lesotho therefore looks forward to the Conference, which will review the internal constraints to the development of the least developed countries and 20 the adequacy of international support measures in the critical areas of official development assistance, debt relief, market access and trade. The High-level International Intergovernmental Event on Financing for Development, to be held in 2001, will come to naught unless we are resolved to undertake it armed with the requisite political commitment and global solidarity to achieve our development goals nationally, regionally and internationally. The Government of Lesotho remains keenly aware that good environmental management requires concerted efforts from all members of the community. Therefore, we have established partnerships at the international, regional and national levels to address the problems of environmental degradation. We believe that the environment is too important an issue to be left in the hands of one Organization. In this regard, we look forward to the process of the 10-year review of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), at which we will share our experiences with, and learn from, our counterparts in the international community. Regarding the integrated and coordinated implementation of, and follow-up to, the major United Nations conferences and summits, my delegation values the review meetings because they offer us the opportunity to evaluate our performance and to consider the way forward. They also rekindle our political commitment to achieving global developmental goals. We therefore feel that the review process should continue in the twenty-first century, with a stronger emphasis on the evaluation of achievements and constraints. Like globalization of the economy, globalization of human rights cannot be avoided. Today human rights are well established as the legitimate concern of all humanity. If, as the world agreed in Vienna in 1993, “the promotion and protection of all human rights is a legitimate concern of the international community” (A/CONF/157/24,chapter III, section I, para.4), this calls for a more pragmatic approach in identifying pertinent situations requiring the protection of humanity, including in situations where a state has collapsed or disintegrated. Among the promising developments as we begin the century is the growing world consensus on the need to stop impunity by punishing those responsible for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, as evidenced by the number of signatories and ratifications to the Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC). This momentum has rekindled our hope for peace and for an end to the persistence of human rights violations. Lesotho's ratification of the ICC Statute is a further clear indication of its commitment to the protection of human rights and to bringing to justice all those who commit gross violations of these rights. As we celebrate the fifth anniversary of the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women, we must be reminded that the goal of gender equality is far from being achieved. Despite pessimistic forecasts, and despite different evaluations of the achievements of the special session on women, the Beijing + 5 conference's adoption of a final document proposing a series of actions and initiatives in the 12 critical areas identified in Beijing is an indication of the international community's renewed commitment to women's rights. Implementation of the norms enshrined in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women remains critical for the attainment of the goals set in Beijing. As technology brings the peoples of the world closer together, thus removing political and other barriers, societies continue to be ravaged by racial discrimination, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance, exemplified by “ethnic cleansing”, racial hatred and new forms of slavery. A challenge for the United Nations is to define goals and global strategies focused on urgent and effective measures to eliminate racial discrimination and ethnic conflicts. Lesotho thus welcomes the convening of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, to be held in South Africa in 2001. This Conference will offer an opportunity for us to develop action-oriented measures to rid the world of these scourges. Preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction — nuclear, chemical and biological — remains one of the most important tasks facing humankind in the twenty-first century, as these weapons remain a major threat to world peace. The pursuit of arms reduction and the challenge of achieving sustainable disarmament thus remain the 21 only bulwark against the use or threat of use of weapons of mass destruction. While we welcome the nuclear-weapon States' undertaking to eliminate their nuclear arsenals, their failure to agree to a specific timetable for doing so is regrettable. The challenge is to translate these undertakings into concrete actions to eliminate all nuclear dangers. We thus support the Secretary- General's call for a new international conference on eliminating nuclear dangers as a means of advancing our disarmament goals. We also remain convinced of the need and desirability of convening a special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament. Thanks to the efforts of all actors, both governmental and non-governmental, the world is beginning to witness tangible results as the production, trade and use of landmines slowly drops, thus lowering the number of casualties. This, however, should not lead to any complacency, as evidence of the use of mines in some conflict areas, particularly in Africa, continues to surface. We look forward to a day when the world will be free of these weapons and encourage all those who continue to use mines, as well as those who remain outside the Convention banning landmines, to heed the rapidly growing international and regional momentum for the ban on those weapons. Lesotho supports the convening of a United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects in June and July 2001, as mandated by General Assembly resolution 54/54. We share the view that the outcome of the Conference should be a global action plan with specific timetables for the implementation of commitments on issues such as codes of conduct, legislative and regulatory measures, control, enforcement, transparency, and tracing measures and mechanisms. The proliferation of armed conflicts in Africa continues to hamper efforts to achieve progress in economic and social development. The lack of political will to find lasting solutions to ongoing conflicts and the emergence of new ones continues to effectively cripple the productive activities of those countries as well as further erode the poor social infrastructure that exists in many countries. The illicit trade in arms, diamonds and other natural resources, as well as the diversion of resources from development to military activities, continue to fuel these conflicts, thus undermining democracy and development. The challenge for Africa remains the management and resolution of conflicts, the avoidance of war and the strengthening of democratic institutions. These are enormous challenges which require Africa's commitment to stability and the rule of law, but, above all, they require strong political will on the part of the Africans themselves and resources from the international community to reinforce democratic government, to deter attempts to overthrow it and even to reinstate it where it has been overthrown by illegal means. We in Lesotho have bitter experience of attempts to overthrow a legally and democratically elected Government. Thanks to our SADC partners, order has been restored in Lesotho and the Government is vigorously pursuing a programme of reconstruction, which includes the creation of a climate of political reconciliation on which the consolidation of democratic gains and democratic culture can rest. The Government of Lesotho remains fully committed to developing a culture of democracy, good governance, observance of human rights and constitutionality. The international community's assistance remains indispensable to the success of these efforts. We therefore stand solidly behind the position held by the Organization of African Unity, SADC and the Commonwealth of disallowing Governments that come into power by illegal means from participating in our councils. This should include our councils in the United Nations. Despite positive steps being taken by the Government of Angola to stabilize the situation in that country, peace continues to elude the people of Angola because of the non-fulfilment by Jonas Savimbi of the Lusaka Protocol. We urge the international community to observe all Security Council resolutions against UNITA and to fully cooperate with the United Nations to ensure the effective implementation of sanctions against UNITA. We appeal to all parties to the Congolese conflict to honour their obligations under the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement and to lend their support to the process of internal dialogue under the facilitation of Sir Ketumile Masire of Botswana. We support all measures aimed at ending the illicit trade in diamonds in Sierra Leone and applaud the Economic Community of West African States for its efforts to bring peace to that country. We are 22 gratified to see the cessation of hostilities between Ethiopia and Eritrea and call on both parties to that conflict to redouble their efforts for a lasting peace. We also urge all armed groups in Burundi to fully and effectively participate in the negotiations so as to facilitate the speedy conclusion of a ceasefire agreement and a comprehensive peace accord. We look forward to the conclusion of the process in Western Sahara so that the people of that country can freely determine their own future. We reaffirm the right of the Palestinian people to exercise their inalienable rights and we urge parties to the Middle East peace process to redouble their efforts to find durable peace in the Middle East. The real test for the United Nations in this century is how far it is prepared to go in addressing all these challenges and how far it will go in turning promises into reality, thus enabling the large majority of the people of the world to fulfil their potential and realize their aspirations. While we appreciate the magnitude of these challenges, we continue to have faith in the United Nations capacity to solve global problems, its broad universal support and its ability to uphold and reaffirm our shared values of peace, equity, social justice, democracy and human rights.  Mr. President, allow me to join previous speakers in congratulating you on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Nauru, like your Government, has full confidence in your ability to conduct the affairs the Assembly effectively and efficiently. Through you, Sir, Nauru congratulates the outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia, for a job well done which climaxed with the successful and unprecedented Millennium Summit. The Republic of Nauru has just passed its first anniversary as a Member of this esteemed Organization with a Permanent Mission in New York that is just nine months old. The admission of our brother island from the Pacific, Tuvalu, as the 189th Member of the Organization, is a most welcome development. On behalf of my Government, I extend to Tuvalu our warm welcome into the brotherhood of nations. My delegation commends the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his team at the Secretariat for their well-crafted report entitled “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. The report has captured, in one document, the agony and ecstasy of the United Nations as it journeyed through its triumphs and failures over the past 55 years of its existence. The purpose of our presence in this parliament of the peoples of the United Nations is not to bask in the ecstasy of past achievements but to pledge anew our commitment and determination to face the problems that continue to confront humanity, and to support the launching of the United Nations on a new crusade to engage the tempestuous challenges encapsulated in chapter VII of the Secretary-General's report. In conjunction with this, the heads of State or Government of Member States have mandated the Assembly, by their solemn act of adopting the outcome document, to implement the call for action. It is further encouraging to hear Foreign Ministers expound upon and reinforce the commitments that their respective heads of State or 22 Government made at the Millennium Summit. It is now for the doers to deliver the goods, so to speak. It is here that the greatest challenges lie. It is indisputable that the issues before us are not new but are unfinished business, and the most difficult on which to make progress. The problem is in the interaction between Member States for the purpose of delivering agreed instruments that will act as platforms by which Member States will be obligated to adopt and implement at the national level. It is therefore my delegation's strong view that our first priority is to revitalize and further strengthen the foundation for collaboration and cooperation among Member States on the one hand, and between the United Nations and the appropriate intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations on the other. That is, not only must we resolve to provide the United Nations with the allocated resources and processes to perform its tasks effectively, but we must also repair the negative undercurrents and detrimental practices that inhibit the achievement of desired outcomes. In this regard, Nauru considers the following actions to be necessary steps towards this goal. First, we must revitalize the work and restore the authority of the General Assembly as the only universally representative body of the United Nations. Second, there is a need to address the ongoing marginalization of the smaller and less affluent Member States. Third, we must expedite the reform of the Security Council. Nauru believes that an expansion in Security Council membership is the politically correct action to take, and we urge participants and facilitators alike to expedite the work of the Working Group. Fourth, the preference for unanimity as the means of deciding on issues under consideration is, in our view, a major factor behind the delay in reaching agreed solutions and has on more than one occasion resulted in the dilution of outcomes. Setting such a high standard, when the principal organs of the United Nations come to decisions on a two-thirds majority basis, is self-defeating. Nauru takes the view that a unanimous outcome should be a target only, and not a rule. Fifth, financial resources need to be shored up. The timely and unconditional payment of assessed contributions will enable the United Nations to discharge its responsibilities in a timely manner. Voluntary contributions are also a very essential source of funds to support the work of the subsidiary bodies and agencies through trust funds established under the United Nations. Nauru commends those Member States that contribute to such trust funds over and above their assessed contributions, and we also recognize and praise the important contribution that private trust funds such as the Ted Turner Foundation make to the work of the United Nations and its main agencies. Sixth, a number of covenants remain dormant due either to the lack of signatories to bring them into force or to the lack of ratification by States that have signed. We thus call for all States to make a commitment to bringing outstanding international agreements into force. Seventh, the Secretary-General's reform initiatives of 1997 must be brought to bear in the shortest time possible so that the limited resources of the United Nations are put to work more on the programmes of action and less on running the administrative machineries. We urge that the Secretariat continue to review its operations on a timely basis as it strives to do more with less. The President of the Republic of Nauru, in his intervention in the round-table discussion, expressed his disappointment that the core responsibilities of the United Nations regarding the rights of peoples to self- determination and freedom from alien domination did not rank as importantly as the other issues currently before us. The fact that there are still 17 countries listed in the Special Political and Decolonization Committee, coupled with the non-settlement of long- standing disputes between States over their borders, and the continuing existence of stateless people, may be indicative of the priority that these issues receive within the United Nations. For Nauru, the continued refusal of the United Nations to deal with the plight of the millions of Chinese on the island of Taiwan is tantamount to avoiding its core responsibilities. By no stretch of the imagination could we be convinced that the Republic of China on Taiwan is a province of China. Nauru has no doubt that the condition that unification should take place through “peaceful” means, adopted by the United States and its allies as part of their “one China” policy, has helped maintain relative calm in the region. It is 23 incumbent upon the United Nations, under the appropriate Articles of the Charter, and the international community to find a lasting solution to the problem. The United Nations cannot claim to be a truly universally representative world body as long as the people of Taiwan continue to be excluded from this Organization. East Timor is a classic case of the United Nations not paying attention to the concerns of the Pacific region. Undoubtedly, had the United Nations, through the Security Council, acted at the time it was prompted to do so by the Governments of the region, the human carnage and immeasurable damage to property would have been far less, and perhaps even avoided altogether. It is in this vein that Nauru is raising the matter of West Papua. Our head of State stated Nauru's position on the issue in his intervention at the Millennium Summit, and I will therefore not repeat it here. However, the Nauru Mission to the United Nations has been instructed to take the necessary steps towards putting together a resolution on West Papua's call for a new and democratically run referendum on the question of independence from Indonesia, in the spirit of the 1962 New York Agreement between the Netherlands and Indonesia. We ask for the Assembly's support of this just cause. Flowing from these issues of security and peace is the issue of the safety and survival of humankind from weapons of mass destruction, illicit trade in small arms and light weapons and the pandemic of the HIV/AIDS virus. Despite the establishment of several initiatives by the United Nations in its effort to make progress on and expedite the question of disarmament, it is sad to note that progress is at a snail's pace, due mainly to resistance by most nuclear-weapon States to disarm. In the Pacific region, which has been declared a nuclear-weapon-free zone by the Rarotonga Treaty, the transboundary shipment of nuclear fuel and other radioactive material in the waters of States parties to the Waigani Convention are banned. Our efforts through the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) process, as well as bilateral and multilateral initiatives to protect our ecosystem and seas against accidents from these shipments in the high seas of our region, have been met with strong opposition by shipping States that, unlike us, are not dependent on the sea and its ecosystem for their livelihoods. In this regard, Nauru supports the call by the Secretary-General to convene a special session of the General Assembly to address the nuclear disarmament issue, as we are not satisfied with the pace of progress in the other forums. At the other end of the scale, small arms and light weapons obtained through illicit trade account for much of the political, ethnic and criminal killings and human suffering that occur in the less affluent countries of the world. The tranquil South Pacific has not been spared from this deadly trade. The United Nations will be convening the first Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects next year, and it is our hope that Member States will not put national political interests ahead of the desires of the international community to eradicate this illegal and offensive activity. International efforts to contain the HIV/AIDS epidemic from spreading have not been successful in the least developed and developing countries, particularly in Africa. The prohibitive cost of treatment and social attitudes are the major constraints that these countries face in combating the pandemic. We are satisfied with the efforts of the United Nations to combat the epidemic, efforts that are largely being carried out through the World Health Organization and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS. However, it is obvious that the United Nations needs the help of affluent countries to provide medicine and medical experts in support of its efforts. In this regard, Nauru has joined in the sponsorship of a draft resolution calling on the General Assembly to take up the issue and deal with it under its authority. Poverty continues to be the major concern for the developing world. The fact that the number of least developed countries is stagnant at 48, with the possibility of another 3 countries being added to the list, is testimony to the fact that current programmes are not working. The Secretary General's report entitled “We the peoples” lists some ambitious initiatives to accomplish freedom from want for humanity. We strongly endorse the call for setting time- bound goals in making resolute commitments to the world's poorest and most vulnerable. Next year's conference on least developed countries and financing for development will be our first test since the Millennium Summit of our sincerity to move from rhetoric to action on the important issue of poverty alleviation. 24 The Pacific is a region that demands special attention. Projections by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific estimate growth in the Pacific region to be only about 2 per cent during the next three years, as compared to around 6 per cent for the rest of Asia. My own country is expected to experience several more years of negative growth, as our single resource and industry — phosphate — comes to the end of its natural life. Small island developing States, and the Pacific islands in particular, face special difficulties is making the transition to globalization. They will need time to adjust to changes in the external trade regime and to the consequent changes in their economies. Our particular vulnerabilities should be recognized as justifying special consideration to deal with such issues as the global process of trade liberalization. The removal of special protective regimes continues to occur. The South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission has been developing an environmental vulnerability index with input from both the United Nations and the Commonwealth Secretariat. Nauru, along with the other small island developing States in the Pacific, is gratified at the support it has received from several developed countries to finance the project to fruition. We urge that this work be incorporated into the work of the United Nations, especially into the work of the Committee for Development Policy and that of the Bretton Woods institutions. For all of us in the Pacific, the ocean is our major resource. It provides us with food, income from the sale of fish stocks caught in our respective zones and, through the natural cycle of evaporation and condensation, it is also a vital source of our fresh water. It may also prove to be the source of the demise of many low-lying Pacific islands from global warming and the resultant rise in sea levels. The Rio Conference in 1992 provided the foundations for international action. The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is an important step forward. But those responses may prove to be too few, too little and too late for many small islands. We urge the community of nations to implement the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Nations and the private sector must incorporate “green accounting” into their practices in order to integrate the environment into economic policy. Suitable regulations and incentives need to be designed into the web of governance. Agenda 21 and the Barbados Programme of Action continue to be the guiding principles for the sustainable development of our region and the protection of our environments. My delegation is pleased to note that the World Bank has adopted much of the relevant language in its programmes but it, and the rest of the developed countries, need to commit to maintain and, where possible, to expand overall levels of support for small States' development, in terms of both advocacy and the provision of technical assistance. Fishing offers the best hope for the future sustenance of the smaller island countries that have no mineral resources and/or tourism to contribute to the national treasury. Nauru therefore reaffirms the importance of the sustainable integrated management and conservation of living marine resources in the world's oceans, and the obligations of States to cooperate to that end. We again call for an end to unsustainable and damaging practices, such as drift-net fishing, offshore dumping and high-seas pollution. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a threat to the economic development of coastal States in the Pacific, Caribbean and Latin American regions, whose national incomes are heavily dependent on the export of fish. The efforts by the United Nations to convene the first open-ended informal consultative process on the oceans and the Law of the Sea has enabled States to address those issues with a view to reporting the deliberations of the consultation to the General Assembly for its consideration and further action. Another area where small States, including our own, have been successful in generating income for the national treasury is in the provision of onshore and offshore financial services. However, pressure has been applied by the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to blacklist countries that do not meet the anti-money-laundering standards of those international bodies. We understand and accept the need to have an anti-money-laundering regime, and many small island States have gone a long way to implement those requirements. For its part, the Government of Nauru recently issued a letter of commitment to the United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention to 25 undertake the United Nations minimum performance standards on anti-money-laundering initiatives. Regrettably, the compliance level has been raised unilaterally by the OECD to include harmful tax competition — which has nothing to do with money- laundering and other financial crimes. This is wrong in international law and violates both the letter and spirit of many United Nations resolutions regarding the intervention of international organizations in the domestic jurisdiction of States. Such unilateral action is not acceptable to Nauru. For the Pacific region, the question of the equitable representation of the 11 Pacific island countries in the bodies and commissions of the United Nations is of vital importance. Until 20 years ago, it may have been reasonable to have Australia and New Zealand in the Group of Western European and other States and a handful of Pacific islands in the Asian Group. However, with the increase in membership since that time, and the addition of a number of Pacific island nations in recent times, it is incumbent upon the United Nations to review the groupings. Oceania is a distinct and internationally recognized region of the world. The Asian Group presently constitutes member countries from the Middle East, Central Asia, China, Japan, the two Koreas, the member countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the Pacific island countries. The 11 Pacific island countries are drowning in the Asian Group, while Australia and New Zealand, the godfathers of the Pacific island countries, are marooned in the Group of Western European and other States. The parliaments of the ASEAN member countries, Japan, the Republic of Korea and the Pacific island countries are members of a regional body called the Asian-Pacific Parliamentarians Union. It is a well- recognized body in the various regional and international parliamentary forums. This model could be used as the basis for a new regional group within the United Nations, with the inclusion of Australia and New Zealand. In our view, this new grouping would provide the best opportunity for those Member States to be equitably represented in the work of the United Nations. In conclusion, Nauru would like to reiterate the importance of Member States making concerted efforts to strengthen the fundamentals of multilateralism. At the same time, the United Nations must assert its leadership role through the coordination of all key players in keeping the peace and fighting poverty and transboundary crimes, as well as with regard to humanitarian initiatives, the protection of human rights and the rights of the child, and in the fight against inequity and inequality. Only through such collaborative efforts can we move the United Nations in the direction that our leaders have agreed it must go.  ﻿I would like to sincerely congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this, the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session, which serves as a bridge between two millennia. I would like to assure you that you will have the full cooperation of my delegation. I would also like to pay homage to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the valuable contribution he made to the work of this Assembly, as well as for his contribution to the preparations for the Millennium Summit. 14 During that Summit, less than one week ago, the heads of State and Government of the Member States of the United Nations adopted a Declaration. The specific commitments and objectives contained in that Declaration pose a complex challenge. Their implementation will require sustained efforts on the part of each of the members of the international community. In making those efforts, all of us small and large, rich and poor should keep in mind the common responsibility we bear for the future of our civilization. The Secretary-General's millennium report and the Declaration it inspired reflect with the greatest eloquence the tasks and the requirements, as well as the worries and fears, facing our planet. And those ideas have been expressed at an opportune moment: the threshold of the new millennium. By taking up the work of implementing this major programme of action, we will be undertaking the indispensable process of addressing the increasingly pressing global problems we are facing. One of the great lessons of the decade that has just passed, and also of the Millennium Summit, is that with the vanishing of the bipolar world order, East- West confrontation has been replaced by North-South problems. We believe that everything possible must be done so that this divide does not become rigid and so that the problems and difficulties it poses do not persist for too long. The Secretary-General's millennium report, the document adopted during the Summit of heads of State and Government, the many speeches we heard during the Summit they all show that the international community recognizes and has assessed the scale of the challenges that globalization is forcing it to take up, and they show that the international community is searching for solutions to pressing issues, with the goal of reducing the appalling disparities in the world. There are many such issues and problems. They include poverty, the increasing economic and social gaps between the developed and developing countries, environmental issues, organized crime, international terrorism, AIDS and other diseases, drugs, human migration, the use of the Internet to sow intolerance and extremist ideas, and so forth. It is no exaggeration to say that, in order to ensure a stable, just and prosperous future for all humanity, we must, as soon as possible, get down to work on following up on the decisions that have been taken and on creating international legal standards to the extent necessary. These standards should also be developed in the fields of trade, finance and human rights most specifically to protect the rights of ethnic, linguistic or religious minorities. As part of this undertaking, it is important to reinforce good governance and solidarity. Let us recall that the great transformation of the world's political, security, socio-economic and scientific landscape has been accompanied by a remarkable evolution the return of man to the central place that is properly his on the international chessboard, and by a rediscovery of the purpose of governmental action at the national and international levels. It is not a question of safeguarding States and Governments but of protecting people and communities, human beings, men and women who compose our societies. We must thus realize that political and legislative practices and our future activities in the codification of international law must adequately reflect that fundamental fact that we now see re-emerging. In this context, the millions of victims of the conflicts afflicting the world and the daily tragedies we continually see mean that we cannot stand with our arms crossed, that we must try to find as quickly as possible a response to the practical and theoretical dilemmas that have been haunting us for some time. There are conflicts within States accompanied by serious violations of the human rights and genuine humanitarian crises. The national authorities, wherever they may be, must not be allowed to systematically persecute their own populations on a massive scale with complete impunity while taking shelter behind certain principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The international community must deal with these situations with a new vision and philosophy that reflect the realities and the spirit of our contemporary world. As a result of our proximity to the ex-Yugoslavia, my country, Hungary, has felt the whole weight of these problems over the last decade. We have been witness to the serious delays on the part of the community of nations that has prevented it from acting in time in Bosnia and Rwanda, and elsewhere, with the appropriate means on the basis of a mandate corresponding to the real nature of the situation and with the necessary political will. That is why we welcome Mr. Brahimi's report on peacekeeping operations. We are ready to begin without delay the 15 necessary work to examine and implement these recommendations. With regard to the Balkan region, the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe that came into being one year ago is an initiative for prevention and reconstruction which offers the countries and the peoples of that part of the continent the possibility to leave their conflicts behind, to settle their differences and to open up new prospects for cooperation. Hungary attaches great importance to this and will make its own contribution to this vital enterprise, particularly in the field of strengthening democratic forces in the region and in human rights, including the rights of minorities. Within this context, a democratic evolution in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will undoubtedly have a stabilizing effect on the region as a whole and will make it possible to bring to an end the isolation of Serbia from the major European and international currents. The elections scheduled for the end of September offer us an occasion to set this process under way. Such an evolution will enable us to normalize relations between Serbia and Montenegro. One of the global problems facing us is undoubtedly the question of conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction. We appeal for new progress in the field of light weapons and anti- personnel mines, the victims of which are basically innocent civilians. The 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of nuclear weapons marked an important step forward in the search for a safer future for humanity. The document adopted there reaffirms the central role of the treaty in the field of non-proliferation and the need for international agreement to this end. We hope that between now and the next review conference, to be held in 2005, we will be able to undertake the process of implementing the programme of action which was adopted to promote non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. From this point of view we attach particular importance to the initiation of work towards a treaty on the prohibition of fissile materials for military purposes. We have also been following very closely the negotiations designed to draw up a verification protocol on the Biological Weapons Convention, which will enter a decisive phase on the eve of the review conference set for 2001. Hungary will chair the ad hoc group charged with formulating a mechanism in that connection and will do everything in its power to achieve the objective over the course of next year. Hungary considers the adoption of the Statute of the International Criminal Court one of the most important international achievements in the field of international law. This Statute is aimed at imposing rules of international humanitarian law and at ending an era of impunity. Nineteen States have already ratified the Statute, and the number of signatures is now 112. Hungary views this with pleasure and will pursue its own preparations for ratification of the Statute. We will continue to participate actively in negotiations to bring about universal acceptance of the Court while preserving the integrity of its Statute. The reform of our world Organization has been on the agenda for some time. Recent events throughout the world particularly unprecedented changes in the political and military order, economic evolution, progress in the fields of science and informatics, and the end of the century that symbolizes very tangibly the dawn of a new era full of both promises and uncertainty have transformed the desire to see the United Nations adapt to the realities of our time into an imperative that will no longer tolerate any deviations or hesitation. Consequently, our first task is to face in a determined way the tremendous challenges awaiting us in the twenty-first century. The political will of Member States cannot be lacking if we really wish to make every effort to support the laudable efforts of the Secretary-General to achieve this adaptation process. This will involve, among other things, reforming the Security Council and the budgetary system, which is necessary to strengthen the credibility and efficacy of our world Organization. The more quickly we can reform the Organization according to the requirements of this critical period, the more reassured people throughout the world will be as to the future of the planet.   At the outset, I would like to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your well-deserved election to the presidency of this historic Millennium Assembly. We firmly believe that, under your able stewardship, the first session of the General Assembly in the new century will be a resounding success. This session provides us with an opportune moment to take stock of the track record of the Organization, its achievements and the areas where it needs to be strengthened so that it will be equal to the challenges of the new century. I also wish to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, for the leadership he provided us in our preparations for this Millennium Assembly and for his tireless efforts and the dedication, skill and intelligent management with which he led the last session of the General Assembly of the twentieth century to a successful conclusion. My delegation is most delighted to see in our midst Tuvalu as a new Member of this world Organization. With the admission of Tuvalu as the 189th Member of this Organization, our objective of universal membership is closer to reality. On behalf of the delegation of the Union of Myanmar, I would like to extend our warmest congratulations to the delegation of Tuvalu. After the Second World War, under the Charter of the United Nations, we established the present system of collective security. Since then, we have witnessed substantial changes in the geopolitical map of the world, leading to new realities in international relations. There is a strong consensus that our Organization must be reformed and adapted to the new realities in order to enable it to effectively respond to the new challenges. This consensus has resulted in various measures and proposals to reform the Organization, including a process to make the Security Council more effective, democratic, transparent and accountable. When this process started in 1993, we had hoped that we would have completed the reform of the Council by the beginning of the new millennium. After seven years of discussion on the reform of the Council, however, reality has revealed that the issue we took on was so complex that it could not be resolved quickly. While there has been convergence of ideas on some areas, in others we have come to an impasse. This does not mean that we should give up. On the contrary, we should explore new possible avenues to enhance the momentum we have gained. We must make use of this historic opportunity to give added impetus to reforming the Council so that it meets the needs of our time. We believe that, at this stage of deliberations, we should identify areas of possible agreement and build on them. For instance, it appears to be generally agreed that the Council should be expanded in both categories of permanent and non-permanent membership. Similarly, a majority of countries tends to agree that the new members should come from among the developed and developing countries alike. While we continue our discussion on other aspects of the issue, it would be conducive to the reform process if we could establish general agreement on such possible areas where our views converge. I trust that the future discussions among us will give serious thought to these possibilities. We must redouble the efforts to reform our Organization so that it can truly serve us in our endeavour to build a better world. As we enter the new millennium, we find to our dismay and alarm that some major international issues persist in defying our collective creativity and attempts to solve them. We must not let these setbacks cast a shadow over the credibility and effectiveness of this Organization. We consider it our primary duty to focus our attention on those questions dealing with development as well as those dealing with peace and security. Despite the efforts of the international community, peace throughout the Middle East remains elusive. We hope that the important progress made so far will pave the way for achieving a just and lasting peace in the region. We would like to see an enduring peace in the Middle East, one which would guarantee the restoration of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and the right of Israel to exist within secure and recognized borders. There are many other questions that merit our attention. One such question I wish to bring to the attention of the Assembly is that of Cyprus. This question has been on the Assembly's agenda for the last 26 years. We are heartened to note that the United Nations is now engaged in another effort to solve the 13 problem. Myanmar has consistently supported the negotiations between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities under the auspices of the United Nations Secretary-General, and we would like to take this opportunity to pledge our continued full support for the task. Let me touch upon an important question that is of serious concern to the international community and on which we in Myanmar place special emphasis. I am referring to the problem of narcotic drugs. Nationally speaking, this is a problem that we inherited from the colonial administration. The poppy plant, from which opium is harvested, is not native to Myanmar. It was introduced into our country by the colonial administration, which relied on licensed opium dens as a source of revenue. Since then, this evil scourge has bedevilled the country. Successive Governments have been relentless in their efforts to eradicate the problem of narcotic drugs. Thus, the eradication of poppy cultivation remains one of the top priorities for Myanmar. Notwithstanding the harsh and undue criticism levelled against Myanmar for a problem with wide international dimensions, our sustained efforts to combat the problem of narcotic drugs have resulted in a noticeable drop in opium cultivation and production. This fact is acknowledged by the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB). Here, it bears reiteration that narcotic drugs are a global problem, to be solved in a concerted manner and through global efforts. The problem must be tackled in a holistic manner, both from the production side and the demand reduction side. National efforts must be supported by international assistance and cooperation. Myanmar has been trying to combat this global problem mainly with its own resources. Except for the assistance provided by the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCP), no substantial assistance has been provided to Myanmar in its current efforts to combat this global menace. This is tantamount to making a travesty of the much-avowed principle of shared responsibility. Despite our efforts, Myanmar has been a target of unfair criticism and censure. An objective assessment will identify which countries are making real efforts to effectively tackle this global problem and which countries are paying mere lip service. The fact of the matter is that the scourge of narcotic drugs is not the sole responsibility of any one country. No country acting on its own can successfully overcome this menace. To tackle this global problem, we must join hands and cooperate with each other. Myanmar stands ready to do so. The principles enshrined in the Charter have served the world community well for more than five decades. Sovereignty, sovereign equality, respect for territorial integrity and non-intervention in internal affairs are cardinal principles that remain vital for the peace and security of all nations. These are irreplaceable bedrock principles underpinning the current international system. These are the principles that have enabled the international community to successfully deter world conflagrations. Therefore, we are greatly dismayed by the recent tendency in some quarters to cast doubt on the continued soundness of these basic principles. There are some who are bent on compromising these cardinal principles of international relations, voicing support for interference in countries' internal affairs on various grounds. This is indeed a dangerous trend, with dangerous implications for the peace and stability of our international system. At a time when the powerful increasingly make use of various international forums to fulfil their hidden political agendas, a very valid question must be posed: who determines the existence of a situation that warrants interference in internal affairs? The justification of interference in internal affairs under certain conditions is a concept easily vulnerable to abuse by the powerful for their narrow national interests. Interference, even for such a worthy cause as humanitarian assistance, can undermine the principles of neutrality and impartiality, thus endangering the entire system of humanitarian assistance. A well-intentioned mistake can unravel the fabric of the present international system, which has stood us in good stead. No nation is entirely free from problems or difficulties. While some are more successful in solving their problems, others are less successful. There are some situations where the assistance of the international community is necessary to resolve these issues and difficulties; in other situations, national measures would best suit the situation. In trying to resolve these problems, a proper understanding and a correct perspective on the issue, both historical and current, are necessary. A solution obtained without such understanding and perspective is tantamount to treating the symptoms rather than the disease. 14 A careful look at countries with ongoing conflicts demonstrates that some issues are not susceptible to an easy and quick solution. They are deeply rooted in intra-State tensions and mistrust that have been lingering for hundreds of years. There are instances when seemingly successful solutions causing fleeting euphoria have turned out to be pyrrhic victories. This is principally because the root causes were never thoroughly understood and addressed. Furthermore, appropriate and pragmatic national attempts at finding lasting solutions should be encouraged and supported. There are many cases where the role of the international community is indispensable. There are also many other cases where its proper role should be limited to assisting the State concerned in its efforts, complementing those efforts only where necessary. The situation in Myanmar has been the subject of unfair scrutiny and political pressure by a number of powerful countries for quite some time. Therefore, I find it appropriate to take this opportunity to apprise the Members of the Organization of the situation in my country. The Government of Myanmar is in the process of establishing a democratic society. In this endeavour, it has chosen the path that is most suitable to the country, its people and its historical peculiarities. Contemporary history has shown that the transition to democracy from a totally different and centralized political and economic system is not always smooth. It requires ingenuity, patience and understanding to make the process peaceful. Here I wish to underscore that the present Myanmar Government is making all-out efforts to solve the most fundamental problem of the country: the consolidation of national unity. Without satisfactorily resolving this basic question, the objectives of democracy, peace, prosperity and stability will not be realized. National unity will not be consolidated if we cannot address issues such as the eradication of poverty, equitable distribution of national wealth and the maintenance of peace and security. The people of Myanmar share the view that these issues must be adequately addressed first and foremost in order to achieve the emergence of a developed, peaceful and prosperous State. It is at this important and delicate juncture that all sorts of superficial and unsubstantiated charges are being made against us, placing many obstacles along our chosen path to democracy. This line of approach will only perpetuate the existing programmes in the country. It will give rise to unnecessary delays in our current democratization process. Here I wish to stress that it was a situation of chaos and anarchy that had threatened the country's survival as a State and that led the Tatmadaw, the armed forces, to assume State power. Although the present Government is a military government, the country is not governed by martial law. The entire body of legislation remains in place and the country is governed according to these legal provisions. The country also retains an independent judicial system. Despite all obstacles placed in our path to development and against all odds, we have made considerable achievements, both economically and politically. On the political front, because of the Government's endeavour to build national unity, 17 armed groups have returned to the legal fold. We have been able to establish unprecedented peace and tranquillity. We have also made considerable strides in the country's economy. The country's gross domestic product continues to grow year after year. The economy registered 10.9 per cent growth last year. This growth pattern is expected to continue this year. The effective control of inflation also resulted in an appreciable increase in the living standard of the people of Myanmar. The people of the country are fully conscious of all these remarkable achievements. They are fully aware that they themselves are the direct beneficiaries of these positive results. The Government is determined to redouble its efforts to bring about peace and stability and a better standard of life for the people of Myanmar. The peace and stability that we have today do not come easily. It is only in recent years that peace and stability returned to virtually all corners of the country. What we are doing is laying down a firm foundation necessary to build a modern, prosperous and peaceful nation. Far from recognizing the unprecedented achievements made by the Government, some Western countries have imposed on us political pressure and unilateral sanctions. International financial institutions are being used to deny us our rightful loans and assistance. These are hampering all our sincere and vigorous efforts to address the pressing problems of the nation and to uplift the country to a prosperous stage. However, we will continue on our chosen path of building a democratic society best suited to our 15 traditions, thus fulfilling the aspirations of our people. We are resolute in our determination to develop the country in the shortest possible time. In accordance with Myanmar's foreign policy, Myanmar makes every effort to forge friendly relations with all countries. In conformity with this time-tested policy, we have successfully established friendly and close relations with all neighbouring countries. It is a policy that we pursue in our relations with fellow members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), countries of the region and all other countries of the world. I wish to take this opportunity to urge those countries that now have negative views on Myanmar to look at our situation in a more objective manner. We are building a democratic society, a society in which peace and stability prevails, a society where our people can enjoy a better life in larger freedom. What we urgently need in the new century is the realization of a just and an equitable international order. We need an international order where right, and not might, prevails. In establishing such an international order, the United Nations is the only organization that can provide the necessary leadership. The envisaged international order must also respect the right of every nation to adopt the political, economic and social systems that best suit its domestic context. It must be an international order in which the legitimate desire of every nation for justice and equality is accepted by powerful States with understanding and sympathy. In this, the role of the United Nations, as the principal intergovernmental institution of universal nature, is irreplaceable. Hegemonic tendencies and power politics will certainly undermine the basis of international relations and will thereby jeopardize our system of collective security. It is my fervent hope that every Member State will play its part and make this Organization equal to the challenges of the new century. At this Millennium Assembly let us all resolve to translate the ideals of the Organization into a concrete reality through cooperation, goodwill and firm commitments.  First let me warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election, which is doubly significant, as few Prime Ministers have held the post of President of the General Assembly. Your unique practical experience in both domestic and international affairs will stand us in good stead as we try to reform the United Nations. I also thank your distinguished predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the excellent work he has done and for ushering the United Nations successfully into the new millennium. As a fellow small State, Singapore is also delighted to extend a warm welcome to Tuvalu, the United Nations newest Member. We hope that Tuvalu will also join the Forum of Small States. As the text of my speech has been circulated, in the interest of saving time I will not read the entire text. The recently concluded Millennium Summit confirmed that the United Nations, whatever its imperfections, remains an indispensable organization. The overriding theme of the speeches in plenary meetings was the need for the United Nations to be revitalized and better equipped to deal with the challenges of the twenty-first century. Our immediate challenge is to respond with concrete follow-up. This may be stating the obvious but doing it will not be easy nor is it assured. The United Nations record of implementation, it must be conceded, has not always inspired confidence. In his report to the Millennium Summit, the Secretary-General drew attention to a 1999 Gallup poll of some 57,000 individuals in 60 countries. One conclusion was that, globally, less than half of those interviewed judged the performance of the United Nations to be satisfactory. We need to reflect on this. But it is also an unfortunate fact that the United Nations has not usually got credit for what it has done successfully, while continuing to attract criticism for what it has not yet done. Thus, a critical political factor — hitherto inadequately addressed — is how to manage expectations. Managing expectations is a key to success. The window of opportunity opened for the United Nations by the end of the cold war was perhaps squandered by an overly ambitious agenda, leading almost inevitably to disillusionment. We should not repeat this mistake after the Millennium Summit. To resolutely implement the Summit's results, we must not only accurately identify them, but engage in a realistic assessment of what is and is not possible. Otherwise, we risk undermining the political will and support needed for the United Nations to be effective. The United Nations serves two essential functions for our community of nations. It provides all of us with a valuable instrument to advance our common interests, including the setting of norms for relations between nations and on human rights. It also provides each of us with an important avenue to advance or defend our national interests. There is no necessary contradiction between these two functions. That which is in the interest of humanity ought to be in our individual national interests. But the practical problem is in identifying what is common and reconciling different national interests. The twentieth century has seen a creative tension between two apparently contradictory sets of ideals: the sovereignty of nation States and the progressive elaboration of international law and organization. Sovereignty implies the right of each State to determine for itself its own rules. Yet today States interact within a web of complex relationships, international institutions and regimes, covering an ever-widening range of matters, which implies a serious limitation of sovereignty. We live with this apparent contradiction every day. But we do not have to choose between the two ideals of absolute sovereignty or absolute international law and organization. The real question is how to strike an appropriate balance to move forward. It was therefore timely for the Secretary-General to convene the Millennium Summit. We now have a broad consensus on what to do to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. The question then is: how do we proceed from here. Taking a narrower but more focused approach may be the only practical solution to many seemingly intractable issues. But I do not underestimate the complexities of putting this into practice. Let me illustrate the complexities with reference to two of the core functions of the United Nations: development and security. 14 On development, earlier calls for a new international economic order fell on deaf ears. The stalemate in North-South negotiations over the last three decades or so was the direct consequence of the resistance on the part of certain developed countries to admit the necessity of changing the functioning of the world economy. However, I believe that resistance can be more easily overcome and the urgent remedial action that is needed may be easier to take if there is a mind-set shift by both developing and developed countries. The candid debate the leaders had at the recent interactive round table discussions saw a common acknowledgement that both the North and the South must find collective solutions to the problems of development. There was agreement that developing countries must be given help to build up capacity to benefit from the forces of globalization. The developed economies have also pointed out that they too face serious problems that can be attributed to the pressures of globalization. But there can be no doubt that the problems of the South are of a far greater magnitude and deserve far more attention. Domestic problems at home should not give the North any excuse to ignore their important international obligations. Today, it is commonly accepted that no country, whatever its development status, can afford to opt out of the global economy or go it alone. The issue for all is to develop the national capacity to take advantage of the benefits of globalization while mitigating its downsides. The United Nations is now in its fourth development decade. A new discipline for both developed and developing countries is needed if the results are to be less disappointing than the first three. The issue for the United Nations is to help the developing countries acquire the capabilities to deal with the pressures of globalization and to plug it. In this process, difficult domestic structural changes will be necessary to ensure that policies and institutions meet international best practices. These standards are today largely Western, but can and ought to be internationally negotiated. And it is imperative that the developed countries avoid a sterile “one-size- fits-all” prescription. As suggested by the Secretary- General, the United Nations can play a mediating role in the negotiations so that it will not be undertaken on the basis of categories biased towards zero-sum solutions. Instead, the United Nations can help develop “win-win” solutions for both developed and developing countries. However, the United Nations cannot work in isolation. The United Nations has a role to play to ensure that the international financial institutions like the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade Organization coordinate their efforts and work as one team. No other institution is better placed than the United Nations to do this. The United Nations is the natural forum for regular dialogues among the multilateral organizations to coordinate programmes that would help developing nations build capacity. The United Nations could also help make the decision-making processes of these organizations more transparent, consultative and inclusive. Turning next to security, the end of the cold war has obviously not meant the end to international conflict. In the eleven years since the end of 1989, when the Berlin Wall fell, the Security Council authorized some 40 peacekeeping operations. But in the preceding 42 years, it had authorized only 17. It has been estimated that the total cumulative amount of the United Nations peacekeeping budget from 1948 to 1989 was $3 billion. But since 1989, it has escalated to about $18 billion. Not only have the numbers and the costs of peacekeeping operations risen sharply, but their scope has also changed. Of the 40 peacekeeping operations authorized since 1989, only five were clearly in response to clear inter-State conflicts. Throughout history we have witnessed oppressive internal conflicts and human rights atrocities perpetuated by a State against its own people. The difference today is that with the advent of technology, instant communication through television, the Internet and the role of non-governmental organizations, these conflicts and atrocities are made known to the whole world instantaneously. Very few are regarded as purely local or regional situations. Most are regarded as internationalized. This galvanizing of public outrage leads to expectations that the international community must act. Often this increases the pressures on the United Nations and the Security Council to take interventionist actions, severely testing the United Nations capacity and stretching its resources. The dilemma is: how can the United Nations be responsive to these pressures if its Members are unwilling to give it the required resources. And if the United Nations 15 tries to be selective, how can it prevent itself from being accused of practising double standards? In 1995 Professor Paul Kennedy of Yale University, who headed a team of scholars retained by the United Nations Secretariat to study the future of the Organization, concluded that Member States faced an urgent decision: either to reduce their demands on the United Nations, thereby giving it a decent chance to carry on at a lower level of activity within existing resources, or to expand available resources so that the United Nations could meet what Professor Kennedy saw as inexorably growing demands from Member States unable to cope with the technological pace, population growth and environmental pressures of the twenty-first century. He concluded that, in the light of global circumstances, opting for expanded resources would be the wiser choice. There is now a growing consensus that it is important to ensure that the United Nations has adequate resources for its current and future peacekeeping activities. Discussions on how this can best be effected are already under way and Singapore supports them. Nevertheless, let us not forget that every prudent accounting must deal squarely with how decisions are made on peacekeeping operations. We have to be honest here. There is no level playing field. Most of the time, most decisions are in reality made by the permanent members of the Security Council. The rest of us have to pay our dues, but have a minimal say in the decisions. Hence, when we review the current peacekeeping scale of assessments, we hope that the Security Council will also review its current decision-making procedures. Recent developments in Africa serve as a sobering reminder of the need to undertake an urgent overhaul of United Nations peacekeeping. The Security Council met at the level of heads of State and Government during the Millennium Summit to discuss the need to ensure an effective role for it in maintaining international peace and security, particularly in Africa. Sadly, apart from a general description, the Security Council summit did not produce any new concrete proposals for or commitments to further action. The Council could and I believe should do better than this. Fortunately, the Brahimi Panel has come up with a set of concrete recommendations, which when put in place will significantly revamp United Nations peacekeeping. In a nutshell, the Panel advocated that should the United Nations decide to send a peacekeeping force to uphold peace, the peacekeepers must be rapidly deployed with a credible deterrence, and be authorized, with robust mandates, to carry out their mission and defend themselves. Only then can the tragedies of past peacekeeping operations be avoided. What this entails is that United Nations peacekeeping missions must be given the necessary resources, including better trained and better equipped peacekeepers, and receive better support from United Nations Headquarters — in particular, an enlarged Department of Peacekeeping Operations. In turn, Member States must have the political will to support the United Nations politically, financially and operationally. I think I have said enough to underscore the point that a focused approach is not necessarily an easier or less complex one, but I believe that it is the only practical way forward. The Secretary-General's report to the Millennium Summit was designed as a guide to action, and it should be actively used as such and not simply praised and then forgotten. We took the first step at the Millennium Summit by endorsing and adopting many of the proposals of the report in the form of a Millennium Declaration. The real challenge now is to fulfil the ambitious and wide-ranging promises that we have made to the world. Where are the material, financial and human resources to come from to fulfil our promises? The United Nations Secretariat and agencies by themselves obviously do not have them. The United Nations cannot do everything on its own. As the millennium report makes clear, the necessary long-term effort to deliver the solution will have to be shared — shared among national Governments, the United Nations, other international institutions and other important actors, such as corporations and non-governmental organizations. Then, and only then, will there be any chance of success. The Millennium Summit has provided a good basis on which to begin the process of practical negotiations that will lead to real solutions, rather than political posturing, which will only complicate already complex issues. We must start somewhere. I suggest that we start here and now. 16  Allow me first of all to convey the apologies of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Vanuatu, The Honourable Serge Vohor, who is unable to be here on this historic occasion due to most pressing commitments at home. I am therefore very deeply honoured to address the Assembly on behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Vanuatu. At the outset I wish to congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election to this historic session of the General Assembly. My delegation is confident that with his vast experience and diplomatic skills, he will guide this Assembly to a successful conclusion. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor, who so ably guided the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to congratulate Tuvalu as the newest Member of our family of nations. As a small island State, and, more significantly, a member of the South Pacific region, Vanuatu is very pleased to welcome Tuvalu. Vanuatu certainly hopes a further increase in the Pacific island membership would be a positive step in the region's economic and political development as we embark on the twenty-first century. Small island States, including Vanuatu, are continuously confronted by difficult and challenging issues, which must be addressed at this summit. For the Pacific region, its key features are its immense geographic spread, its small land and population base and limited natural resources, and its vulnerability to economic and natural shocks, which inevitably have an impact on its physical infrastructure and economic development. Dependence has been on a few fragile commodity markets and fickle tourist income. One of our greatest challenges is education for all. The Human Poverty Index of the Pacific Island 26 Countries shows Vanuatu as the third last of the least developed countries. Vanuatu shares the view that the key to development and success is education. As a signatory to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, Vanuatu is committed to this cause. However, limited financial and human resources continue to hinder development in this area. Vanuatu welcomes the initiative taken by the Secretary-General, in his address to the Dakar World Education Forum, held in April 2000, to build a global partnership for girls' education. Vanuatu will be pleased to be part of this global initiative. At the same time, Vanuatu fully supports the view that involving women as central players in development provides benefits in the areas of nutrition, health, and savings and reinvestment at the family, community, and, ultimately, national level. Nevertheless, the challenge of ensuring education for all at all levels is an ambitious objective that will require external assistance. The education and training of the population, including women, must therefore be an important goal of the Assembly. One of the great obstacles to our economic development, including our foreign investment portfolio, has always been the relatively high cost of public utilities, in particular the energy sector, which is largely dependent on traditional oil-based systems. The cost of importing oil products and petroleum-derived gas is currently about 90 per cent of our combined domestic exports. Our economy cannot afford this trend in the long run. We believe that with access to the new and relevant technology available in the developed countries today, the Republic of Vanuatu and other small island nations can develop integrated renewable energy systems and hydrogen fuels if our potential wind- and sun-related and geothermal and hydroelectricity resources can be fully utilized. Access to financial and technical resources from the developed countries can assist countries like the Republic of Vanuatu in moving in the right direction and thereby positively contribute to our common objective of creating a healthier and more environment- friendly economic development. The emergence of new information technology today underlines the strong linkage between the concepts of knowledge and power. While communications and business transactions through the Internet and other modern electronic means have now become routine within the circles of the rich and the powerful, the large majority of the world's population, which lives in the poor developing countries, has very little or no knowledge about — let alone any access to — this new and revolutionary way of doing day-to- day business. In this new millennium, the new information technology must be made accessible and affordable to the people living in the most remote areas of the developing nations in order to facilitate their access to better education, better health services and give them greater access to world markets and business opportunities. This is a great challenge, but one that we must face together, and proudly. That is why we have the United Nations. Last month the national Parliament of Vanuatu passed two laws in this area — the Electronic Transactions Act and the E-Business Act. We hope that, through the support of relevant United Nations agencies and bilateral development partners, we will be able to fully implement these new laws for the benefit of our small island nation and its people, in particular in the rural and remote areas. In his statement to the Millennium Summit, my Prime Minister highlighted the need for the industrialized countries immediately to ratify international treaties on the protection and sustainable management of our natural environment and resources, which are vital to the very survival of millions of citizens of small island States. Environmental degradation poses a serious threat to the small island States, which are threatened by the rising sea level. We continue to urge countries to adopt and ratify the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible. As a signatory to the Framework Convention on Climate Change, Vanuatu is in the process of adding its signature to the Protocol. We cannot let this opportunity pass without expressing our serious concern about the great difficulties a least developed country such as the Republic of Vanuatu is facing with regard to its application to join the World Trade Organization (WTO), because some powerful countries, in particular the United States of America, refuse to recognize our constant call for special consideration. Vanuatu has been in the complex process of accession for five and a half years. The negotiations we were engaged in until 27 last October with a number of major bilateral and multilateral players, such as the European Union, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Switzerland, have been completed in a spirit of understanding and appreciation of Vanuatu's circumstances. The United States continues to place heavy and unreasonable demands on us, which we cannot accept. We consider those demands absurd, because the United States is among our least significant trading partners. We believe that Vanuatu has become the innocent victim of global trade disputes between the big players. While we have always supported the principle of free international trade, we expect the new regime to be more realistic and more flexible, to allow ample time for the small and least developed countries to adjust to the new rules. After all, the WTO cannot be considered as a truly global trade regime without the adhesion of all independent countries, including small island States. It is no secret, as the Vanuatu Prime Minister clearly stated at the recent G-77 Summit in Havana, that the conditions being imposed on us for joining the WTO are simply beyond our capacity to consider in the short to medium term. Unless the powerful countries review their positions and conditions with regard to our application, then the Republic of Vanuatu will have no other choice but to reconsider its original application to join the WTO. On a related issue, we would also like to take this opportunity to register our most sincere recognition to all the Governments in the Pacific and other regions for their consistent support for Vanuatu's status as a least developed country. We continue to maintain our strong belief that the United Nations criteria for assessing least developed country status must be fully reviewed and must take into account new indices, such as the Environmental Vulnerability Index, and the long-term impacts of such natural disasters as cyclones, tsunamis and others on countries' social and economic advancement. Enhancing the role of the peacekeeping forces of the United Nations must also be a priority for this Assembly. It is in this spirit that Vanuatu commends the Brahimi report on peacekeeping, believing that, once implemented, it will allow the United Nations to carry out its peacekeeping operations effectively. At this juncture, I am proud to say that, in spite of our meagre resources, Vanuatu is participating, for the first time in its 20-year history as an independent nation, in United Nations peacekeeping missions in East Timor and Bosnia. Prior to this attainment, Vanuatu also served in some regional peace-monitoring missions. In his statement to the Millennium Summit, the Prime Minister of Vanuatu touched on an important issue: the principle of self-determination and the related question of West Papua. The case of West Papua has always been high on Vanuatu's agenda. In 1984, the late Prime Minister and father of our independence, Walter Hadye Lini, said: “We may not have the resources to support their struggle, but we can remember them in our everyday prayers. For when we talk about their struggle, we must always use the name that was very dear to them: West Papua.” The United Nations must be consistent in its decisions concerning the recognition and respect of the fundamental right to self-determination of the people of West Papua. The truth surrounding the so-called act of free choice must be exposed to the Melanesian sisters and brothers of West Papua and to the rest of the international community. Saddest of all was General Assembly resolution 2504 (XXIV) of 1969 on West Papua. How can the United Nations continue to ignore the cries of over 3 million people demanding justice? This year marks the end of the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism. It is only appropriate that the United Nations should reconsider and revisit the decisions taken at that time. Following the tragedy in East Timor, Vanuatu believes that it is not too late for the international community to act to halt a similar tragedy in West Papua. In this context, Vanuatu would like to strongly request that the issue of West Papua be placed for discussion on the agenda of the Committee of 24. Any move to oppose this will most certainly undermine the credibility of the United Nations and its decisions on this special case. Over the past few decades, the United Nations has positively contributed to the process of decolonization. We must not allow this opportunity to pass. On the question of reform, we agree that any reforms should include the Security Council in order to make it more democratic and transparent. The membership of the Security Council should be enlarged not only to enhance geographic representation, but also in response to the aspirations felt at all levels of the 28 world community and to the voice of the least developed countries and small island States. Vanuatu would like to congratulate all those countries that recognize the need for a proper evaluation and assessment of the crisis situations in Fiji and the Solomon Islands prior to taking punitive measures, if any. We in the Republic of Vanuatu believe that traditional economic and other forms of sanctions against individual countries in times of crisis should be fully reviewed in this new millennium. In this respect, the delegation of Vanuatu would like to express its sincere appreciation to Sir John Kaputin, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Papua New Guinea, who so ably led the Pacific ministerial mission of the African-Caribbean-Pacific Group of States to Fiji and the Solomon Islands in order to carefully assess the situation in the two countries. The mission was also comprised of the Foreign Minister of the Cook Islands, Mr. Robert Woonton; the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Vanuatu; and the Minister of Education of Samoa, Ms. Fiame Naomi Mata'afa. I would also like to take this opportunity to commend Mr. Laisenia Qarase, Prime Minister and Minister for National Reconciliation and Unity in the Interim Administration of the Republic of the Fiji Islands, for his eloquent statement on the situation in Fiji. We would also like to extend our appreciation to Mr. Danny Philip, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Solomon Islands, for his comprehensive statement. We have made visionary statements. Now is the time for us to translate these into action. We have called for a more efficient, responsive and effective United Nations. We must muster the good will to resolutely implement the Millennium Declaration and to rededicate ourselves to upholding the fundamental principles of the United Nations. Let us not lose sight of these goals.  I have the honour of speaking this year on behalf of the European Union, which France is presiding over until the end of December. In this capacity, it is a great pleasure for me to congratulate the President on his election. It symbolizes the respect the international community has both for his country and for himself. I would also like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his skill in guiding the proceedings of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly, Mr. Sam Nujoma and Ms. Tarja Halonen for their work with you, Mr. President, as Co-Chairpersons of the Millennium Summit. 19 I would like to commend the Secretary-General of the Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan. His international action, his independence and his vision have made a decisive contribution to asserting the key role the United Nations plays and must continue to play. The European Union wishes to assure him of its support for his work and for the Organization and its representatives. The Millennium Summit, an unprecedented gathering of 155 heads of State and Government, allowed us to address the main challenges facing the world community and the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century, which will begin on 1 January 2001. The Union notes with great satisfaction that the Summit produced a political document setting forth a road-map for the Organization for the years to come. These guidelines are based on ideas outlined in the Secretary-General's report. It is now up to the General Assembly to implement them. The Union will contribute actively to this. Peacekeeping, strengthening international security and defending human rights are the central principles underpinning the European Union's foreign policy. Recent crises on Europe's very doorstep have convinced us that we cannot remain idle when these fundamental principles are violated. In this regard, the European Union approves of the priority given to peacekeeping during last week's meetings. Mr. Brahimi's report offers an in-depth analysis on this subject. It presents useful recommendations for the mandates of peacekeeping operations, operational planning in New York and deployment. It presents a unique opportunity to strengthen the United Nations capacity for peace operations. The European Union will actively participate in considering these recommendations. The Union has decided to equip itself to be a major political actor and to play its full role on the international stage. To this end, and within a very short time-frame, it has undertaken decisive measures. New decision-making, action-oriented political and military bodies have been set up: a political and security committee, a military committee, a European Union military staff, a situation centre and a committee for civilian crisis management. These bodies will enable the European Union to intervene quickly and credibly in the management of international crises. The European Union has also announced its intention to establish by 2003 a force of 60,000 troops for international missions involving the whole range of conflict-prevention and crisis-management operations, with the requisite air and naval support for deployment within 60 days for a period of at least one year. This autumn there will be a conference for the commitment of capability at which each Member State shall pledge its contribution to this joint endeavour. The Union has also set ambitious and realistic targets for developing collective capabilities. In addition to its military resources, it will develop civilian intervention capabilities, including a corps of civilian police, whose contribution to peacekeeping is invaluable. In this connection, Member States have set themselves the goal of being able, by 2003, to provide up to 5,000 police officers, 1,000 of whom will be deployment-ready within 30 days. These decisions now enable the European Union to complement its already sizeable economic and humanitarian programmes with the full range of resources required for crisis management. Of course, these activities are designed in full respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter. Now more than ever, it is vital to establish working ties with the United Nations. To initiate this cooperation, the European Union troika will discuss this issue for the first time with the Secretary-General. On behalf of the European Union, I hereby invite Mr. Kofi Annan to go to Brussels for a working meeting with the organs of the Union. The European Union hails the considerable efforts and determination shown by the President of the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Prime Minister during recent negotiations to reach a final agreement between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples. We welcome in particular the renewed vigour with which very sensitive issues have been addressed at this time. We commend President Clinton and the Secretary of State for their unflagging efforts to facilitate negotiations. Circumstances favourable to reconciling positions continue to exist. We urge the parties to seize this historic opportunity, show courage in decisive choices, take fully into account human realities and the recognized rights of all, and thereby achieve a final agreement. The European Union welcomes Israel's withdrawal from the zone it occupied in southern 20 Lebanon. It welcomes the redeployment of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and the presence of a joint security force, sent to the area by the Lebanese Government. It urges all parties to fulfil their responsibilities in order to defuse tensions. The European Union believes that only a comprehensive settlement encompassing every track of the peace process, including the Israeli-Syrian track, is likely to guarantee lasting stability in the region. It will continue to support the efforts of the parties to this end and contribute to the implementation of any agreements that may be reached. Turning to Europe, the situation in the western Balkans is a matter of serious concern to the entire international community. Ten years of conflict have ravaged the region, leading to severe human suffering and to politically unstable and therefore dangerous situations. But beyond accumulated hardships and the lagging economic and social development of many of those countries, all of the peoples and nearly all of the leaders of the region have realized that it does have a future, and that future is Europe. Today, all Europeans now share the belief that these countries are bound one day to join the European Union. This is why the European Council has reiterated that its goal is to firmly attach the countries of the region to Europe. This means the greatest possible integration into the political, economic and social currents of Europe through the stabilization and association process, political dialogue, trade liberalization, the harmonization of their laws with those of the European Union, and cooperation in justice and domestic affairs. The assistance provided by the European Union to countries of the region over the last 10 years — nearly 8 billion euros — is considerable. The European Union will continue to sustain this stabilization and association process by providing the western Balkan countries with massive technical, economic and financial assistance and by granting them asymmetrical trade advantages in farming and industry very soon, which will pave the way for the creation of a free trade zone with the European Union. In the context of elections concerning almost the entire region, we will encourage them to develop regional cooperation and to continue to make determined efforts for political, economic and social reform in order to consolidate democracy and human rights, to build the rule of law and lay the groundwork for sustainable development. In this context, the European Union has reaffirmed its determination to continue to be the driving force in the Stability Pact for South-eastern Europe, which represents a new vision of cooperation between the countries of the region and the international community. The summit to be held shortly in Croatia of the European Union and the Western Balkan countries — on the basis of a French proposal — will signal our common resolve to overcome the divisions of the past. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will not be able to participate in the conference, as the nature of its present regime does not allow it to do so. But the Serbs know that they have their place in the European family and that the European Union is looking forward to the day when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is in a position to participate fully in the stabilization and association process and to recover its rightful place in Europe. The elections to be held on 24 September could be decisive in this respect. In Kosovo the international community, acting on the basis of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), has achieved praiseworthy results. Thanks must be given to all those who have made this possible in spite of enormous difficulties, especially the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, the United Nations staff and the Kosovo Force soldiers, the many international organizations there on the ground and the non-governmental organizations. The first democratic municipal elections in Kosovo, to be held in a few weeks' time, will constitute a major step in the implementation of resolution 1244 (1999). I would forcefully reiterate that the international community will not allow unacceptable acts of violence, whatever their motivation, to cause the democratic electoral process under way to fail. We will not let extremists from whatever faction sabotage the work accomplished over the past year under the auspices of the United Nations. The European Union considers the status quo in Cyprus unacceptable, and it supports the efforts of the Secretary-General to reach a negotiated, comprehensive, fair and lasting settlement consistent with relevant Security Council resolutions. It reiterates its commitment to stability and prosperity throughout the Mediterranean region. With talks beginning right here under the auspices of the Secretary-General, it 21 invites the parties concerned to enter into substantive talks. The European Union is equally determined in its support for efforts to prevent and settle conflicts in Africa, in close cooperation with the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and other subregional organizations and in accordance with the objectives agreed at the Africa-Europe Summit, held last April in Cairo under the Portuguese presidency of the European Union. It will lend its backing to the measures taken jointly by the OAU and the United Nations to implement the peace settlement between Ethiopia and Eritrea. In supporting the deployment of international observers, the European Union is also willing to lend its support to the establishment and demarcation of borders, to demining and to assistance to refugees and displaced persons. It is endeavouring to provide assistance to the war-stricken populations of both countries, whose immense suffering has been compounded by drought. The European Union is deeply concerned by the developments in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It calls on all parties to the Lusaka Agreement to implement their commitments, including those made at Kampala. This will allow for progress with respect to the military and political provisions, all of which are under threat due to the continued fighting and the deadlock in preparing for a national dialogue. It also urges them to abide by the relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular resolution 1304 (2000), which calls for an orderly withdrawal of foreign forces from Congolese territory and for the cooperation of all parties in the deployment of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) through the lifting of restrictions on the freedom of movement of MONUC personnel and by ensuring their security. The illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a violation of the country's sovereignty, is also unacceptable. The European Union therefore commends the establishment by the Secretary-General on 15 August last of a group of experts in charge of analysing ties between the illegal exploitation of those riches and the continuation of the conflict. We are pleased to note greater awareness about the illicit trade in diamonds and other minerals, which directly fuels conflicts. This is the case in particular with the illicit trade in diamonds in Angola, whereby UNITA has been funding its war effort. We underscore the importance of complying with Security Council resolutions on this matter. We welcome the decision to place this important question on the General Assembly's agenda. The discussion should be based on the Kimberley process. It should reflect the work of the preparatory conference co-chaired by the United Kingdom and Russia. Lastly, it should examine the proposal made at Miyazaki to establish a standing group of independent experts to formulate ways of preventing illicit trade. The European Union reiterates its support for resolution 1306 (2000) on Sierra Leone, which tightened existing arms sanctions and established an embargo on raw diamonds illegally exported from Sierra Leone. The European Union calls on all the parties to the conflict to comply with the principles and objectives of the Lomé Agreement and to be fully involved in the re-establishment of peace and stability and compliance with human rights in Sierra Leone. The European Union and its member States will continue to contribute to African capacity and means of action in conflict prevention and resolution, in particular through support for the OAU and subregional organizations and initiatives. The European Union is deeply concerned at the situation in Myanmar. It asks the Myanmar authorities to immediately restore Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's freedom of speech, movement and communication with the outside. It is urgent for dialogue to begin between the Myanmar authorities and the democratic opposition, including the National League for Democracy and national minorities. The Union supports the Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Burma, Mr. Razali, in his efforts to find a solution. The European Union expresses its solidarity with the people of East Timor and commends the work done by the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) in close cooperation with the political authorities of East Timor. It is in favour of accelerating reconstruction assistance in order to guarantee a successful transition and avoid any delay in the timetable leading to independence. We are extremely concerned by the instability caused by the militias in both East and West Timor. The new outbreaks of violence by them have taken the lives of two “blue beret” peacekeepers and, more 22 recently, of three personnel of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The European Union calls on the Indonesian authorities to adopt effective measures to control the militias without delay. The European Union also calls for the termination of terrorist activity in Kashmir, the implementation of confidence- and security-building measures and strict respect for the line of control in order to restore a peaceful local climate and enable the dialogue between Pakistan and India to resume in the spirit of the Lahore Declaration. The European Union will be looking closely for such signs from the parties involved and will encourage initiatives likely to resolve all the disputes between the two countries. It is important for the specific measures laid down in Security Council resolution 1172 (1998) to be implemented and for Pakistan and India to subscribe to the international non-proliferation regime and sign the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Having advocated direct dialogue between the two Koreas for many years, the European Union welcomes the historic inter-Korean Summit that took place in Pyongyang from 13-15 June this year. This is an important step on the road to reconciliation between the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, opening bright prospects for strengthening the stability of the region. We invite the two countries, who have been members of the United Nations since 1991, to continue this process in order to help the Korean people heal the wounds of the past. On the subject of Haiti, the European Union recalls that full respect for the constitutional provisions concerning the elections and electoral legislation currently in force is the basis of democracy and the rule of law. The threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems is a crucial issue that the European Union — which shares the concern for international peace and security that ought to inspire the nations represented here — is resolved to combat relentlessly. To this end, international cooperation must be stressed, along with the development of multilateral standards for non- proliferation, arms control and disarmament. This is particularly true of chemical and biological weapons, which have now been banned. The Union is working towards the early conclusion of a protocol containing reliable and effective verification measures to strengthen the 1972 Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction. We are equally determined to ensure nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament, where so much progress has been made since the signing of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), to which 187 States are now parties. Since the end of the cold war, effective instruments for ending the arms race and achieving disarmament have begun to see the light of day, with the halt to testing, the treaty enshrining it, the first two START agreements to reduce the largest nuclear arsenals and a host of unilateral decisions following the same trend. Our priority must be to consolidate this mechanism. A start was made with the Review Conferences of 1995 and 2000; the results, which we welcome, must be fully implemented. We must give full weight to strengthening the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) through the widespread implementation of the measures contained in the 1997 Model Protocol and to remain alert to the issue of NPT compliance. We must also revive the momentum of the multilateral negotiations. The entry into force of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, the completion of the operational readiness of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO) and the negotiation at the Disarmament Conference of a fissile material cut-off treaty are all necessary steps that are of concern and ought to mobilize all States, be they parties to the NPT or not. The start of this negotiation implies urgent negotiations on a working programme in the Conference on Disarmament. International standards in this field can only be effective if they are universal. Arsenal reductions, which are the prime responsibility of the nuclear-weapon States, must also be continued. This will enable us to move closer to our common objectives — namely, the elimination of nuclear weapons and general, comprehensive disarmament under strict and effective international control. The issue of small arms and light weapons is just as sensitive in many regions of the world. It deserves special attention. The 15 European Union members 23 will contribute to the preparation of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, which will take place during the summer of 2001, with the objective of obtaining a positive and enforceable plan of action to combat the destabilizing accumulation and spread of small arms and light weapons. At the same time, the Union shall continue its drive for the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on their Destruction. It will join in the efforts to achieve the total elimination of anti- personnel mines. On the very important subject of human rights, the European Union will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations to reach the goal set by the Secretary-General to put human rights at the heart of every aspect of its work. The best guarantee of solid progress in this area is each person's awareness of the importance of human rights and democracy and the emergence of groups who actively promote them in every country. In this connection, the European Union welcomes the designation, thanks to the support of many countries, of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Human Rights Defenders, Ms. Jilani; we welcome her appointment and assure her of our full backing as she undertakes her duties. This year the United Nations has once again demonstrated that it is the main forum of progress in setting standards for human rights, as witnessed by the adoption of two optional protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sexual exploitation of children and on children in armed conflicts. This represents a major step forward in favour of the protection of children. The European Union intends to contribute actively to the special session of the United Nations General Assembly for the follow-up to the World Children's Summit, to be held next year, which will give the international community yet another opportunity to help this cause move forward. Another important task, the World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, lies ahead. At the European Preparatory Conference, to be held in October under the auspices of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, the European Union will demonstrate its commitment to combat all expressions of racism, whatever form they take. The Union, all of whose members have abolished the death penalty, calls on States that have not yet done so to adopt a moratorium as a first step towards the eventual abolition of this punishment, which is contrary to human dignity. The European Union will endeavour to strengthen international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and will play an active role in the negotiations to be held to that end. It earnestly hopes that this General Assembly will adopt the Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime and its Protocols at the Palermo Conference next December. Given that such crime, that one of its most odious manifestations is the trafficking in human beings, and that it poses an ever- growing threat to our societies, it is vital for the international community to develop the means to cooperate and fight against it effectively. Lastly, the European Union looks forward to the early establishment of the International Criminal Court. I would like to recall that ratification by 42 States is still needed for this. By way of conclusion, I would like to stress one last point, and that is sustainable development. The European Union's contribution to international cooperation is substantial. With 30 per cent of the global gross domestic product, the Union contributes 36 per cent of the United Nations regular budget and 39 per cent of the peacekeeping budget. As you know, it also contributes the rather large amount of around 55 per cent of the world total of official development assistance. We are pleased with everything that was said last week on this extremely important matter, and we will continue our exemplary work on sustainable development. Indeed, we believe that development is one of the key ways of resolving all of the problems facing us throughout the world, as outlined in my statement, and the European Union wishes to express its strong, continuing commitment to that end.Mr. President, on behalf of the delegation of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi and the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Swaziland, may I extend hearty congratulations to Mr. Harri Holkeri of the Republic of Finland on his election as President of this fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I also wish to pay my country's rich tribute to Mr. Holkeri's predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, for his exemplary stewardship of the last session of the General Assembly. The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to develop quietly and peacefully, according to the wishes of our people. Against a backdrop of difficult economic circumstances, we have declared the year 2000 our Year of Delivery in a number of key economic, social and political areas. In the coming weeks, the Commission that is reviewing the national Constitution will complete its work, and we look forward to receiving its report. Those recommendations will be the result of an extensive and all-inclusive process of consultations and will reflect precisely the wishes of the entire Swazi nation. We believe this national exercise will further enhance the unity of the Swazi people and provide the best possible foundation for our continuing peace and stability. On the economic front, we continue to make every effort to achieve sustainable growth and to reduce the level of poverty among our people. In addition to encouraging both local and foreign investment, the Government this year launched an ambitious programme of initiatives called the Millennium Project, targeting the tourism and manufacturing industry subsectors. This project is designed to maximize the potential of the Kingdom in these areas and to reduce the current unacceptably high level of unemployment, which is threatening to undermine all our best efforts at development. Among the many challenges we face as a developing nation, there is no question that the HIV/AIDS crisis presents the most serious threat to our hopes of improving the lives of our people. In the last years of the twentieth century, much of the progress we have achieved in 32 years of independence in social welfare is being reversed by the rapid spread of this most terrible disease. HIV/AIDS represents the single most important issue facing our nation today, and we desperately need the support of the international community in our efforts to contain the threat to our very existence as a nation. We look to the United Nations to take a much stronger leadership role in this global crisis, and to help us to mobilize resources to reverse the catastrophic spread of the pandemic. During the Millennium Summit, the Kingdom of Swaziland joined other developing countries in expressing concern at the negative effects of globalization on our economies, especially in the context of the widening gap between the rich and the poor countries. We are, however, reassured by Summit's agreement to take measures to ensure that global trends such as globalization should have at their heart the principle of equitable benefit for all nations, regardless of size, level of development or economic strength. Thus, in recent years, we have waited with great expectation to benefit from initiatives, particularly in the area of preferential trade access, that have been broadcast by our international friends and partners as measures that are designed to help the developing world to overcome the negative effects of globalization. My delegation is optimistic, therefore, that the recently concluded Millennium Summit will indeed serve as an historic occasion of strengthening international peace and security, as well as the prosperity of our people, in order to establish a fair international order. Beginning with this session, what remains for all of us now is to see to it that the wishes of the founding fathers of the United Nations are fulfilled. Those wishes, ambitious as they may be, are not unreachable and can be achieved. This session, therefore, has the task of setting the pace for the dialogue that lies ahead. Both the Millennium Summit and this session of the General Assembly will have a 34 direct impact on the success of the United Nations in achieving the goals set by those great visionary leaders. Since the last session of the General Assembly, the Organization has held several global conferences. However, the implementation of commitments in some cases is regrettably slow. One of the priorities for the United Nations should be an effective, integrated and coordinated implementation and follow-up of all these conferences. The implementation should be further enhanced within the existing machinery of the United Nations through improving its functions. Peace-building is a prevention task of growing importance. With the disaster that befell the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL), the United Nations is facing one of the most comprehensive tasks in its history, which perhaps has made the need to review peacekeeping operations more imperative. We remain concerned about the serious negative impact of the proliferation of conflicts in the world, particularly in Africa, on development capacity and on progress towards economic, social and political transformation. The situation in those countries affected by conflicts is appalling and deserves the Organization's urgent attention. In Africa, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, Sierra Leone and Angola, among others, have been the scene of terrible turmoil, mass murders, destruction of property and much suffering on the part of refugees over the years. The Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) have done much to contain and resolve some of these conflicts; and the United Nations has also rendered its support. While some progress has been made in resolving some of these conflicts, much still needs to be done, especially by the parties involved. The latter have a responsibility to observe agreements concluded and must work closely together with the United Nations and the regional organizations involved so that peace processes can be brought to a successful conclusion. With regard to the Middle East, we are encouraged by the continued efforts by President Clinton and other leaders to bring both Israel and Palestine to the negotiating table. We are hopeful that a long-lasting solution, which has eluded the region for so long, will be found soon. There is now more than ever a pressing need to finally carry out the long overdue substantial reform of the Security Council. The Council must fully recognize the new realities of the global landscape. It must have a more representative composition, and above all, it must be equipped to react to the crises and conflicts of today. Reform must involve enlargement to include both more permanent and non-permanent members, as well as strengthening its decision-making powers. The Kingdom of Swaziland unreservedly supports both the Non-Aligned Movement and the African Group positions in as far as the review of the composition and working methods of the Security Council is concerned. We do trust that the ongoing debate in the working group set up for this purpose will continue and that it will yield the much-expected results. The stage which the negotiations have now reached is such that it requires the commitment of all Member States if indeed the Security Council is to be equipped with all the tools it needs to be equitably representative. Participation of the United Nations membership at large in the decision-making process, transparency in its work and imposition of Charter restraints on the veto, with the aim of its eventual abolition, are indispensable imperatives. The enhancement of the relevance of the United Nations requires, first and foremost, strengthening the role and increasing the efficiency of the General Assembly through focusing its deliberations on contemporary challenges and problems facing the world, engaging it in timely and effective decision- making to address global economic and political issues and enabling it to seriously examine and effectively react to the work of the other organs of the United Nations, particularly the Security Council. In this context, we believe that the General Assembly, as the sole democratic universal and transparent organ, is the proper forum to carry out an in-depth analysis of the implications of the emerging debates on collective action. The Kingdom of Swaziland joins others in welcoming the Republic of Tuvalu as a new member of the Organization. The addition of Tuvalu brings closer to fruition the hope of the founding fathers to see a United Nations comprised of all the countries of the world. The United Nations is the only body that deals with all fields of human activity. It has been a catalyst of many initiatives that have improved the lives of peoples across the world. 35 In the same spirit of universality in which we welcome Tuvalu, the Kingdom of Swaziland wishes to reiterate its appeal to the United Nations regarding the question of the Republic of China on Taiwan. The Kingdom of Swaziland has in the past been in the forefront arguing in favour of the readmission of the Republic of China on Taiwan, and our position remains unchanged. The case for including the Republic of China on Taiwan in the activities of the United Nations and its associated agencies takes on even greater relevance in the light of the peaceful transition of Government following the successful expression of the wishes of the people of Taiwan in the elections earlier this year. Those 23 million people rightly consider it unacceptable that they are not represented in the one Organization that should be truly global, and that they deserve a review of the special circumstances surrounding their bid. The Republic of China on Taiwan has shown time and again its willingness to participate in efforts to bring about true global peace, development and stability, and we believe that the rest of the world is poorer for being denied their involvement. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that this new millennium provides the perfect opportunity to raise this issue and to restore the right of the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan to participate fully in the activities of our Organization. There is no alternative to the United Nations. Its objectives and values are universal. We must spare no effort in seeing to it that the United Nations continues to meet the current and evolving needs of its entire membership. It must become the core instrument of effective and fair global governance, if it is to be completely transformed to be what its founding fathers had envisaged.   Permit me, at the outset, to extend to you, Mr. President, my congratulations on your election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Let me also pay a tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, who guided the work of the previous session of the General Assembly most successfully. This session acquires special importance, not only because it is the first of the new millennium, but also because it coincides with the convening of the Millennium Summit, which gathered together, for the first time, a majority of the world's leaders. Therefore, the historic instruments that emerged from the Summit were a culmination of that momentous occasion. The Republic of Yemen, as President Ali Abdullah Saleh emphasized in his statement at the Millennium Summit, is committed to achieving those ideals and objectives, supporting the leadership role of the United Nations and promoting the purposes of its Charter, with a view to upholding the principles of freedom, equality and justice, so that every society can assume its national responsibilities for comprehensive and sustainable development, including poverty eradication, the provision of food, shelter, health care and education, ensuring fundamental freedoms, human rights and democracy and enabling women to play their role in society. Accordingly, the Republic of Yemen supports efforts by the Secretary-General to develop the role, mechanisms and organs of the international Organization to meet the challenges of twenty-first century. It also supports moves towards the renewal and development of inter-State relations and towards bringing them into line with new global phenomena that call for democracy, respect for human rights and the transformation of globalization into a positive force that will benefit all inhabitants of the world. In this connection, the Republic of Yemen reaffirms its invitation to host the Fifth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies, to be held in 2003. Our world has become a single village where events interact globally with no room for isolationism. The merging of States' economies is the most prominent feature of mutual dependency and, consequently, of shared responsibility aimed at creating an environment at the national and global levels conducive to development and poverty eradication. Good governance, as stated in the United Nations Millennium Declaration, must exist not only within each country but at the international level and be based on laws and transparency in financial, monetary and trading systems. 2 In our view, this requires that the developed industrialized countries fulfil their commitments to provide official development assistance to developing countries, address the special needs of the least developed countries, provide debt relief to poor countries and agree to cancel all official bilateral debts. Within this context we would also include the removal of all barriers against the exports of developing countries seeking access to world markets. This year our people celebrated the tenth anniversary of the restoration of blessed Yemeni unity. The Republic of Yemen has been able to achieve successes in the democratic process, freedom, justice, respect for human rights and the enablement of women to play their role in society. While our people proceed to incorporate new concepts, with the aim of adapting to new world developments, they suffer from the financial burdens and the assumption of tasks inherent in comprehensive economic and social reform. In addition, the processes relating to economic liberalization — lifting subsidies on various foods and fuel and reducing public services, as prescribed by international financing institutions — have created social tensions. We therefore call upon the advanced industrialized countries to understand this underlying reality of shared responsibility in the context of comprehensive and sustainable development in the developing countries as a guarantee for international development, security and stability. The Republic of Yemen has persevered in advocating attainment of peace and stability at the regional and the international levels by the surest ways, namely by resolving all disputes peacefully and through the use of mechanisms for the resolution of disputes, which embodies faith in the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We in the Republic of Yemen are proud to have placed practical reliance on those principles in resolving border issues with three neighbouring States: the Sultanate of Oman, Eritrea and, recently, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. A new era of brotherhood, cooperation and mutual interests between the Republic of Yemen and the fraternal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was inaugurated on 12 June 2000, following the signature of a treaty between the two countries on international territorial and maritime boundaries. We deem it an historic achievement by all criteria, since it ends a long period of tension and instability. The frontiers between the countries have become bridges of love, brotherhood and cooperation. This will, unquestionably, contribute to general stability in the region. Within this framework one may understand Yemen's strong desire and long-term efforts to contribute to a resolution of the problems that have plagued Somalia. Now that the Arta conference has been held, the Transitional National Assembly has been constituted and the country's President has been elected, we support the implementation of the resolutions that emerged from the conference. We hope that the consensus between the representatives of the various Somali factions present at the conference will lead to stability and prepare the way for the commencement of a process of comprehensive and sustainable development in an atmosphere of national reconciliation. In this regard, we must commend the great efforts made by President Ismail Omar Guelleh of the Republic of Djibouti to ensure the success of the Arta conference. The return to normalcy in Somalia will unquestionably promote security and stability in the Horn of Africa, which has suffered the scourge of war and its effects. That suffering can be seen in the cross- border flows of refugees. In the case of Yemen, hundreds of thousands of refugees from Somalia and other States of the region have infiltrated the country via our coasts. We appeal to the international community to extend assistance to resolve the problem of refugees and ensure their return to their homelands for the sake of stability and reconstruction in the region. The Republic of Yemen believes that the peace that people seek is a peace based on justice, equality and respect for human rights. Accordingly, peace in the Middle East should be based primarily on the restoration of all the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people. Foremost among those rights is the establishment of an independent Palestinian State on Palestinian soil with Jerusalem as its capital. Israel must also withdraw from all occupied Arab territories in the Syrian Golan. We would also like to convey our esteem and congratulations to fraternal Lebanon and its people on the unconditional liberation of its southern part. The world is still amassing large quantities of weapons of mass destruction. Those weapons endanger international security and stability and hinder any steps 3 towards finding solutions to development problems. In accordance with relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, we in the Republic of Yemen stress the importance of making the Middle East region an area free from nuclear weapons and all weapons of mass destruction. We also endorse the international community's call to exert pressure on Israel to adhere to the Non-Proliferation Treaty and to place all its nuclear installations under international supervision. Iraq is experiencing a human tragedy as a result of the embargo that has been imposed on it for 10 years. While calling for the implementation of United Nations resolutions concerning Iraq, we stress from this rostrum the need to end that tragic situation by lifting the embargo. It has lasted too long and has caused very extensive damage to the entire Iraqi population, especially women, children and elderly persons. In the same vein, we call for a complete lifting of the embargoes imposed on the Sudan and Libya. With regard to the dispute over the three Arabian Gulf islands belonging to the United Arab Emirates, Yemen hopes that an amicable and peaceful solution to that issue will be decided along the lines followed by the Republic of Yemen in the resolution of its border disputes with its neighbours. Lastly, we welcome all the resolutions calling for the reform of the United Nations and its structure so as to make it more transparent and democratic, including resolutions concerning the expansion of the membership of the Security Council and enhancing and strengthening the role of the General Assembly in the maintenance of international peace and security. It is our hope that resolutions will be adopted at this important session to contribute to the reform and restructuring of the United Nations and its organs in order that it may meet the requirements of the new century, with its increasing problems and ever more complex inter-State relations. It is our responsibility to make this session an occasion to review our work and to examine the resolutions adopted by our leaders at the Millennium Summit so that we can transform them into tangible reality. Doing so will further our progress towards achieving security, stability, development and prosperity for our countries and peoples. I am confident that our united stance and sincere endeavours will guarantee the success of this session and the achievement of the desired results.    Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to join preceding speakers in offering you the Pakistan delegation's warm felicitations on your election. We pledge to you our wholehearted cooperation in your efforts dedicated to the success of this historic fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the leadership of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. His commitment and dynamism have reinforced the rightful role of the United Nations in addressing the challenges of our times. The millennial transition is unique in the lives of those fortunate to witness it. We are fortunate, too, that we start this session in the glow of the Millennium Summit. We shall be inspired in our work by the ringing commitment of our leaders to values and principles fundamental to the maintenance of peace and security; by the resolve of our leaders to free peoples from the scourge of war, on the one hand, and to free humanity from dehumanizing poverty, on the other. Their determination to protect the environment, promote human rights, democracy and good governance, and to meet the special needs of Africa, will be our guide and mandate in our deliberations. It will be our duty at this and future sessions of the General Assembly, to translate the Millennium 13 Declaration into action. This is no doubt a difficult challenge. But it is a challenge we must meet. Only thus can we contribute to the building of a future better than the past. To all these ends — at once necessary as well as noble — our leaders pledged to spare no efforts to make the United Nations a more effective instrument of international cooperation. What is needed, if I may borrow an apt phrase from the Secretary General's report, is a stronger commitment to action — action to achieve peace, and action to achieve development. Each of our States can and must take action on both fronts. But individual efforts cannot achieve optimum results. All of us need to work with dedication and a strong sense of commitment in a cooperative and harmonious environment to promote the twin objectives for a better future. The Millennium Declaration emphasizes the determination of world leaders to save peoples from the scourge of war. Also the Secretary General's report highlights peace and security as: “a central objective of the United Nations at the dawn of the twenty-first century, as it was when the Organization was founded over half a century ago”. (A/55/1, para. 29) The problem is how to prevent war and achieve peace. The solution is not difficult to find. What is needed is a stronger commitment to action. Given that commitment, crises and conflicts can be prevented and peace can be achieved. Peace not merely possible; it is realizable through a civilized approach to conflict resolution based on justice and international law and the principles of the Charter, the United Nations can ensure effective remedial action to maintain peace and security. People watched with relief as the world community joined together to prevent genocide in Bosnia and Kosovo. With the commendable cooperation of the Government of Indonesia and the imaginative contribution of the Secretary-General, we approached the situation in East Timor in a similar way. The imaginative and diligent efforts of the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General, Ambassador Jamsheed Marker, to promote the settlement in East Timor are a matter of pride for the people of Pakistan. These are all examples of how the United Nations and the international community can and should act to address conflicts by implementing its principles and decisions. In the Middle East, too, the peace process has made steady, if agonizingly slow, progress. For the gains so far made, tribute is due to the idealistic efforts of the peacemakers and the realistic approach of the Palestinian and Israeli leaders. The residual issues are difficult and delicate, involving as they do principles of law and equity on the one hand, and deep emotions on the other. Yet we ardently hope that the peace process will succeed soon. Final settlement of the Palestinian question will be a crowning achievement and a momentous contribution to peace in the Middle East. Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1977) are imbued with an irreplaceable international sanctity. Their implementation involves the prestige and credibility of the United Nations. An end to occupation and the reversion of holy Jerusalem to Palestinian sovereignty will ensure reconciliation and durable peace in the Middle East. The Kashmir question, involving the life and future of the people of the State, has been the root cause of tensions in South Asia since 1947. Its settlement is an indispensable condition for peace and stability. The ten million people of that State will not be denied their right to freedom. They seek nothing more than the fulfilment of the commitments contained in the resolutions of the Security Council. Their right to decide their own future cannot lapse. The passage of 53 years has only compounded the tragedy of the Kashmiri people and prolonged their travail. The long delay has only heightened the terrible dangers inherent in the festering dispute. According to the All Parties Freedom Conference, 72,000 Kashmiris have been killed since 1989. Thousands more have been tortured and maimed or have disappeared. The massive human rights violations in Kashmir, and the repression and brutality perpetrated on the Kashmiri people by occupation forces, are a grave crime of State terrorism. In a desperate attempt to undermine and suppress the Kashmiri Freedom Movement, the perpetrators of repression and violence against the Kashmiri people have tried to portray the freedom struggle as terrorism. Such propaganda did not carry credibility in the past and it cannot do so now. It is familiar to all those who 14 have won freedom after protracted struggles against colonialism and foreign occupation. Pakistan has consistently vowed to seek a peaceful settlement of the Kashmir dispute. Two years ago, the Security Council once again emphasized the need to resolve the dispute, which has been the source of tension and conflict in the region. The provisions of Article 33 of the Charter place an obligation on Member States to settle disputes through recourse to negotiation, inquiry, conciliation, mediation, arbitration or adjudication. Each and every one of these means is acceptable to Pakistan. Faced with the intransigent rejection of peaceful means, the Security Council has a responsibility to act. The Charter empowers the Security Council to do so. What is needed is a stronger commitment to action. In its absence, mere talk of crisis prevention and dispute resolution will lack credibility. Afghanistan remains trapped in a terrible tragedy. Its protracted war of liberation in the 1980s left it devastated. The internecine war in the 1990s has inflicted further ravages. The economy of the country is in shambles. Drought in southern Afghanistan this past year has added to the misery of the people of this ancient land. Tied to the Afghan people by bonds of geography, history and culture, the people of Pakistan view the tragedy in Afghanistan with a deep sense of sympathy. Despite economic stringency, we continue to provide shelter to 1.5 million Afghan refugees. The interruption of the food supply from, or via, Pakistan would further aggravate hardship and trigger a fresh influx. That is why Pakistan is opposed to sanctions that hurt people. No people except the Afghan people themselves have suffered more from the conflict and instability in Afghanistan than the people of Pakistan. It is natural therefore that Pakistan should support all efforts for peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan. We were encouraged to note a similarity of approaches by the Foreign Ministers of the six contiguous countries, the Russian Federation and the United States at the “Six- plus-Two” group meeting convened on 15 September by the Secretary-General. Pooling our resources and influence, we should make more energetic efforts to persuade the Afghan parties and assist the Secretary- General of the United Nations in his efforts to promote a broad-based Government acceptable to the Afghan political parties and ethnic groups. We support the Islamic Republic of Iran as it leads a parallel effort for peace in Afghanistan on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). We also appreciate the efforts recently undertaken by Turkmenistan. In our view, all these efforts complement and reinforce each other. In his report on the work of the Organization (A/55/1), the Secretary-General referred to the influx of war materiel to Afghanistan from outside. Pakistan urges not only a ceasefire but also a ban on the supply of military equipment to the Afghan parties and the establishment of a monitoring mechanism for its enforcement. We also remain cognizant of the imperative of respect for sovereignty. The Afghan people have a history of fierce resistance against outside interference. Engagement with the Afghan Government offers better hope for amelioration than attempts to drive it into a corner and isolate it. The United Nations has been providing humanitarian relief in Afghanistan. Programmes aimed at rehabilitation and reconstruction may help bring the country back into the international mainstream sooner. That is also the more compassionate way. Pakistan, itself a victim of terrorism, condemns that evil in all its forms and manifestations, whether committed by individuals, groups or States. Our Government has ratified nine international conventions against terrorism and we join all international efforts to combat this menace. Pakistan has historically supported all proposals and agreements aimed at the limitation, progressive reduction and eventual elimination of weapons of mass destruction. For over a quarter of a century we made efforts and initiated proposals to keep our area free of nuclear weapons. Also, Pakistan has been prepared to support universal and non-discriminatory measures and proposals. Pakistan voted in favour of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty in 1996 and intended to sign it along with all others, especially the designated States. The process of bringing that Treaty into force was derailed due to events not of our own making. Even then, Pakistan was not the first to conduct tests in 1998. Pakistan will not be the first to resume them. We still hope the Treaty can be brought into force. Pakistan will not obstruct the realization of that aim. Our Government continues efforts to build domestic consensus in favour of signing the Treaty. 15 Meanwhile, restraint and responsibility remain the guiding principles of our nuclear policy. Pakistan will not enter into any nuclear arms race. Our sole aim is to retain minimum credible deterrence. I wish to reaffirm in this Assembly that our nuclear capability is only meant to deter aggression against Pakistan; it poses no threat to any country. We support efforts aimed at the prevention of the vertical or horizontal proliferation of nuclear weapons. During the past year we have further strengthened domestic regulations against export of nuclear equipment or materials. Our power reactors are under international safeguards. Pakistan is prepared to cooperate in efforts to introduce restraints on the development, production and deployment of ballistic missiles. To be successful, however, such efforts must be non-discriminatory. Their aim must be stabilization of the situation. Any use of nuclear weapons is inconceivable. However, the Charter obliges Members to refrain from the threat or the use of any force. The world community should, therefore, emphasize no-first-use of force, nuclear or conventional. At the global level, Pakistan supports calls for the continued observance of the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. The militarization of outer space would be a disservice to hopes for the maintenance of existing restraint and stability. Pakistan will participate in negotiations on the proposed fissile material cut-off treaty and make a positive contribution to evolving a fair and an equitable text that all countries can support. In his address to the Millennium Summit, the Chief Executive of Pakistan, General Pervez Musharraf, stated: “The best assurance for the consolidation of global peace lies in the economic development and prosperity of all regions and all peoples. Economic progress in one region supports and complements prosperity in the other.” (A/55/PV.4) Development is not a zero-sum game. Accordingly, the Millennium Declaration commits world leaders to “making the right to development a reality for everyone” (resolution 55/2, para. 11) and freeing the entire human race from want. Globalization raised hopes, as it offered opportunities for faster economic growth, higher living standards and accelerated benefits from the flow of knowledge and technology. But there have been disappointments. Experience has shown that the benefits of globalization have been uneven and that the number of people living in poverty has actually increased. Technological and information revolutions have accentuated global inequality, and a new digital divide has led to the marginalization of a large number of developing countries. Global trade regimes benefit the rich, and the South has become poorer. Competition, standards, a variety of non-tariff barriers, increasingly complex trading practices, protectionism in selected sectors such as agriculture, and restrictions on technology transfers all militate against the interests of the developing countries. They find it hard to secure adequate returns for their products or to attract investment to improve their competitiveness. As a result, economic disparities are widening. This belies the promise of free markets to ensure the well-being of all. The failure of the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle last November and dissenting voices heard in Washington last April make it clear that the international economic system needs to be fixed. Concerted global action is required for sustained development to benefit and protect weaker economies. The industrialized countries have a special responsibility to adopt bold initiatives. Professions of a desire for the eradication of poverty must first lead to the establishment of an international economic policy framework responsive to the needs of the developing countries. One important area is the debt issue. In one of the interactive dialogues the Secretary-General proposed that the United Nations could mediate between creditors and debtors to address the debt problem. We welcome this proposal. Our Chief Executive, speaking at the same meeting, suggested that developing indebted countries should be allowed to utilize resources allocated to debt servicing for the development of the social sector, especially education and health care. Substantive debt relief through innovative approaches will go a long way to help developing countries ensure global harmony and regenerate a new economic partnership between the North and the South. 16 A holistic approach to deal with problems of development and poverty eradication is necessary. While we welcome the Secretary-General's initiative to bridge the digital divide, the emphasis must remain on addressing mass literacy, capacity-building, infrastructure and basic health facilities. Similarly, multilateral trade regimes should be development- oriented. Environmental concerns about the prudent use of natural resources must be pursued simultaneously with emphasis on sustained economic growth in the South. The High-level International Intergovernmental Event on Financing for Development, which will be held next year, must involve the world's finance, trade and development organizations in discussing the issues comprehensively. The conference should promote good governance at the international level. It must address how we can manage globalization appropriately so that its benefits reach everyone, ensuring universal prosperity. The upsurge of democracy in the past decade has been a good omen for the start of the new millennium. This salutary trend can only be sustained through equitable economic development. Unless the developing nations are able to have a fair share in rising levels of global prosperity, the advocacy of democratic values and human and social standards will remain hollow. In Pakistan we are addressing the challenges of both economic revival and institutional reforms that emphasize accountability, good governance and the devolution of power to grass-roots levels political institutions. In this endeavour, the Government is banking on the support and enthusiasm of our people. We believe that democracy is, first and foremost, empowerment of the people, based on strong institutions. The world community is well aware of the ravages inflicted on fragile economies of developing countries and their poor people as a result of corruption and the transfer of illegal funds to safe havens abroad. They are often the worst victims of such malpractice due to socio-economic forces within and banking practices outside their countries. The welfare of humanity in developing countries demands international cooperation for the prevention of corruption. Such cooperation was urged in resolutions 53/176 of 15 December 1998 and 54/205 of 22 December 1999. The South Summit, held in Havana in April 2000, also requested remedial action. Transfers of illicit funds from developing countries will not make the rich countries much richer, but they will make the poor countries poorer. It is a paradox that some rich countries have such lax laws that they provide safe havens and encourage private banks to launder illicit funds looted by corrupt persons from poor countries by facilitating the establishment of secret accounts. That is tantamount to the encouragement of plunder, indeed, of financial terrorism. The nexus between corruption and the failure of democracy was recognized also in the Final Declaration issued by the meeting of the Community of Democracies in Warsaw, held from 25 to 27 June 2000. It emphasized the need to combat corruption, which corrodes democracy. We need, therefore, to take effective action. We propose that the General Assembly should proclaim a policy of zero tolerance of all types of corruption and urge a ban on the laundering of illicit funds. The United Nations has emerged as the only forum with the universal recognition and authority to address the entire spectrum of issues relating to human aspirations for peace, justice and development. To meet these growing expectations, this world body must be strengthened. Its role must be reinforced in order to ensure a better future for the world. We support the call for enhancing the capacity of the United Nations in the areas of conflict prevention and peacekeeping. In this regard, we commend Mr. Brahimi and members of the high-level Panel for their extensive report. As an important participant in United Nations peace-keeping operations, we in Pakistan look forward to discussions on the useful ideas and concepts that have been presented in the report to enable the United Nations to respond more effectively to existing and incipient conflicts and threats to international peace and security. No other aspect of reform of the United Nations merits as close attention as the need to make the Security Council more democratic, transparent and accountable. Periodic elections of a larger number of members will make the Security Council not only more representative but also more responsive to the aspirations of the world community. That will enhance the capacity of this vital organ to contribute to the 17 maintenance of international peace and security and to the realization of the purposes of the Organization. That objective will not be achieved by the creation of new centres of privilege which detract from the cardinal principle of the sovereign equality of States. For the same reason, the decision-making process needs to be made more democratic. For the Security Council to command universal respect, its reform should have the general agreement of the membership. Nothing should be done in haste or in a manner that divides the membership or impairs the authority and prestige of the Council. In this increasingly interactive world, we share with other nations the desire for a peaceful environment and mutually beneficial cooperation, and we see a pivotal role for the United Nations. The universality of the United Nations gives it a stature and legitimacy that is unprecedented in history. The Organization should begin the twenty-first century by demonstrating a clear commitment to addressing and resolving the key development and security challenges facing our peoples. It must be enabled to apply its immutable principles and its decisions consistently and forcefully to ensure durable peace, sustained economic progress and a better future for all humanity.  I wish to congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland on his election to the presidency of this historic session of the General Assembly. I also take this opportunity to congratulate his predecessor, my dear brother and colleague, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, on a job well done. Zimbabwe joins other Members of the Assembly in welcoming the admission of Tuvalu as the one hundred and eighty-ninth Member State of the United Nations. Since a Millennium Assembly can only come once in a lifetime, it is my singular honour and pleasure to address this Assembly. The twentieth century was probably the most eventful in the history and the experience of Zimbabwe. As we enter the twenty-first century and the new millennium, the people of Zimbabwe, in a very symbolic and yet historic way, find themselves concluding painful chapters of their experience, whose closure is critical to the laying of a foundation for a better future. Structural inequalities are a fundamental reality of Africa's colonial past, which many countries like my own are grappling with to this day. In my country 70 per cent of Zimbabwe's best arable land is still controlled by less than 1 per cent of the population — roughly 4,500 settlers or their descendants. This is in a country of nearly 13 million people. It is a historical fact that the colonial regime forcefully robbed us of this land without paying us any compensation. As I speak, the Government of Zimbabwe is in the process of taking back 5 million of the 12 million hectares of our prime land to settle landless peasants. Zimbabwe's land reform programme is meant not only to correct the wrongs wrought on our society by colonialism, but also to restore our people's heritage and basic means of subsistence and economic participation. In this endeavour, we have received neither the cooperation of those sectors of our society to which colonialism bequeathed special privileges, nor the acknowledgement or support of former colonizers who willed those privileges. In pursuit of their policies, those powerful interests have employed their financial might, as well as their control of the media to not only choke our economy but also to demonize us before the world. We cannot, in one breath, pay lip service to human rights, equality and poverty eradication and, in the next, defend inequality, which condemns the majority to a life in squalor. We invite all our partners to see through the veil of the negative and racist media 19 blitz, acquaint themselves with our people's real need for justice, restoration and agrarian reform and help us remove the barriers that constrain poor people's ability to benefit from their economy and to contribute to its growth. Our determination to undertake land reform in Zimbabwe is one of the “crimes” cited in the so-called Zimbabwe Democracy Act 2000, which was passed by the United States Senate in June this year and is before Congress as I speak. It proposes to prescribe the outcome of our land reform exercise and seeks to virtually usurp the authority of the Parliament of Zimbabwe. Most ironically, the so-called Democracy Act proposes to authorize the investment of United States funds of around Z$ 300 million in the breeding of opposition parties in Zimbabwe. That amount, which is exclusively for opposition parties, is more than four times the Z$70 million distributed by the Zimbabwean fiscus among all political parties that have a stipulated threshold representation in Parliament. Are we expected to just stand idly by and watch helplessly as our destiny is determined from outside our country? Where, I ask, is our self-determination and our sovereignty, for which so much blood and so many lives were sacrificed by our people? The measure seeks to hurt Zimbabwe's fortunes even further by issuing United States directors at the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank with standing directives to vote against Zimbabwe at every opportunity. This means that even if Zimbabwe met all macroeconomic requirements and exercised the requisite fiscal discipline it would still be disqualified in its quest for assistance from the Bretton Woods institutions, on the basis of political considerations that are totally extraneous to the stipulated technical criteria. Just what are the rules of the game, and to whom are these international financial institutions accountable? Do we need any further justification for the resounding call for a new international financial architecture? For while the current international financial architecture is subservient to the interests of the rich and the strong, even to the satisfaction of their last extraterritorial exploit, it remains for ever insensitive to the survival needs of the small, the weak and the poor. Zimbabwe's involvement in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to help prevent mayhem, bloodshed and the overthrow of a legitimate Government there is another “crime” cited in the Zimbabwe Democracy Act 2000. At the invitation of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Zimbabwe, together with other allies of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), sent troops to the Democratic Republic of the Congo to help fend off an invasion by two of that country's neighbours. The responsive intervention of the SADC allies effectively contained the situation and established the relative calm and stability prevailing in the Democratic Republic of the Congo today. It also paved the way for the peace process that culminated in the signing last year of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, which, all involved agree, offers the best hope for establishing and maintaining peace in the region. What does Zimbabwe get in return for its sacrifices in upholding the principles of the United Nations Charter? Sanctions and threats of more sanctions are the response. For helping to create the very conditions that enabled the United Nations to set foot in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Zimbabwe is today questioned, tried and sentenced to pariah status. Some of the proponents of the Zimbabwe Democracy Act 2000 have demanded that Zimbabwe withdraw its troops from the Democratic Republic of the Congo before they can even consider withdrawing that measure. Are we being punished for creating conditions that enabled the United Nations and other humanitarian agencies to deliver assistance to Congolese communities? Are we being vilified for enabling thousands of Congolese children to get polio vaccinations and other types of life-saving immunization? After offering our partnership in the quest for peace and human well-being, we expect the international community to respond accordingly and cooperate with us. Instead of punishing those who invaded the Democratic Republic of the Congo, instead of censuring those who are violating the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in blatant desecration of cardinal principles of the Charter, instead of questioning those who are already in contempt of Security Council orders to withdraw immediately from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, some members of the international community have chosen, rather, to 20 victimize Zimbabwe, whose troops are in the Democratic Republic of the Congo at the invitation of the Government of that country. Exactly what outcome does the international community wish to see in the Democratic Republic of the Congo? I reiterate, and categorically so, that Zimbabwe is committed to the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement and to Security Council resolutions adopted on this question. In this regard, Zimbabwe is ready to immediately withdraw its troops from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, under the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, as soon as the United Nations deploys peacekeepers in that country. We therefore urge the Secretary-General to deploy the observer mission already authorized by the Security Council as part of phase two deployment, so that we can move to phase three and the deployment of actual peacekeepers in order to enable us to leave the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Like their neighbours in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the peace-loving people of Angola are victims of an imposed war that has been fomented by greed rather than grievance. While the crisis is far from resolved, we are mollified by the position taken by the Security Council, through the Angola sanctions Committee, to ensure the effective application of the embargo against UNITA. We support the SecretaryGeneral's stance of naming and shaming the violators of sanctions as a way of preventing the opportunism and greed that fan conflicts. This was the position adopted by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) at its last summit, in Lomé, Togo. In both the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Angola, we challenge the United Nations, and the Security Council in particular, to come to the aid and defence of the innocent victims of war, to protect their natural heritage and resources from pillage, and to safeguard their territorial integrity and national sovereignty. With regard to the Lockerbie affair, we still await the Security Council's comprehensive and final response to Libya's full compliance with the Council's resolutions. It was the Council's own commitment that such a conclusive step would be taken 90 days after Libya's full compliance. We call for transparency and fairness in the trial itself, at The Hague, to avoid any miscarriage of justice. The international community must never lose track of the long, drawn-out dialogue on the peace process in the Middle East, particularly in Palestine. We call for good faith and consistency in the negotiations until the brotherly Palestinian people attain statehood with national sovereignty and territorial integrity. In Western Sahara, the international community owes it to the Sahrawi people to ensure the early holding of a free and fair referendum to allow them the priceless opportunity to determine their destiny. On the global economic front, the last decade of the twentieth century witnessed tremendous progress in some parts of the world, but it also saw stagnation and setbacks, even in some countries that had previously experienced fast economic growth. Periods of economic and financial crisis lead to retrenchment, wherein concern for people gives way to concern for balancing budgets and payments. Those crises have underscored the importance of understanding and strengthening the social underpinnings of development to ensure that peoples, their cultures and their societies are taken into account in the process of development. Poverty amid plenty is an affront to our common humanity. At a time when the world has the wherewithal to attack poverty vigorously, spectacular affluence and abject poverty are found side by side. In contrast to its potential as the ultimate provider of new opportunities for growth and development worldwide, globalization has been accompanied by widening income disparities among, as well as within, countries and regions. Its ill effects have disproportionately victimized the most vulnerable and marginalized nations and sections of society. Globalization is redefining the nature and role of States and the governance of international bodies, thereby subordinating democratic political processes to unaccountable economic and financial actors and institutions. Globalization is thus undermining the ability of Governments to serve as guarantors of the social, economic, political and cultural health of our communities. At the expense of our common goals and objectives for international economic cooperation, we have surrendered to blind market forces in the faint hope that somehow things will, as if by magic, turn out right. The consequences of that impoverishing process are clearly visible in a number of alarming trends, such as the takeover of national assets by transnational corporations in the name of public enterprise 21 privatization and commercialization. As a result, Africa enters the new century hanging on the vagaries of global markets, accounting for only 1 per cent of global gross domestic product and about 2 per cent of world trade. Geographically, Africa is probably the world's most fragmented region. The continent is demarcated by about 165 borders dividing it into 53 countries, 22 of them with less than 5 million people and 11 with less than 1 million. That fragmentation imposes real constraints on development, and, without economic integration, Africa will fall farther behind. We therefore call upon the international community to support our efforts at regional integration as we promote regional public assets and initiatives, including regional infrastructure such as roads, railways, ports and power-pooling systems, infectious disease control, centres of excellence for training, regional markets and trade, and agricultural research and early warning systems for drought. Despite talk of the global village, it is apparent that Africa's lonely days are not yet over. For we still have cause and occasion to feel marginalized in so many respects. We know what it is like to give passage to emergency aircraft and sea vessels that criss-cross our airspace and waterways to attend to emerging crises in distant places while our own crises simmer on and explode in our faces. Our ceasefire agreements and truces are tested beyond limit, while the United Nations stands aloof and unimpressed; yet urgent interventions are deployed to flashpoints in other regions, even without ceasefire guarantees. Hesitant and half-spirited interventions by the Security Council in several African conflicts have neither done the job nor enhanced the credibility of the United Nations. As the United Nations organ uniquely mandated to maintain international peace and security, the Security Council should make itself equally attentive to the needs of the world's family of nations, including through cooperation with regional arrangements everywhere, as provided for in Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. Or is it true that so long as the Security Council remains unreformed, it will always fail to respond adequately to the interests of all the Members of the United Nations? As we review the progress of nations and design the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century, we need to remind ourselves that “we the peoples” of the world constitute the real wealth of the brotherhood of nations. The thrust of the United Nations agenda — and, indeed, of development — is therefore to create an enabling environment for people to enjoy long, healthy, peaceful and creative lives. I wish to put it to this Millennium Assembly that the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century is to champion the agenda of the world's weak, those marginalized and impoverished by globalization, those currently circumscribed to the margins of policy and decision-making in the international economic and socio-political system. In brief, it is to protect the weak and manage the strong.  The twentieth century was one of great trials and great achievements. The new century will be what we make of it. Whatever has been won in the name of peace, the hunting season in history is not quite over. Tension between nations has not disappeared. Ethnic strife, religious extremism, economic inequity and social injustice continue to fuel conflict. Agents of terror and transnational criminals strike everywhere. Despite the new wealth of nations, 1.2 billion people live on less than $1 a day. The 32 poorest African countries do not earn much more than the richest man on earth. And, despite the grinding poverty of billions, the world spends $145 per capita on military forces. We must do better — much better — than this. Our Organization received the needed impetus at last week's Millennium Summit. That should not be squandered. The fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly must reflect the new global covenant for peace and progress. As always, the United Nations must be at the forefront of this great enterprise. We are here to lead. The Philippine delegation sees this Millennium Assembly as a bridge to link three divides: those of the past and the future; of experience and vision; and of promise and fulfilment. Fifty-five years ago our Organization arose from the ashes of war. Some founding Member States were very young, just recently set free from centuries of colonial rule. All were still preoccupied with tasks of rebuilding lives and neighbourhoods shattered by the Great War. The ideological divide was to become deeper and wider. The foundations for the walls and curtains that defined an era were just being laid. For the average person then a truly global community was no more than an ideal, remote and all but removed from the day-to-day lives of mostly rural, agricultural populations. Now we are all part of the global village. Interdependence is a recognized and accepted fact. “Globalization” is on the lips of everyone, sometimes with scorn, at other times with affection, but always with the discernment that it is the wave of the future. Above all else, that future belongs to all the world's people, to both the affluent and the destitute, to both the strong and the weak. With everyone's direct involvement in charting and realizing our common 10 destiny, we open the door to the fullest flowering of humanity's potential. We also affirm human dignity. “Wiring” the world's cities into the information grid of the twenty-first century is indeed one wise investment we should be making today. But if anyone were left out, if the “digital device” were but to echo and perpetuate social injustice on a global scale, we would not have moved far from where we started. The past would simply repeat itself. To empower people is to build our bridge to the future. The world's leaders were therefore on the mark when they enshrined freedom, equality, solidarity, tolerance, respect for nature and shared responsibility as the fundamental, people-empowering values of the twenty-first century. Now, it is this Assembly's turn to employ those values and take steps to achieve the specific objectives set by the Summit for people empowerment. Let us buckle down to work and ensure that by 2015 all children will be able to complete primary schooling and, beyond that date, that they have the opportunities to pursue higher levels of education. For let us face it, education is the best tool for protecting human rights, promoting democracy and advancing good governance. But because a sound mind will work better in a sound body, let us win the battle against disease, including HIV/AIDS, which lays to waste millions in the world's poorest regions. Let us take action to drastically reduce maternal and under-five child mortality from their horrendous current rates and to achieve the lofty goals of the “Cities Without Slums” initiative. Let us invest in humanity. Let us launch in this Assembly nothing short of a Marshall Plan for the world's people. Let us build this human bridge to our future, now. The United Nations has both the experience and the vision needed for success. Our Organization has both the privilege and the duty to lead our world into the future with confidence. We know how to do it. To sustain the United Nations capacity to carry out its tasks, deep institutional reforms must now take place. A more energetic and financially stable world Organization, led by a proactive General Assembly and strengthened by a truly representative and transparent Security Council, must now emerge. For the new covenant on peace to prosper, the United Nations must remain, without equivocation or doubt, the first and last peacemaker and peacekeeper of the world. It should also be the vanguard that champions the rule of law in international as well as in internal affairs. Preventive diplomacy must be our principal tool in warding off conflict. We must reduce the use of force. But where we need to use it, as in self-defence or under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, we should be guided by international legal norms and practice. United Nations peacekeeping operations should be prosecuted with clear and well-defined mandates, adequate resources and strong international support wherever they take place. The report of the Brahimi Panel on United Nations Peace Operations deserves our urgent and careful consideration. More than ever, the United Nations must now gather together the political will of all nations to bring about the final stage of disarmament and the much- awaited arrival of a nuclear-weapon-free world. Towards this end, we must support the Secretary- General's call to convene a conference on nuclear dangers, actively participate in the 2001 small arms conference, negotiate a comprehensive convention against terrorism and progressively improve weapons and arms budget transparency measures. The central role of the United Nations does not and should not stop at matters of international peace and security. It should also be at the heart of our efforts to promote prosperity for all. It should lead the charge against poverty and the efforts to halve, by 2015, the proportion of people whose income is less than one dollar a day. Along with the Bretton Woods institutions and other multilateral organizations and fora, the United Nations is well placed to make important contributions to the reform of global economic and financial systems. For our goal is not only to have a borderless world for unfettered trade and investment. We should found a global economic regime that builds productive capacities, not income gaps; that promotes openness, not corruption; that rewards enterprise, not greed. In all these, partnerships with the private sector and with civil society are indispensable. Every man, women and child is our co-stakeholder and partner. For what we are trying to build is a new global order where human security goes beyond mere military security; where law upholds human dignity and both people and State uphold the law; and where political pluralism and cultural diversity are requisite to the attainment of common human objectives. In other words, peace and prosperity must rest more on human cooperation than on anything else. For in this global village, cooperation is the only tenable way to bridge experience and vision. The United Nations Millennium Declaration embodies our collective hope: the promise of a true community of nations working together for a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. We know that between this promise and its fulfilment lies a tortuous road, yet we must tread its length. In this journey, the first and most important step we should take is to remove the greatest source of danger and discord, that is, underdevelopment. For if one is not free of want, he cannot be free of fear. In the developing world, the toll from decades of turmoil and abject underdevelopment has been so debilitating that only international relief can help some of us back to our feet. Many of us may cry for safety nets. But not even fish welcome life inside a net. What we need is a new deal for the poor countries. Development is particularly difficult for countries saddled by mountains of crippling debt. Some 1.6 trillion dollars is now owed by developing countries, several of which have to use up to 95 per cent of their hard currency revenues to service debt. In the meantime, development assistance is declining. This year, grants to developing countries may total 40 billion US dollars — a mere half of what it was a quarter century ago. As earnest for our collective future, we should have meaningful debt relief for the world's heavily indebted poor countries immediately. Let us also see the fulfilment of the promises of overseas development assistance (ODA) made three decades ago. Further steps must be taken at the third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries next year. We must ensure its success to help our brothers and sisters in Africa, in landlocked developing countries, in nations particularly vulnerable to natural disasters and in least developed countries in all regions of the world. At this Assembly, we should do our utmost to guarantee that all preparations necessary for the success of this conference are made. We must also redeem the pledge of our leaders to make every effort to ensure the success of the high- level international and intergovernmental event on financing for development in 2001. By investing this event with the active participation, goodwill and expertise of all stakeholders, including the private sector, from the preparatory stages to the plan's implementation, we may yet achieve what several United Nations Development Decades have not. The world's people took heart from the boldness of spirit and resolve our leaders expressed in the United Nations Millennium Declaration. They were reassured that we intend to take the world into the future as partners and not as adversaries. They wished for clear direction from our leaders, and they received it. Now, they look to us in this Millennium Assembly for concrete action. Let us rise to the challenge and build the bridges to peace and prosperity for all the united nations. I wish at the outset to convey my warm congratulations to Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session and to reaffirm our confidence in his ability to guide our work at this session. The delegation of Guinea-Bissau, which it is my privilege to head, assures the President of its full cooperation. Our congratulations go also to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, who fulfilled his mandate in a constructive manner, thus making an important contribution to the work of the General Assembly. We wish also to express our trust and appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to thank him for the important steps that have been taken on his initiative towards substantive reform of the United Nations and towards bolstering the Organization's international credibility. The universality of the United Nations gains whenever a new Member State is admitted. By joining the United Nations, Tuvalu has affirmed to the international community that it will shoulder responsibility for the full exercise of its sovereignty. Its accession to membership has reinforced the representative nature of this world forum. In the third millennium, with our eyes focused on a new century, we are passing through a historic period in which new and significant events give rise to new hopes on the international scene. This diagnosis, however, encompasses both hope and scepticism, for it shows that the transitional period we are living through involves factors of both integration and disaggregation. If, on the one hand, the end of bipolarism that dominated international relations diminished ideological antagonisms, this new and unprecedented process, by undoing old political and strategic balances, is promoting democratic impulses, freeing the energy of States and creating space for a new international order more in line with our times. On the other hand, the rise of nationalist aspirations, supported by the yearning for the right to free evolution, has had the effect of triggering old conflicts, some of them forgotten in time. This phenomenon has led to an exponential growth of conflicts that menaces the internal cohesion of States as well as international peace and security. It was predicted, and legitimately so, that the international economy would be able to take advantage of the peace dividend resulting from the end of the arms race. It had been expected that those resources would be invested in the poorest countries and, thus, would have contributed to the acceleration of global economic growth and development. Our perception, however, is that, due to the present state of international economic relations, those optimistic expectations have not come to fruition. As the international balance of power has changed, the relative position that placed different countries in the international, political and economic pecking order has also changed. The very nature of relations among States has also been transformed. However, the rules and practices giving structure to a new international order are yet to be defined. Our perception is that this is the main unresolved issue. This calls for the community of nations, through our common institutions, to work determinedly together in order to bring the present transition to a successful end. To do so, it will be essential to empower the system of collective security embodied in the United Nations. In particular, we attach great importance to the revitalization of the General Assembly and the rationalization of its agenda. We also feel there is a need to reform the Security Council so that that organ, which has special responsibilities, will be able to fulfil its original mission and be reborn as the main political instrument for action in the United Nations. Expectations without precedent devolve upon the United Nations. We should all strive to find a solution to the present structural and financial crises faced by the Organization. It will be necessary to reactivate its dynamism in order to implement the 'Agenda for Peace' and to make the 'Agenda for Development' a reality. It is widely known that Guinea-Bissau has just overcome the gravest crisis the country has experienced in its recent history. We are still convalescing from the terrible effects of an absurd and disastrous war. In addition to irreparable loss of life, Guinea-Bissau society was deeply traumatized by a conflict that almost destroyed the entire existing infrastructure. Guinea-Bissau was made more impoverished and more vulnerable. Its reconstruction, the foundations of which are fragile, will be very difficult, because even simple tasks have assumed urgent priority. The urgency and the sheer volume of the effort needed to rebuild the country go far beyond the limited possibilities of a Government that is near exhaustion. In order to succeed, that effort will need to be supplemented by the effective participation of every partner of Guinea-Bissau. In this new period of the restoration of democratic legality, the people of Guinea-Bissau have elected their new Government within the framework of a pluralist democracy. The new National People's Assembly has approved a general programme of action, prepared by the Government, which defines a strategy for sustainable development aimed at implementing the priorities identified, in cooperation with Guinea- Bissau's partners. This programme of action and the project of building a new society, required by the evolution of the situation in Guinea-Bissau, have been set out by Guinea-Bissau's new President, who was freely elected by the people. Aware of the sacred responsibility incumbent upon him, President Kumba Yal· has committed himself to upholding the programme of action. As on past occasions when we were beneficiaries of timely and precious solidarity extended by the international community, we are hopeful that the political, economic and social progress of Guinea- Bissau will be further supported and maintained. Amilcar Cabral, the founder of our nation, considered himself and the other Guinea-Bissau freedom fighters to be combatants for the noble causes upheld by the United Nations. Today, after the heroic struggle that led to our independence, and thanks also to the support received from the international community and the United Nations, Guinea-Bissau is participating in the highest world diplomatic forums with serenity and determination, embarking on an unrelenting search to improve on the heritage of our forebears. Therefore, acting with responsibility and specificity, Guinea-Bissau has undertaken its own initiatives, as well as presenting proposals aimed at the defence of its interests and at contributing to the advancement of the causes of peace and international cooperation. We recognize that in today's international situation, rife with conflicts and contradictions, the United Nations remains, without a doubt, the necessary forum for the development of the activities undertaken by our Government to affirm the international presence of Guinea-Bissau. The five African Portuguese-speaking countries, joined with Brazil, Portugal and Timor Lorosae the latter still being an observer to form the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries. This Lusophone Community is characterized by solidarity and tolerance, based upon shared sentiments and perceptions rooted in a melding of cultures that expresses the experience of our respective peoples. We would like to salute the development in the processes of democratization of Government structures that is now occurring in Sao Tome and Principe, Mozambique and Cape Verde, similar to what happened in Guinea-Bissau. This will allow our Governments to better respond to the legitimate aspirations of our peoples. We wish to express our solidarity with the Angolan Government and people, which have experienced the nightmare of almost 40 years of war. We support the efforts in search of peace and national reconciliation. We strongly favour the implementation by the United Nations of the Lusaka Protocol and the full implementation of the sanctions established by the Security Council. In our West African subregion, Guinea-Bissau has tried, and to a certain extent has attained, in terms of its will for integration, a political commitment aimed at improving our relations with neighbouring countries so as to promote the cause of peace. In this spirit, we recognize that in its essence the conflict of Casamance is an internal issue of Senegal. As such, we also perceive its negative consequences on the neighbouring States. Our country is ready to work in the search for a just solution to and peaceful resolution of that conflict. 40 We feel, however, that we are neither a part of the problem nor its source of origin. The constructive actions undertaken by Presidents Kumba Yal· of Guinea-Bissau and Wade of Senegal, with the support of President Jammeh of the Gambia, allow us to look with optimism to the future evolution of that issue. We deeply deplore the tragedy that has befallen Sierra Leone, a country of our subregion. The increased violence in that country has resulted in a humanitarian disaster. We urge the belligerent factions and the Government of Sierra Leone to cooperate with the international community in order to find a definitive solution to that fratricidal conflict. The situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the Great Lakes region continues to be a source of concern to Guinea-Bissau. It is necessary to summon the political will of the countries of the region to diminish the tension and to continue to search for a just solution. The Lusaka accords are the result of the perseverance of the parties involved and should be implemented rapidly and comprehensively. They are the essential framework for the resolution of the conflict. We are convinced that the implementation of Security Council resolution 1291 (2000), which established the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, represents the road to peace. In the Horn of Africa, Guinea-Bissau welcomes the acceptance by Ethiopia and Eritrea of the peace plan put forward by the Organization of African Unity. We encourage both parties to persist on the path of dialog and negotiation and to continue to cooperate with our continental organization. In the immediate vicinity of our continent, the Middle East peace process is entering a decisive period. This process and the quest for equanimity should be accelerated in order to ensure a lasting and just peace that respects the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to an independent State of its own, as well as the right of all States of the region, including Israel, to national independence. Far from the African continent, Guinea-Bissau continues to pay special attention to the issue of East Timor. We are linked to that territory by special historic and cultural bonds and we are therefore closely following the work of the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor and the recent establishment of a transitional Government. We hope that the process will culminate in the full independence of Timor Lorosae and with its admission as a full Member of the United Nations. Finally, we believe that the situations created by the imposition of embargoes against certain countries, in which sanctions affect the poorer sectors of the populations, particularly women and children, should be addressed through dialogue and negotiation with a view to finding a definitive solution. In the age of globalization, we should not lose sight of the human being and its vital needs. If it is legitimate that all parties have the right to expect profit from progress, it is also correct that we should seek economic growth with social equity. Mankind faces many challenges, among which achieving comprehensive development is without doubt the most important, because the lack of development is the main source of the conflicts that lead to the crises afflicting our planet. Therefore, if we wish globalization to live up to its promise, we should learn better to work and to act together in order to correct its negative effects. It is urgently necessary to give momentum to the North-South dialogue on the basis of equality and to develop a wide network of South-South cooperation with a view to minimizing the risks of globalization. That effort must be fully supported by the international community with a view to a true partnership for development. Such partnership, in our view, should enable us to find the modalities of a coherent international action to ensure sustainable economic growth in the context of true development. The structural adjustment policies adopted by the majority of African countries are, per se, clear proof of their willingness to improve the management of their national economies. Nevertheless, in most cases, the response of our development partners has not been in line with the sacrifices demanded and the urgency of the problems identified. From our point of view, it is necessary to identify the mechanisms needed to promote a true social adjustment, keeping the human individual as its central point of reference. In this context, the collective challenge we face is to stress a dynamic image of international solidarity, which may be translated into effective action for social and economic cooperation in favour of developing countries. 41 Our gathering here at the General Assembly represents the best opportunity to correct the imbalances that destabilize the global process. We need to muster the determination of all our countries in order to raise relations among States to the high level of dignity required by our shared future.May I, on behalf of my delegation and the Government and people of the Republic of Sierra Leone, add my vice to those before me to offer warm felicitations on your election as President of this epoch-making fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, the Millennium Assembly. Your long and distinguished career in the service of your country and on the international scene makes you eminently suitable for election. My delegation is confident that under your able guidance, our deliberations will be smooth and productive. Indeed, we have seen evidence of that in your insistence on punctuality. I want to assure you, Sir, of my delegation's fullest cooperation. To our brother and colleague Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, I convey my delegation's gratitude and appreciation for the able manner in which he conducted the affairs of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I should like to thank Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and his colleagues and staff, whose dedication to duty deserves the highest commendation. I extend our special gratitude to Mr. Annan for his insight into the problems in my country and the objective manner in which he has reported his findings to the Security Council. The United Nations Security Council has deployed over 13,000 peacekeeping troops in Sierra Leone, the largest number in any country at any one time. In collaboration with my Government, it is setting up a special court to try all those who are guilty of the most horrendous and atrocious crimes against humanity. In furtherance of its interest in bringing stability to the country, it has planned to send a high-level delegation to Sierra Leone to assess the situation on the ground. I should also like to extend a warm congratulations to Tuvalu on its admission as the 189th Member of this Organization. 2 Following the unwarranted criminal abduction by the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) of hundreds of United Nations peacekeeping troops of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL), a peaceful demonstration by the members of civil society of Sierra Leone was organized to appeal to Foday Sankoh, the leader of the RUF, for the unconditional release of the hostages and to prevail upon him to cooperate in order successfully to implement the Lomé Peace Agreement, especially the Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (DDR) Programme. As soon as the demonstrators reached his residence, Mr. Sankoh's men opened fire on the unarmed and defenceless crowd, gunning down 20 and seriously wounding several others, two of whom later died in hospital. Subsequent events have revealed that the RUF had planned a bloody overthrow of the elected Government on the following day, 9 May 2000. This at first put the whole Lomé Peace Agreement in doubt, especially Mr. Sankoh's role as leader of the RUF. Under the Lomé Peace Agreement, Mr. Sankoh was appointed Chairman of the Strategic Mineral Resources Commission, with the status of a vice- president; he used this position to open secret negotiations with a number of people for the exploitation and sale of Sierra Leone's diamonds, without reference to any other person. The Government of Sierra Leone had signed the Lomé Peace Agreement in the belief that it would put an end to the atrocities being inflicted on defenceless civilians, especially women and children. Among other things, it provided for the demobilization, disarmament and reintegration of former combatants into society. It provided for the repatriation and resettlement of refugees and internally displaced people. It also provided for the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers (UNAMSIL) in the country. The RUF leaders have forfeited their right to benefit from the provisions of Lomé; however, because of its other provisions, my Government will revive the Agreement, particularly the DDR Programme. My Government has already expressed condolences to the Governments of those who lost their lives during the hostage-taking. UNAMSIL is to be congratulated for the professional manner in which it freed the hostages. Another group of bandits, the so- called “West Side Boys”, had seized and held captive 1 Sierra Leone soldier and 10 British servicemen who were in Sierra Leone to train a professional army which would be responsible to the democratically elected Government of the country. That group refused to release the hostages, despite the long and patient negotiations, and was even beginning to threaten their lives. Mercifully, to everyone's relief, the hostages have now been rescued. Unfortunately, one member of the British rescue team lost his life, while another was seriously wounded. My Government has already congratulated the British Government for the professionalism of the rescue team. At the same time, we have expressed heartfelt condolences for the loss of the life of a member of the team. Another recent and very welcome resolution of the Security Council is the ban on the sale of illegal diamonds from Sierra Leone, the so-called “Blood Diamonds”. As is well known, the proceeds from this trade have been used to fuel the rebel war machine. I would like to thank the Government of the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Canada for their perseverance in opposing this horrible activity, calling things by their proper names and pointing fingers in the right direction. My country is confident that the new arrangements for the marketing of our diamonds will not only end the illegal trade but will also bring sanity into the system, to the benefit of the country. Thanks to the decisive actions of the Security Council and the Economic Community of West African States under the indefatigable leadership of President Obasanjo of Nigeria and President Konare of Mali, Sierra Leoneans now see a real light at the end of what has been a long and tortuous tunnel. The forthcoming trials of those who have committed such horrendous and inhuman crimes against their fellow countrymen will be a signal to would-be adventurers that such acts will no longer go unpunished. No words can sufficiently express the thanks and gratitude of the people of Sierra Leone to the Security Council, the international community as a whole and troop-contributing countries. Following the occupation and destruction of economic areas, the carting away of our resources, the displacement of hundreds of thousands of our people and the wanton destruction of life and property, I would like to appeal to all our friends to continue and intensify their humanitarian 3 assistance and to support programmes for rebuilding our country. We have just entered a new millennium, bringing with us many unresolved problems — problems which have been discussed in this and other international forums over the years and which appear to lack any solution. We have only one world, and my delegation believes that it is worth our love. We should therefore demonstrate that love by adequately addressing outstanding issues like general disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation, peaceful settlement of disputes, prohibition and control of small arms, prohibition of landmines, poverty alleviation, affordable drugs and treatment of debilitating and killer diseases such as malaria and HIV/AIDS, advancing the Middle East peace process in accordance with various Security Council resolutions, equitable trade negotiations and, of course, reform of the Security Council.   At the outset, Sir, I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your election as President of this historic Millennium Assembly and wish you every success in your important mission. I also pay tribute to Mr. Gurirab for his skilful leadership during the fifty-fourth session. My delegation welcomes Tuvalu as the newest Member of the United Nations. All of us were witnesses to the historic Millennium Summit, at which an unprecedented number of heads of State and Government gathered to address the issues of the future of humanity. Many leaders reiterated that our future depends on our common efforts for humanity's betterment, and that the United Nations has always been, and continues to be, a unique forum which, by virtue of its universal character, has the mandate to solve the pressing problems of peace, security and development. In this regard, the Kyrgyz Republic favours increasing the overall effectiveness of the United Nations and recognizes that the United Nations should be a results-oriented Organization. Kyrgyzstan supports measures aimed at transforming the United Nations into an Organization with a more perfect management and a well-ordered structure, and thus better prepared to cope with both humanitarian and political crises. Emphasizing the importance of the United Nations as a global Organization of the human community, Kyrgyzstan supports the universal character of its reforms, which should include all bodies of the United Nations, including the Security Council. Confirming its position on the quantitative expansion of the Security Council in both categories, the Kyrgyz Republic favours clear, geographical representation of the countries of Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean. A decade ago Kyrgyzstan chose as its goal the establishment of a democratic open society and an economy based on free market principles. Today we can look back at our first 10 years with some satisfaction. However, the invasions of international terrorists into the southern part of the Kyrgyz Republic in 1999 and August this year have shown that the new democracies are very fragile. These events also testify to the fact that international terrorist organizations have every intention of perpetrating their criminal activities using the territories of the States of Central Asia. These actions should be seen for what they are: part of the global plan of international terrorism, with the express purpose of destabilizing a wide region. No individual country can cope with these challenges on its own. It has become quite clear that terrorism represents a threat to the whole global community, which can, and should, take adequate measures in the struggle with this evil. The struggle against terrorism should be conducted at the national, regional and international levels. Kyrgyzstan has contributed to strengthening the global consensus on combating international terrorism. Furthermore, as of this year, Kyrgyzstan is a party to three major international Conventions, and a Protocol, against terrorism. Kyrgyzstan is currently working on becoming a party to the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, adopted by the General Assembly on 15 December 1997, and the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, which was opened for signature this year. An important step towards strengthening regional security is the Summit of the heads of State of the members of the Shanghai Five, which is assuming a definitive character. The Bishkek group has been created within the framework of the Shanghai forum. This group of law-enforcement bodies and special services of the member countries conducts work on the coordination of our countries' actions in preventing and confronting all manifestations of international terrorism, extremism, separatism, the illegal drug trade, the smuggling of weapons, illegal migration and other kinds of criminal activity. The anti-terrorist centre of the Shanghai Five is currently being created, with its headquarters in Bishkek. The Bishkek meeting of the heads of State of Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan and the special envoy of the President of the Russian Federation, which was held on 20 August 2000, demonstrated the unanimous resolve of the countries of Central Asia and Russia jointly to eradicate the threat of terrorism in their territories. We believe that the efforts of our countries will be supported by the international community. The United Nations plays the most important role in this process. The Kyrgyz 17 Republic is taking action in favour of the creation of an international system of measures for controlling terrorism and other forms of extremism. In this regard, we are considering with interest Uzbekistan's initiative to establish an international counter-terrorism centre within the United Nations system. The efforts made by Kyrgyzstan and other States of Central Asia in the struggle against international terrorism, religious and political extremism and illegal drug trafficking, will not be crowned with success without the normalization of the situation in Afghanistan. We express the hope that effective measures for the radical improvement of conditions in Afghanistan will be undertaken. It is particularly important to guarantee that such forms of common activity be further developed. Furthermore, expressing its sincere aspiration to promote the prompt establishment of peace in Afghanistan and stability in the region as a whole, the Kyrgyz Republic confirms its readiness to make its territory available for the holding of a peace conference on Afghanistan under the auspices of the United Nations. In its desire to make its own contribution to the efforts of the global community in creating a safe, nuclear-free future, Kyrgyzstan is continuing to move forward with its very active participation in the creation in Central Asia of a nuclear-weapon-free zone. We welcome the assistance of the United Nations in the realization of this initiative. We express our hope that the countries of Central Asia will successfully finish the work on the drafting of a treaty that responds to the interests of the peoples of the region and of the entire international community. The issue of the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty cannot be avoided when speaking about world security. Signed in 1972, it became an important cornerstone of strategic stability. In this regard, we should reaffirm today its role in international security and our need to strictly observe it and comply with all of its provisions. The Kyrgyz Republic aspires to make a contribution to United Nations peacekeeping operations. Kyrgyzstan is currently represented in the peacekeeping missions in Sierra Leone and Kosovo. My country is going further to make efforts to expand its contribution to the peacekeeping activities of the United Nations. For Kyrgyzstan, a country with an economy in transition, the most significant problems are those of development. The key role in their resolution should be played by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), as the main body of the United Nations responsible for coordinating the provision of assistance with national development purposes. The Kyrgyz Republic welcomes the decisive steps taken by the UNDP Administrator aimed at structural reform and the easing of the heavy financial burden, which can threaten the realization of a number of national projects on democratic and economic reform. With regard to the problems of financing for development in the context of globalization and interdependence, Kyrgyzstan draws particular attention to financing for the eradication of poverty. The Secretary-General's report (A/54/2000), “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty- first century”, has identified poverty as one of the main challenges facing mankind. Shorn of all the sophisticated economic rhetoric, poverty reduction means simply the creation of new jobs and productive activities that will provide people not only with income and employment, but also with self-respect and hope for their future and the future of their children. Special measures should be taken by the international community to assist developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their efforts to develop and participate fully in the global economy. The establishment of a uniform transport system is especially important for Central Asia, which is located far from major sea routes. Kyrgyzstan is working for the development and realization of large, regionally important projects, such as the creation of a uniform transport system with access to external markets and of modern communication systems. This will not only optimize the global transport system by reducing distances and transportation time, but also provide a very powerful impetus for economic development because of the expansion of exports. Such large projects as the transport corridor between Europe, the Caucasus and Asia, known as TRACEKA, have already begun to be developed and realized. We support those provisions of the Secretary- General's report that address the issue of the building of “digital bridges”. It is obvious that the huge progress in computer science and telecommunications has radically changed the picture of the world. The 18 telecommunications “Silksat” project has been developed for the purpose of preventing the threat of information breakdown between countries. Its purpose is to facilitate the optimal entry of the countries of the Great Silk Road into the global telecommunications system. The Kyrgyz Republic, believing that stability has not only political and economic aspects, but also an environmental perspective, submitted to the Secretary- General this year its instruments of ratification and accession to the following treaties concerning environmental issues: the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change; the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution; the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade; and the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. Today the Kyrgyz Parliament is working on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, in support of the idea expressed by the Secretary-General in his millennium report that “The need to preserve biodiversity is a less self-evident conservation issue than polluted beaches, burning forests or expanding deserts. But it is as crucial, if not more so. “ (A/54/2000, para. 293) I would add mountain ecosystems to the Secretary- General's list of major ecosystem concerns. I take this opportunity to express our deep gratitude to the global community for its support of Kyrgyzstan's initiative with the adoption during the fifty-third session of resolution 53/24, proclaiming 2002 the International Year of Mountains. We express the hope that its observance will promote mobilization by the international community of economic, technical and financial resources for the sustainable development of mountainous areas. To that end, the Kyrgyz Republic offers to host in Kyrgyzstan in 2002, under the auspices of the United Nations, of an international conference on mountains. In preparation for the International Year of Mountains, we call on States and international organizations to give further attention to the problems of preserving the natural balance of mountainous ecosystems and the development of mountainous countries and regions. We commend the Food and Agriculture Organization, the leading agency for preparing for the Year, for its comprehensive concept paper on mountain issues and for its tireless efforts in that field. Kyrgyzstan supports the initiative of the Republic of Tajikistan to proclaim 2003 the year of fresh water, within the framework of the United Nations. We hope that the global community will support it. Kyrgyzstan faces problems in dealing with natural disasters and their regularly occurring consequences, especially in mountainous regions. The Kyrgyz Republic has a direct interest in the further strengthening of the international capacity to deal with accidents, in advanced specialized technologies to cope with the consequences of accidents, and in increasing the coordination of the rescue services of various countries. In conclusion, I assure the President that the Kyrgyz delegation will take a most active part in achieving our overall common purpose: to ensure the successful work of the Millennium Assembly. I join previous speakers in congratulating the President on his well-deserved election to preside over this Millennium Assembly. I am confident that, with his wisdom and consummate diplomatic skill, he will steer the Assembly to a successful conclusion. Let me also express our appreciation to Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia, for his 24 exemplary leadership as president of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, especially in the run-up to the Summit. Secretary-General Kofi Annan also deserves our unqualified tribute for his innovative leadership to prepare the United Nations for greater challenges ahead. Nepal wholeheartedly welcomes Tuvalu as the newest member of the United Nations family. We congratulate the people and Government of that Pacific island country on this happy occasion of joining the world body as an independent nation. Last week the heads of State and Government assembled in this Hall of the people to ponder measures to address the challenges of the twenty-first century, and reaffirmed their faith in the United Nations as the central instrument for promoting peace, prosperity and justice. The vision given us by the Summit's Millennium Declaration will be a guide for the global community, and particularly for the United Nations, in the days ahead. Nepal welcomes the Declaration and pledges its commitment to implement it with the utmost seriousness. My Prime Minister, addressing the Summit, expressed the view that the future will judge us by the ability of our leadership to make a difference in people's lives. We in Nepal expect the global community to work in cooperation and solidarity, in a true spirit of partnership, to change for the better the destiny of every man, woman and child around the world. As we enter a new century and a new millennium, the world is replete with paradoxes. It now has fewer inter-State wars, but numerous civil wars. Science and technology have made unprecedented advances, but diseases like AIDS still defy treatment. More people enjoy democracy and freedom, but terrorism still draws youth. The walls of frontiers are crumbling in the globalized economy, but the assertion of cultural identity has increased. The United Nations has to work in the midst of these paradoxes. The United Nations has succeeded remarkably in bringing peace in some situations and failed in others. Its involvement has eased tensions in the Central African Republic and Tajikistan. East Timor is heading into independence in relative calm. Kosovo is engaged in building democratic institutions. Israel has withdrawn its forces from southern Lebanon, a withdrawal which has vastly improved the prospects of a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. Still durable peace remains as elusive as ever. In essence, it entails a culture of peace founded on disarmament and the peaceful resolution of conflicts, as well as on measures that remove the root causes of conflict — poverty and exclusion. Lasting peace cannot be secured until nuclear weapons, which constitute the major threat to global security, are eliminated in a time-bound manner. Nor can it be achieved without the complete eradication of other weapons of mass destruction. We consider that weapons delivery systems and the so-called national missile defence systems threaten the peace as well. Small arms and light weapons have killed more people than all weapons of mass destruction combined. We must turn our backs on the guns by controlling small arms and light weapons. In this context, we welcome the proposed conference on small arms to be held in 2001. Conflicts disturb Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America. The Middle East is yet to conclude the final settlement and be at peace with itself. The Balkans are still rife with dispute, though of a lesser extent now. South Asia is in the perennial pain of low intensity war. Terrorists are on the prowl in many places, exploiting the fragility of States. As a result, thousands of innocent lives have been lost. The action of the Security Council, which is the world's sentry, has been too little, too late in many situations; it has let emerging disputes descend into full-blown conflicts. Nepal urges the Security Council to act in a timely manner, promptly, decisively and adequately to prevent conflagrations. Nepal has always been an active participant in United Nations peace operations. Nepalese peacekeepers have served with impeccable professionalism and dedication and have earned a name for themselves. Many valiant Nepalese Blue Helmets have laid down their lives in the service of world peace. The recent death of Private Devi Ram Jaishi, a Nepalese peacekeeper, while defending peace in East Timor, rekindles our commitment to abiding peace, wherein no one needs to lose a father, husband or son to violence. As host to the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific, Nepal 25 is strongly committed to enhancing the Centre's contribution to peace and disarmament, and is fully prepared to meet its obligation to house the Centre in Kathmandu. The report (A/55/305) of the panel on the United Nations peace operations provides a wealth of ideas to put peacekeeping on a sound footing and to improve peace and security in the world. My delegation agrees with the tenor of the report, and will be willing to examine it in greater detail as it comes up for closer scrutiny. A survey of the present trouble spots on earth would lead us to one unmistakable conclusion: most conflicts have poverty and exclusion at their root. All too often, we tend to treat the symptoms, not the cause. Nepal strongly believes that a durable peace will continue to elude us as long as we do not eliminate dehumanizing poverty and deprivation. Prime Minister Koirala aptly described at the Summit the vicious circle of poverty and conflict, and asked the world community to redouble its efforts to reduce poverty in search of peace. That deserves serious consideration. Today more than one fifth of humanity lives on less than a dollar a day. Poverty, illiteracy and diseases are rife in the poor countries. Unemployment among youth is rampant. A growing population finds itself scrambling over shrinking resources in a stagnant economy, which has been the case in most developing countries. The AIDS pandemic has become a major scourge of the developing world, particularly in Africa. Unscrupulous leaders, often for narrow political gains, fish in the troubled waters and incite violence, which shatters the fragile economy further, making the next cycle of violence inevitable and even more deadly. If we are ever to achieve lasting peace, we must reduce poverty and build peace from there. We subscribe to the targets, suggested by the Secretary- General in his report (A/54/2000), and adopted by the Summit, to reduce poverty and promote development in the developing countries. World conferences, one after another, have concluded that this is the only way forward. A series of their mid-term reviews has reaffirmed this conclusion; yet, sadly, nothing much has changed. In global forums, both North and South have agreed to work together for accelerated growth and development in the South, to open the markets in the rich countries to the products of the poor countries and to improve access of the developing countries to technology in the advanced countries; to relieve the poor countries of their debt obligations; and to promote social development and human rights. The global commitments are forgotten before the ink on them dries. We must narrow the gap between what we say and what we do. Most advanced countries have, for instance, sorely lagged in meeting their pledges of development assistance. More aid now means no need for it later. Nepal commends those rich countries that have met the aid targets, and urges others to do so. It is disturbing that the United Nations funds and programmes, which are the main sources of unconditional assistance, have been facing a decline in their resource base; we call on the global community to replenish their fungible resources. Although global trade has increased several times in the last few years, the developing countries — especially, the least developed ones — are losing ground as their share in world trade diminishes, due mainly to the declining terms of trade for them. Globalization has gained momentum as people, trade and services move across borders at an exceptional speed. And information technology has opened a whole new vista of communication, including e-commerce. Much as both of these phenomena have potential benefits for all, they have benefited some more than others, widening the disparity between the rich and the poor. We believe that the wealthy countries, together with the World Trade Organization, must work towards more equitable and rule-based trade to narrow the income gaps, promote equitable globalization and bridge the digital divide. Countries in the South are sinking under the unbearable burden of foreign debt. While we appreciate the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative of the rich countries, we also urge them to expedite its implementation and expand its scope to cover all the least developed countries and other countries in serious difficulties, not of their own making. Foreign direct investment has become a motor of growth for a few, but the vast majority of developing countries remain untouched by this new phenomenon. Understandably, markets drive investors in their investment decisions, yet Nepal believes that our development partners can encourage investors, through 26 a vigorous guarantee and incentive scheme, to invest in those countries that have yet to see much foreign direct investment. The unsustainable patterns of production and consumption in the rich countries, together with the population pressure in the poor countries, have taken a high toll of the environment, the common human heritage. The global agreements to promote sustainable development and to reduce greenhouse gases remain largely unfulfilled. As for Nepal, we have taken measures to preserve the environment through establishing norms, reducing pollutants, extending the forest coverage and building the green component into development projects. We are also studying the Kyoto Protocol with a view to becoming a party to it. The least developed countries, particularly the land-locked ones like Nepal, are confronted with the most formidable challenges of development. Over the years poverty in these countries has increased and their share of world trade has sharply declined. In Nepal, for instance, more than 50 per cent of the people are illiterate and live below the poverty line. Lack of access to the sea not only makes transportation difficult for us, but also deprives us of sea-based resources. These disadvantaged countries therefore need special measures to overcome their development constraints, including better transportation facilities for the land- locked countries so that they can reduce poverty and join the global economic mainstream. We believe that the conference on the least developed countries to be held in Brussels next year will open up a new vista of cooperation for their development. Nepal hopes that the high-level event on financing for development next year will find reliable means for funding development in the developing world. It must energize both North-South and South- South cooperation to fulfil shared objectives. As a functioning democracy, Nepal is committed to human rights and good governance. We have a Government that is accountable to people and pledged to serve them best. As democracy, development and human rights reinforce each other, we strive to promote them together so that people have the opportunity to realize their full potential. Nepal is a party to most human rights instruments, and we hold the view that civil and political rights are as important as economic, social and cultural rights — including the right to development, for the healthy progress of society. Therefore we oppose any selective use of human rights values to suit vested political interests. I also wish to report to the Assembly that Nepal has recently freed the remaining few thousand bonded labourers and established the National Human Rights Commission. During the Summit we also signed the optional protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, protocols on the sale of children and on children in armed conflicts. Today more than 22 million people have taken refuge outside the country of their origin, and millions are displaced within — sometimes because of natural calamities, but very often because of their Governments or because of terrorists. Nepal itself has nearly 100,000 refugees from Bhutan; their presence has created economic, social and environmental problems for us. Nepal believes that both State and non-State actors must respect the human rights of the weak and vulnerable, including those of women and children. The security of small States has remained a perennial concern for us. During the cold war the fear was of being trampled in the super-Power rivalry; in the post-cold-war era the fear is that small States will be economically, militarily or politically bullied if they act in a manner that incurs the wrath of the stronger States. It is saddening that even the United Nations is forced frequently to acquiesce to the designs of the powerful. We urge the international community to uphold the rule of law and the rich and powerful countries to respect the right of small States to sovereign independence, something they zealously guard themselves. Whenever there are problems anywhere on the length and breadth of the planet, the United Nations is called on to inspire and act, without necessarily being giving the requisite resources. Since there is no alternative to the United Nations, we must revitalize and reinforce it through comprehensive reforms so that it can rise to the challenges of changing times. It is imperative to restore the primacy of the General Assembly, which is the closest thing to a world parliament, so as to bring the will of the peoples to bear on vital global policies. The Security Council reform process has dragged on for quite a while. Although there is no quick fix, nor should one be pursued, it is time to give reforms shape and make the Council more representative in 27 composition, more transparent in function and more capable of keeping peace. The Security Council, by doing too little too late, has often proved part of the problem, rather than of the solution. We must change it. Now that the recent Summit has recognized poverty and social exclusion as the principal cause of conflict, it is critical that we focus our attention on reinforcing the Economic and Social Council on a par with the Security Council on economic matters. We must work towards making the Economic and Social Council capable of coordinating the funds and programmes within the United Nations and with the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization and other outside bodies. Nepal applauds the Secretary-General for the silent and continuous revolution at the United Nations in search of economy and excellence. Indeed, there is a constant need to regenerate and reinvent the world body to attune it to the emerging challenges in a changing world. Sadly, the United Nations has to limp from one year to the next as some of the key contributors fail to live up to their treaty obligations. We believe that the cardinal principle for apportioning financial obligation should be the capacity to pay based on one's share of world gross national product, with special responsibility on the part of the permanent members of the Security Council in peacekeeping budgets. It is morally indefensible to make the poorer countries subsidize the richer countries to keep the United Nations and its peacekeeping activities going. We call on all Member States to pay their dues in full, on time and without conditions. South Asia has one fifth of the world's people, but lacks recognition and clout commensurate with its size and potential. The only way for it to gain the place it deserves is through regional cooperation. Yet we in the region have not been able to work closely and cohesively for the greater good of our peoples. The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation is virtually at a standstill. Nepal urges all fellow South Asian countries to work collectively for the shared prosperity of our peoples. Time will not be kind to us if we fail to seize the opportunity.At the outset I should like to congratulate the President most warmly on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I take the opportunity to assure him of my delegation's full support as he carries out his difficult but uplifting task. I feel sure that with his experience and abilities as an able diplomat he will successfully guide our discussions. I should also like to extend my sincere and warm congratulations to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for the ability and authority he demonstrated throughout the fifty-fourth session. I also take this opportunity of extending once again to Secretary-General Kofi Annan our full appreciation and support for his constant efforts and resolve to find a better world in spite of the many complex challenges in the new millennium. His excellent report, “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”, is evidence of this. Mali welcomes Tuvalu to the Assembly. Its admission to membership further strengthens the universality of the Organization. More than ever before, our world aspires to peace and security and sustainable human development. In this respect, our fifty-fifth session is unprecedentedly important both historically and politically. The exceptional opportunity offered us in the Millennium Summit, which has renewed our hope in humankind, must not be lost. The Millennium Declaration demonstrates our maturity and our elevated sense of responsibility for the future of humanity. Now we must build this better world to which we all aspire. The peoples of the United Nations look to us. They are impatient. More than ever before they want to be actors determining their own future, particularly people who do not have very much, our people. They want to be actors and to benefit from globalization. That is how I see the historical and political meaning of this session, which must give effect to the dynamic now under way. Here, all together, we reaffirm the place and the role of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security and in cooperation for development, which require that the United Nations become more legitimate by being more democratic and stronger. What I say will be set against this backdrop. The maintenance of international peace and security must remain our priority. The Organization is increasingly faced with violent, deadly internal conflicts that have taken the lives of millions of civilians. It is therefore crucial to improve the system of prevention and strengthen our institution's capacity to organize and conduct operations effectively and successfully. Here I pay tribute to the report of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations, led by Lakhdar Brahimi. It is indeed a milestone in the process of trying to make the United Nations “truly credible as a force for peace” (A/55/305), so we must quickly ensure that it has positive results. As the report rightly emphasizes, United Nations intervention must be decided upon on the basis of uniform criteria, regardless of the region in which conflicts occur. The multidisciplinary nature of new United Nations peacekeeping missions demands clear and precise mandates. Mali welcomes efforts to strengthen cooperation with regional organizations in regard to maintaining peace, while respecting the competence of the Security Council. Recent events in Sierra Leone remind us of this and are a real challenge to us. Efforts by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and subregional organizations must be supported to establish regional capacity. This also applies to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which already has a peacekeeping force and will soon have an early warning system. Peacekeeping operations cannot be a permanent solution to conflicts or an answer to the underlying causes. The international community must move from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention based on a multidimensional approach, helping to save many human lives and making additional resources available for development. We must also emphasize that the effectiveness of the United Nations in peacekeeping depends largely on its capacity for prevention, crisis management and peace-building. Here I appeal to the international community to provide a stable and healthy financial base for the Organization's peacekeeping activities. 14 I pay tribute to the second Security Council summit held on 7 September, which dealt with the need to give the Council an effective role in the maintenance of international peace and security, particularly in Africa. The resolution that emerged from that summit deserves the support of us all, for it will certainly strengthen our capacity for prevention and crisis management. We must also continue work to free the world from the fear of weapons of mass destruction and face up to the threat of light weapons. With regard to nuclear non-proliferation, the indefinite extension of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) regime, the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention, the signing and ratification of many other treaties on important aspects of disarmament, and the creation of nuclear-weapon- free zones, are all important contributions to confidence-building and nuclear disarmament. Mali is fully committed to work to halt the plague of the proliferation of light weapons. I appeal for greater coordinated support for regional efforts, including support for moratoriums, respect for embargoes on arms deliveries and the strengthening of controls. The United Nations conference in 2001 on this issue must give the international community an opportunity to take appropriate steps to end the excessive destabilizing accumulation of such weapons. The conference must look at all aspects and be fully transparent. I must mention here the troubling issue of children affected by conflict, child soldiers, for the link between the proliferation of light weapons and the intolerable fate of these children is only too obvious. We have a great responsibility for them, and we must put an end to the destruction of so many hopes. The International Conference on War-affected Children, held in Winnipeg, which ended just a few days ago, was an opportunity for us all to strengthen our commitment to guarantee all children better health, school for all, both boys and girls, free from war, violence and famine. At the beginning of the third millennium one of the most urgent tasks facing humanity is to end the growing inequality between rich and poor countries. We must tackle the underlying causes of conflict — primarily their economic and social dimensions. In an international environment that is increasingly marked by globalization, continuing poverty is our most difficult challenge. The problem of the debt of the developing countries must remain our focus, because it is a major obstacle to their development. Complete cancellation of the debt is needed in the overall framework of finding a new development strategy. This new development strategy involves direct investment, unhampered access to markets through special, differential treatment, fair prices for our goods, and transfers of new technology, all of which are major factors in development. This means that financing development must remain on our agenda. My delegation welcomes the convening in 2001 of a high- level conference to deal with this issue at the intergovernmental level. The challenges of development cannot be taken up unless there is a stable international financial system. My country advocates a reform of the international financial system that takes account of the social dimension of development and does not jeopardize nations' capacity to pursue their national development objectives. Africa has understood full well that its role and place in the emerging world implies a renewed political approach of integration and unity of our continent. That is the backdrop to the creation of the African Union, which calls for a united Africa, strengthened by an integrated development of its full potential and a heightened awareness of its strategic advantages. Mali was the first country to ratify the Constitutive Act of the Union, which we are convinced is the springboard for the development of the continent, and for a responsible Africa, an Africa that counts. We must work together to eradicate poverty. We have a responsibility to guarantee all human beings a life of decency and dignity, with equal opportunities for all peoples. We can do this. It requires enhanced cooperation and international solidarity through a multilateral approach guided by the United Nations. We must promote global social development, for we believe that excessive unshared wealth is a poor kind of wealth, a wealth with no social value and therefore contrary to the essence of our life. The values that give meaning to the wealth of the world are those of democracy. Here I refer to the strong words of President Konaré, who rightly told the community of democracies conference, held in Warsaw, that the development of democracy is the basis for a world of peace, solidarity and social justice, 15 and that only democracy can allow each of us to shoulder the burden, but also the honour, of being a human being and serving humankind. “What an honour it is to be a human being!” he said. The Ministerial Conference on Security, Stability, Development and Cooperation in Africa said rightly that democracy, good governance, respect for human rights, the rights of peoples, and the rule of law, are prerequisites to achieving security, stability and development in Africa. Nothing must prevent open discussion of ideas and the promotion of political pluralism. Despite inadequacies, difficulties and sometimes violent breakdowns, the democratic process is gaining ground in Africa. A democratic Africa is becoming increasingly real, but it is still a fragile reality that must be supported and helped. Mali welcomes the adoption last June by the [Community of Democracies] of the Warsaw Declaration, advocating the strengthening of cooperation among democratic countries with a view to sharing the best practices, protecting themselves against threats to democratic processes, and promoting the emergence of a partnership forum to help democracies in transition. We must be strong against unconstitutional change of political regimes so that we can strengthen democracy. We must condemn such changes as a matter of principle and there must be consequences. President Konaré said that pressure must be credible and can only attain its goal if the international community adopts a firm consistent and constructive approach in the event of any putsch or attempted coup d'état. It must avoid encouraging those who are tempted to violate republican and democratic rules by removing any ambiguity. In this respect, the international community must be clearer and more rigorous in its approach and support the OAU which seeks to deter putsches by taking a clear position and by imposing political sanctions. Could this position not also be taken up in the United Nations? Along the same lines the establishment of the International Criminal Court with the Rome Statues would be a permanent body to act against impunity. It would allow us to try those responsible for the most horrible crimes and it would also be a tool for deterrence that could contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. Mali has already ratified the Court's Statute, thus showing that it supports the struggle against the culture of impunity and to ensure respect for human dignity. In view of the progress in achieving some settlement in the Lockerbie matter, we would call for the definitive and immediate lifting of sanctions that are unjustly inflicting suffering on the brother people of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. We must be careful about sanctions because of the humanitarian cost involved. We must use more effective, targeted sanctions. On the Korean peninsula we welcome the recent inter-Korean summit and the exchange visits by peoples of both countries. We welcome and support these initiatives which begin a direct dialogue between the parties involved and promote peace and stability in the Korean peninsula. HIV/AIDS jeopardizes the future of millions of men, women and children in Africa and it is also a threat to international peace and security. A failure to deal with this would be culpable and suicidal indifference. In this connection we fully support the proposal to convene a special session of the General Assembly on AIDS. Adapting the United Nations to the requirements of the age is absolutely essential. The challenges facing us in the political, economic and social areas force us to demonstrate creativity and realism so that we can come up with innovative and constructive suggestions and translate them into action in the true interests of our peoples. My delegation believes in the need to democratize the United Nations further, to restructure all its principal organs. Reform of the Security Council will give effect to our desire to modernize this important organ that the Charter makes primarily responsible for threats to and breaches of international peace and security. A reformed Council must be more transparent in its working methods, more democratic, more representative, more legitimate in its membership, and it must be more credible in the way it is perceived by other member States. Mali reaffirms Africa's demand for equitable distribution of seats in the two categories, pursuant to the Harare Declaration adopted by the OAU Summit of Heads of State or Government. More than ever before the human being must be the very heart of the new millennium. The peoples expect the United Nations to promote and ensure a world of progress for all, a world of peace, a world of sharing. In this respect Mali sees the Millennium 16 Declaration as the fabric we can use to build a better world. Now is the time for action.  At the outset allow me to convey to Mr. Holkeri our congratulations on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly, expressing our full confidence in him and wishing him every possible success. This session has special importance for Palestine and we hope that during its proceedings and under his leadership historic steps will be taken in our favour. I should also like to thank His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, President of the fifty-fourth session, a fighter for freedom and a fighter for peace, for his excellent leadership during the course of the past year. I would be remiss if I failed to seize the opportunity to express our special thanks to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his effective leadership and for his special interest in the situation in the Middle East and the peace process there. As we meet in the wake of the Millennium Summit, it is incumbent upon us to seek to build upon 22 its outcome beginning with implementing the Millennium Declaration and adopting it as a guide for our work in the next era. This should be the case not only with regard to globalization and future social and economic issues, but also with regard to one of the main tasks not fully achieved during the past era namely, the achievement of self-determination by peoples under colonial domination and foreign occupation. That task will not be fully achieved until Israeli occupation comes to an end and the Palestinian State has been established in accordance with international legitimacy. For us this is the step necessary to place ourselves side by side with other member States on the road to development, democracy and prosperity and so that we may be allowed to carry our small share of responsibility towards the international community and its future tasks. As President Yasser Arafat mentioned in his address to the Millennium Summit, the Palestine Central Council met to consider the situation as the agreed date between the Palestinian and Israeli sides for reaching a final status agreement, 13 September 2000, approached; that date was also the deadline of the agreed-upon extension of the five-year interim period that originally ended on 4 May 1999. The Palestine Central Council addressed this situation with a high level of responsibility towards our people and towards the peace process and took a difficult decision seeking a balance between the natural and historic rights of the Palestinian people to their State, based on the partition resolution 181 (II) and in accordance with the Declaration of Independence of 1988 and our right to establish this State at the end of the interim period, on the one hand, and preserving what some have called the last chance for the peace process and for reaching an agreement between the two sides through an additional extension and the decision to continue the negotiations for the next five or six weeks on the other. The Council thus decided to delay the establishment of the State and at the same time mandated the Executive Committee and the presidency of the Palestine National Council and the Legislative Council to take the necessary steps in this regard, including completion of the constitutional declaration and laws for presidential and parliamentary elections, as well as the submission of an application for membership for the State of Palestine in the United Nations, followed by a report on these steps to the Central Council no later than 15 November 2000, the anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. That decision means first and foremost our desire and commitment to reach an agreement with the Israeli side if that side is truly ready for that. Secondly, it also means the agreement by the Palestinian side to postpone the establishment of the State, not only until the end of the transitional period and its extension, but until the end of the realistic opportunity for achieving a possible final agreement at the present time. We believe that no one can expect us to go beyond that and accept the continuation of the present transitional situation that is impossible to endure. We further believe that all States, including those that have advised us to postpone, will understand this and will thus be ready to provide the necessary support for our steps, including support for the application of Palestine for membership in the United Nations. The assumption of power by the current Israeli Government was coupled with a chorus of positive voices that led to increased hope for rapid and honest implementation of the agreements signed by the two sides aimed at achieving a final agreement in the agreed time. We honestly wanted to believe this and dealt with that Government positively and with full commitment to the agreements. But the stubborn realities began to impose themselves on the ground, regardless of the wishes and the artificial positive voices. The current Government did not implement any of the provisions of these agreements except those provisions that the former Government had explicitly committed itself to in implementation of the Wye River Memorandum of October 1998. This Government has not carried out one centimetre of redeployment more than Mr. Netanyahu had committed himself to, and it has also failed to carry out the third redeployment. Illegal settlements, which are destructive to the peace process, have continued, even in Jabal Abu Ghneim, which was the reason the General Assembly convened its tenth emergency special session. A number of other illegal measures and practices have also continued, creating a negative and tense climate. Amidst all of that, final status negotiations started and we witnessed Israeli foot-dragging and procrastination that we could not understand and that has led to more doubts and tension. Then came the Camp David Summit, for which thorough preparation was needed before being convened, something that was not accepted by the Israeli side. Despite everything, the Summit represented a very important opportunity to move into 23 a new, serious phase of negotiations through the personal involvement of President Bill Clinton and his Secretary of State and the rest of his team. We highly appreciate all the efforts made for the success of the Summit. For our part, we spared no effort in the same direction. However, we believe that Israel's lack of readiness to comply with the terms of reference of the peace process prevented the success of such efforts. In the wake of the Summit a campaign was launched by some parties and some biased media organizations to absolve the Israeli side of its responsibility and to place undue pressure on the Palestinian side. For example, some say that the Israeli side progressed from its original positions during the negotiations more than the Palestinian side. That is factually incorrect, in addition to being the wrong yardstick to apply. It is incorrect because the Palestinian side has progressed from its original position more than the Israeli side, but that happened with the start of the peace process and the acceptance of the bases of such a process. The Palestinian side has accepted, despite the historic injustice, establishing its State in accordance with the partition plan, which gave us less than half of mandated Palestine, and has accepted as the basis for settlement Security Council resolution 242 (1967), which gives us less than a quarter of mandated Palestine. Is there a more momentous concession than this? Is it possible to forget that and only look at positions taken during the Camp David negotiations, regardless of the past? It is also the wrong yardstick to apply because the appropriate yardstick should be the closeness of the sides to the agreed basis of the peace process and their commitment to Security Council resolution 242 (1967), the implementation of which is the goal of the peace process, and not the extent of their movement from original positions, especially if such positions were illegal and irrational. Needless to say, the Palestinian side has fully adhered to this resolution and has never attempted to circumvent it, whereas the Israeli side has never stopped pursuing positions violating that resolution and aiming to usurp more and more Palestinian land and rights. Let us have another look at the positions of the parties on some specific issues, so that all may be aware of the details of the situation. With regard to Jerusalem, the first kiblah and the third of the holy sanctuaries and the cradle of Jesus Christ, the other side claims that it made substantial concessions while the Palestinians did not. It also claims that we have not shown enough sensitivity towards the holy sites pertaining to Judaism. All of this is incorrect. The signed agreements state that Jerusalem will be an issue for negotiation, which means the whole of Jerusalem — occupied East Jerusalem and West Jerusalem, which is under de facto Israeli control. For our part, we have accepted that West Jerusalem shall be under Israeli sovereignty and become the capital of Israel. We have demanded the end of the occupation of East Jerusalem so that it may come under Palestinian sovereignty and be the capital of Palestine. We have accepted that the city shall be open, and have accepted all kinds of guarantees for freedom of conscience, worship and access to all holy places under Palestinian sovereignty. In return for such flexibility, Israel is not satisfied with recognized sovereignty over West Jerusalem, but seeks also to usurp parts of occupied East Jerusalem. With regard to the Jewish holy places, we fully respect their sacredness, and Islam recognizes the three monotheistic religions — Judaism, Christianity and Islam — and all their prophets. Thus, we have shown every possible flexibility, even with regard to those places on lands in occupied East Jerusalem, to which resolution 242 (1967) is applicable. We have accepted that the Western Wall of Al-Haram Al-Sharif, which is known to the Arabs and Muslims as Al-Buraq Wall and to the Israelis and Jews as the Wailing Wall, shall be placed under Israeli control, bearing in mind its sacredness to Judaism and consistent with the situation since the British mandate on Palestine. In return for our flexibility Israel not only seeks sovereignty over the Western Wall, but further challenges our sovereignty over Al-Haram Al-Sharif and seeks to maintain some form of sovereignty over it, something that will not be accepted by any Palestinian, Arab or Muslim leader, not now and not in the future. We have recently taken a major additional step in this regard by indicating our readiness to accept a certain mechanism for ensuring that no excavations are conducted under Al-Haram Al-Sharif, or even our readiness to accept Muslim sovereignty over Al-Haram Al-Sharif through the Al-Quds Committee of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). This represents the utmost that can be done in terms of dealing with an Arab and Muslim trust over Palestinian land. 24 With regard to another important issue, namely, Palestinian refugees and their rights, the Palestinian side has upheld their rights in accordance with international law, like any other refugees in the world, and in accordance with relevant United Nations resolutions, in particular resolution 194 (III), including their right to return and to compensation. At the same time, we have shown our readiness to accept specific implementation mechanisms to be agreed upon. In return for our flexibility, Israel refuses to recognize its responsibility for this human tragedy and refuses to recognize the rights of the refugees, including their right to return, and wants only to compensate them, and even that at the expense of others and not in its capacity as the party that seized their lands and properties. Yesterday the Assembly heard Israel's spokesman repeat what has been said, attempting not only to deny Israel's responsibility but also denying the individual property of the refugees, more than 5.5 million dunams of land, legal and full property of individuals. The Acting Foreign Minister attempted to put an end to that in an address to the Assembly. The third important issue is that of settlements and borders. We have affirmed that settlements are illegal and must not be built on Palestinian lands. Furthermore, Israel must withdraw to the armistice lines of 1949, which are commonly known as the lines of 4 June 1967. At the same time, and in order to resolve some of the demographic problems illegally created by Israel, we have shown our readiness to accept changes in the border lines on the basis of full reciprocity. In return for such flexibility, Israel still attempts to appropriate more land and to annex other parts of occupied Palestinian territory. However, we generally feel, or at least hope, that the differences on this and the remaining issues are less sharp than the differences I indicated regarding the two previous ones, and it is hoped this might signify a real change in the Israeli position regarding all issues. We have not lost hope yet. We are still committed to the peace process and to serious and continuous negotiations in the coming weeks. Yet this morning we were surprised to hear the spokesman of the Israeli Government announce that the negotiations are suspended. We hope that the Israeli positions are tactical and that the Israeli side will in the final analysis respect its commitment to the bases of the peace process. We want an agreement, an agreement that will remove us from the cycle of confrontation and that will carry forward both sides, and the entire region and its future generations, to a new era. Such an agreement must be balanced, reasonable and based on international law, the basis of the peace process. This requires a continuation of the necessary efforts and unbiased support of the two cosponsors of the peace process, particularly the United States of America, other concerned parties in the region, the European Union and interested parties throughout the world. We are ready and look forward to such a historic agreement between the two States, Palestine and Israel. During the Millennium Summit much was said about the United Nations and its past and future role. We wish to add that the United Nations is indispensable when it comes to the question of Palestine and the situation in the Middle East. We have always emphasized the permanent responsibility of the United Nations for the question of Palestine until it is effectively resolved in all its aspects, and while we always called for more United Nations involvement in the Middle East peace process, others have attempted to exclude and neutralize it. We are convinced that in the coming decisive period the role of the United Nations will become more important, no matter what the circumstances. If we were, God forbid, to arrive at a dead end despite all our strenuous efforts for the success of the peace process, then we would come to the United Nations and expect to receive its protection and support. We will work to obtain membership and to contribute to the resolutions of the United Nations, the established committees and the relevant programmes so that all might provide an additional boost for the achievement of our people's legitimate rights, including their right to the establishment of their independent State with Jerusalem as its capital, after such a long period of trial and tribulation. If our hope is fulfilled and we are successful in reaching a final agreement with our neighbours, then we expect that the need for the United Nations and its organs will be greater. The United Nations responsibility in all its forms will continue until the end of the implementation period and there will be a need to legitimize some aspects of the agreement and perhaps to complement them. There will also be a need for United Nations assistance during the implementation period with regard to many aspects, in particular with regard to Palestinian refugees, including the continuation of the work of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 25 Near East. We will then propose the specific reactivation of the United Nations Conciliation Commission for Palestine, which was established by resolution 194 (III) and is composed of the United States, France and Turkey, and the use of the records of the Commission related to land ownership in Palestine. These records were updated by the United Nations Secretariat, in cooperation with the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, and can now be used. In any case, the need for the United Nations will increase, and we call for preparedness for that eventuality. There are other aspects of the Arab-Israeli conflict that must be resolved in order for a comprehensive peace to be achieved in the region. In this context, we reaffirm the necessity of reactivating the Syrian-Israeli track of the peace process as well as the need for Israel to accept the principle of full withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Arab Golan to the lines of 4 June 1967. We declare our solidarity with our sister country, Syria, and support its just demands, including Israeli adherence to the terms of reference of the peace process. We also express our great happiness at the Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon. We congratulate the brotherly Lebanese people on the liberation of their territories and support their other demands regarding the achievement of peace between Lebanon and Israel. In this context, we affirm our agreement with regard to rejecting the resettlement of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon and the need for them to return to their homes, and, until then, we expect them to benefit from normal living conditions. With regard to Arab national security and the principle of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, we reaffirm the need for Israel to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and to put all its nuclear facilities under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency. We also support attempts aimed at establishing a region free from weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East and believe this to be an essential condition for establishing a new reality in the region, which we all seek to achieve. In the context of the wider Arab region, the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people is still a source of real concern for us all. We call for a speedy end to their suffering. We also call for the total lifting of sanctions imposed on sisterly Libya and brotherly Sudan. We also call for the peaceful settlement of the issue of the three islands between the United Arab Emirates and Iran in a way that preserves the rights of the United Arab Emirates in these islands. We also express our happiness for the recent steps taken in Somalia and express our hope that the stability and reconciliation process will continue. We reaffirm the need for efforts to be made to resolve problems everywhere, including, inter alia, those of Cyprus, of the great African continent, particularly the Horn of Africa, of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and of some of the surrounding countries. The resolution of such problems will represent an important contribution towards placing that continent on the road to development and progress. Before concluding I must once again express our deep thanks to our brothers and friends everywhere, particularly to fraternal Arab countries, Islamic countries and non-aligned countries, as well as to all other friends for their principled and continuous support. Let this year be the year that will bring to an end the historical injustice that has befallen our people, and let it be the beginning of a new life in the Middle East for all States, peoples and future generations.I am conscious that the central problem for all of us when we rise to speak to the General Assembly is that there are too many issues of concern to hope to address them all in one speech. There is no shortage of challenges to the United Nations as we meet for the first time in a new century to debate the issues of a modern world. It is a world united by the new technologies of communication. We have never had so much opportunity to share the know-how for economic growth. Yet our world has never before been so divided between rich and poor. In the year ahead, we must make sure that all the United Nations agencies and its international financial institutions work together in a coordinated way to promote development and to reduce debt. It is also a world bound together by growth in trade between our countries. But we failed at Seattle to make further progress on removing the obstacles to that trade. In the year ahead, we must launch a world trade development round which is fair to those countries whose main exports are agricultural rather than industrial. It is a world which faces a common threat to its global climate. We are each learning the alarming rate at which that climate is changing as the result of our own actions. Before the end of the year, we must try to reach agreement at the sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to bring into effect the Kyoto measures to stabilize climate change. Each of these is an important challenge. Each of them is a strategic priority for our work programme for the coming year. This morning, though, I wish to focus my remarks on the central theme of the Millennium Summit and of this fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. How do we equip the United Nations with the capacity in peacekeeping that matches the real demands for it around our world? In his opening address, the Secretary-General invited us to give a swift response to the Brahimi report on peacekeeping (A/55/305). The United Kingdom is happy to respond to that invitation by offering our support for the report's conclusions and pledging our commitment to its implementation. The report begins by reminding us that the United Nations was founded, in the words of its Charter, to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war'. Too often, though, we have failed to save those who needed our protection from the suffering, the pain and the terror of brutal conflict. We must be frank in facing up to those failures if we are to learn their lessons. And we must be determined to improve the capacity of this Organization to keep the peace if we are to succeed in the future. I want to set out six tasks which we must address if we are not to repeat past failures. First, we must equip the United Nations with a more effective and more rapid capacity for peacekeeping. In the space of about one year, the number of troops on United Nations peacekeeping missions around the globe has trebled. The United Kingdom has forces operating in eight different theatres where peacekeeping has been authorized by the United Nations. 8 But it is not the new size of our peacekeeping effort that demands changes. It is the different character of the peacekeeping challenge. It used to be the case that United Nations forces were typically deployed to observe a ceasefire between two States both of which wanted to end the fighting. Today, our peacekeepers are typically deployed within States, not between them, and often where one or more parties to the conflict is not seriously committed to peace. In those circumstances, United Nations peacekeepers need a robust mandate. As the Brahimi report puts it, where one side is violating a peace agreement, treating both sides equally can amount to complicity with evil. United Nations peacekeepers who witness violence against civilians should be presumed to be mandated to halt it. But if those peacekeepers are to act with determination, then we must equip them with the capacity to do so. The United Nations needs a Headquarters unit capable of rapid deployment within a few weeks, not a few months, of a Security Council resolution. And each of us must develop the number of troops who are trained in the principles and practice of peacekeeping whom we can commit to the United Nations. That is why the United Kingdom has proposed a permanent staff college for United Nations peacekeeping. The United Kingdom has offered to host such a resource for United Nations peacekeeping, if that is welcome to other members of the General Assembly. The second task is to be more rapid and more imaginative in tackling tension before it results in conflict. By definition, any mission to restore peace is an admission of failure to prevent conflict. As well as coping with the consequences of conflict, we need to address the root causes of conflict: poverty, bad governance and the denial of freedom or of minority rights. I welcome the Secretary-General's intention to submit a report on conflict prevention early next year. It will be a natural companion to the Brahimi report. I hope it can enable us to develop an early warning system which will alert us to potential conflict and give our agencies the chance to offer help before it becomes a real conflict. Too often, internal conflict is fuelled by the external demand for the illicit trade in diamonds or the evil trade in drugs. Measures to ban conflict diamonds from international sale or to defeat the drugs barons must be key elements of any comprehensive strategy of conflict prevention. The third task is to take tighter control of the flows of arms which supply conflict. As an international community, we have put much effort into controlling weapons of mass destruction. The good progress we all made at the Review Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) underlines the importance which each of us attaches to this strategic issue. The United Kingdom has ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, has reduced by half its planned strategic nuclear warheads, and has supplied greater transparency on our nuclear arsenal. Yet, over the past decade, the true weapons of mass destruction have been small arms, which have killed 5 million people in conflicts around the globe. Overwhelmingly, those killed were civilians rather than soldiers. And, overwhelmingly, they were killed in countries which do not manufacture firearms. We must make a success next year of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in all its Aspects. We need to reach agreement to mark firearms at the point of production so that they can be traced. The United Kingdom would support at that conference the presumption that military firearms should not be licensed for sale other than to legitimate Government bodies. And we must seek the help of the international economic agencies, including the World Bank, to fund and to reward with development aid the surrender of firearms. The fourth task is to provide the United Nations with the civilian resources to promote reconciliation and reconstruction. In Kosovo, and again now in East Timor, we have learned that the end of conflict is only the starting point. When the troops have brought peace, we need judges and administrators to bring justice and development. The peacekeepers must be followed by peace-builders. In particular, we need to muster the civilian police who can establish law and order in place of violence and conflict. I was astonished to read in the Brahimi report that this mighty international organization has only nine civilian police on its Headquarters staff, administering 8,600 civilian police in the field around the world. I am confident that every one of them is the very best, in keeping with the tradition of United Nations staff. But if we are serious about succeeding on the ground, we need a more serious back-up at the centre. Four times in the past 9 decade, the United Nations has been called upon to undertake a transitional civilian administration. We need a better, permanent, capacity here at the centre to support our operations in the field. The fifth task is to enforce the international law on crimes against humanity. If we are to have international justice, we must have an international court. The United Kingdom has given strong support to the International Criminal Court, and we have just published our draft legislation to ratify the treaty setting up such a Court. The International Criminal Court will send a strong warning to any future tyrants that they will be called to account for their crimes before the bar of international justice. It will be one of the most powerful advances for human rights since we agreed 50 years ago to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And finally, we must strengthen the authority of the United Nations. In 50 years, there has been no new permanent member of the Security Council. The Security Council needs to represent the world as it is in this century, not the world as it was in the middle of the last century. It needs to be made representative of the 100 or more countries that have joined as Members since the Security Council was set up. The United Kingdom supports a doubling of the permanent membership to include Germany, Japan and three countries from each of the continents of Asia, Africa and Latin America. We also want more members among those who are elected, in order that the Security Council can be more representative of the General Assembly. For seven years, we have been debating this question. It is becoming an issue of credibility for the United Nations. How can we pretend to end conflict if we cannot end this disagreement among ourselves? A more representative, modern Security Council would speak with more authority when it challenges those who breach the peace. I have been frank about where we must improve our capacity for peacekeeping and strengthen our will to halt conflict. But we should not underrate the immense achievement of the United Nations. Our Charter begins by recalling the untold sorrow to mankind inflicted by two world wars. It was a Charter written by ministers and officials determined to end war between States. And in this they were remarkably successful. External aggression between States is now unusual. But the benefits have been unevenly shared. The industrialized nations have enjoyed half a century of peace. That has provided the security and good order in which their prosperity has advanced at a rate without precedent in history. Yet, in the same half century, people elsewhere in the globe have lived through violence and conflict which have broken their human rights and impoverished their standards of living. It is largely poor countries that now experience the scourge of war which our Charter sought to banish. The challenge for the United Nations is to ensure that the peace and security which have been enjoyed by many Member States are shared by all. None of us can prevent humanitarian catastrophe by acting alone. But this United Nations can, if we act together. The Brahimi report tells us what we need to do. As an organization, we publish many reports. Nobody could fault the capacity of the United Nations to produce reports. But we are not always as good at implementing them. Let us make sure that the Brahimi report does not gather dust on library shelves but is put into practice before we meet again next year. Let us show the determination and the conviction that the right in our Charter to be preserved from war is an equal right for the people of all our nations, large and small, rich and poor.Allow me first of all to congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election as President of the Millennium session of the General Assembly. The Polish delegation expresses its satisfaction that the presidency of this session has been entrusted to an eminent statesman from Finland, a country with which we have ties of friendship and cooperation based on common values and aspirations. He may count on my delegation's full cooperation in the performance of his important tasks. 29 My congratulations also to the Assembly's outgoing President, Minister Theo-Ben Guribab, for the outstanding commitment and skill he displayed during his presidency. On behalf of Poland, allow me also to welcome to the United Nations the new Member, Tuvalu. I should also like to express my appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the outstanding manner in which he has demonstrated his qualities of leadership and good judgement, and in particular for his inspirational report, “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. Although the start of the new millennium is still a few months away, a new era actually began a little earlier. It was marked by the demise of the world's ideological polarization into East and West and division into three worlds, and by the emergence of the world economy. Humankind enters this new era, the age of globalization, with the immense opportunity to expand the spheres of freedom and prosperity brought by the triumph of democracy and advances in technology, especially the achievements of the information revolution. Behind us we have left the twentieth century, an age of extremes and profound contradictions. It was an age of man's triumphs and downfalls, alternating setbacks and advances in the evolution of the international community. On the one hand, we have witnessed of amazing scientific, technological and material progress, the spread of human rights and democracy and the development of universal international institutions. On the other hand, it was also an age of the most horrendous dramas in contemporary human history, of the tragedies, atrocities and devastation of two world wars, of the utmost contempt for the human being, and of genocide and blind violence perpetrated by utopias intent on thus building “brave new worlds”. The Polish poet and Nobel laureate in literature in 1980, Czeslaw Milosz, wrote in The Witness of History that the twentieth century's original contribution to the history of the human race was “the near disappearance of the concept of values” and concluded: “The extermination camp became the central fact of the century.” Nonetheless, the end of this century seems to bring more optimism. This is not only the assessment of the Foreign Minister of reborn and democratic Poland. It is also the personal feeling of a man who, having been a prisoner of two totalitarian systems, the Nazi and the Communist — incidentally, I am, I think, the only Foreign Minister to hold this “distinction” — has known the sufferings specific to this century, and it reflects the hope ingrained in human nature. But as well as destruction and hatred, I have also been, since as long ago as the days of the Holocaust, a witness of and participant in a struggle for the dignity and the rights of the human being and the process of my country's recovery of independence and arduous construction of democracy. My history of active participation in transforming the conditions of human existence, in its individual and collective dimension, began in the yard of the concentration camp of Auschwitz. Later, enlistment in the Polish resistance and, in particular, participation in assistance for the inhabitants of the Warsaw Ghetto. Next, the unimaginable inferno of the Warsaw uprising in 1944 and the death, as it seemed at the time, of Warsaw. Finally, the end of the war. I remember the joy and hope with which we greeted the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They gave me strength when I found myself having to survive the ordeal of years in Communist jails. From them, too, I drew inspiration on the journey that eventually led me and my political friends to Gdansk, the city for which our allies were unwilling to die in 1939 and in which the next great turning-point in the history of the past century was launched in 1980. Indeed, two weeks ago we celebrated in Poland the twentieth anniversary of the foundation of the Solidarity movement, the Polish revolution that was at first suppressed at gunpoint by the totalitarian regime but that, becoming an emblem of hope, weathered repression and an unfavourable set of international circumstances. The rebirth of Solidarity in 1989 and the Polish Round Table opened the way to historic changes, including the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Communist bloc, and in consequence set in motion a sweeping transformation of the international system. Having been involved for over 60 years in these processes, as a writer, historian, university lecturer and, currently, Foreign Minister, I feel — if the Assembly will forgive the personal tone of this confession — as if I were a living, physical symbol of humanity's stormy voyage through the history of the past century. 30 But let me also say that the traumatic experiences of my nation have made the Poles exceptionally aware of the value of peace and any manifestations of good that are lastingly present in international life. Making our contribution to the positive culmination of the twentieth century and working towards the revitalization of the message of the United Nations, and thereby opening up new prospects for the Organization, we see ourselves as full and active members of the global family of nations. A further source of the sense of security and confidence that fortifies us in this role within the United Nations is that we have become a member of the North Atlantic Alliance and are forging ever-closer ties with the European Union, which we expect to join in the near future. Bolstered by our accomplishments in the past decade, having reclaimed our place on the international stage, we are eager to participate together with other nations in this generally perceptible shift towards values. A yearning for a world imbued with moral values is visible in all civilizations and religions. This is especially evident in the waning of the unlawful use of force in international life. The recent outbreaks seen here and there are an echo of divisions and conflicts that are fading along with the twentieth century. This positive tendency can be observed in Europe, in the Middle East, in North-East Asia and in other parts of the world. Contributing to it is a growing respect for human rights and appreciation of the economic and social factors involved in their full achievement. Against this background, the Polish people hold in great esteem the peace mission of John Paul II, the Pope from Poland — a Pope whose pontificate, like the whole course of his life, personifies, beacon-like, an unwavering adherence to values and, through the symbol of open arms, understanding and reconciliation. The Pope's position not only fills us with pride but is also a model for our international behaviour. The bearings guiding our actions, including here in the United Nations, are tolerance, openness and respect for the dignity and rights of the individual, minorities and whole nations. We are determined to oppose every kind of discrimination and prejudice, whether on ethnic, national, religious or social grounds. In this cause, Poland is and will continue to be a staunch ally of the United Nations. We are entering the twenty-first century with the immense potential generated by the newest phase of the revolution in science, technology, mass communications, the opening up of frontiers, the development of inter-societal ties and the universalization of democracy and human rights. Most of these phenomena are encompassed by the common term “globalization”. For a number of years, assessment of their consequences has, especially in the wake of regional financial crises, been growing increasingly contentious. Sometimes they are treated as a force of nature sweeping all before them, as morally neutral processes that can do good or harm and that eventually will bring prosperity to all peoples or be a source of crises, inequality and instability within nations and on an international scale. Globalization has unquestionably beneficial effects in the sphere of trade, production, the spread of modern technologies and capital flows. The liberalization of international trade, the growth of world output and the prosperity of societies should bring a more equitable sharing of the benefits of globalization. At the same time, there are looming dangers, harmful side-effects and new problems whose scale and nature we are not yet capable of identifying correctly. The challenge facing us is to work together to steer these processes in such a way that it is their blessings that are mainly felt by humanity, and that they are prevented from creating new divides in the world. We must do everything in our power, including here at the United Nations, to ensure that these processes mean the globalization of good. Faced with the opportunities, but also the threats, presented by the evolution of human civilization at the threshold of the third millennium, the international community needs to organize around a question of basic importance to the direction of its future development. That was the purpose of the Government of Poland when it decided, together with the Governments of Chile, India, the Republic of Korea, Mali, the United States and the Czech Republic, to initiate broader international collaboration in the cause of consolidation and promotion of democracy in the world. In this gathering there is no need to argue the virtues of democracy. No one disputes the positive interrelationship between democracy and human rights, internal and international peace, economic growth and prosperity and better realization of the principles of justice and solidarity. At the same time, we cannot ignore the threats to democracy, which are primarily of 31 an internal nature. They affect countries in the process of democratic transition as well as so-called mature democracies. They cover a wide spectrum, ranging from poverty and economic underdevelopment, ethnic conflicts and organized crime to corruption and the exclusion of whole sectors of public life, notably finance and the media, from democratic control, which saps the foundations of democracy and demeans it in the eyes of society. Democracy, its condition and prospects, can and should be no less a legitimate subject of international debate and cooperation than the other great issues of our times: human rights, disarmament, the environment and the like. Imbued with this belief, we embarked, in conjunction with a number of other States, on organizing in June of this year an international conference, “Towards a Community of Democracies”. A total of 107 States accepted our invitation. Speaking at the Warsaw conference, Secretary-General Kofi Annan said, “One of the greatest challenges to humankind in the new century will be the struggle to make the practice of democracy equally universal. In that struggle, nations in which democracy is already well established will need to be vigilant in preserving that achievement”. The participants in the conference adopted the Warsaw Declaration, in which they reaffirmed their commitment to its catalogue of democratic values and standards. They also undertook to pursue informal cooperation to strengthen and promote democracy in various international organizations. For obvious reasons, the key question will be what can be done to advance this cause in the framework of and through the United Nations. Let me take this opportunity to recall another Polish initiative that also falls within the current of responses to the harmful side effects of globalization processes. In 1996, at the General Assembly, Poland submitted a proposal to frame a universal legal instrument, the first of its kind, that could help us combat one of the greatest dangers of our times: international organized crime. At this session the text of that Convention will be presented to the General Assembly for its approval. The central issue of successive international agendas is security. Though preserving international peace and security is the main purpose of the United Nations, States have also looked to other ways to ensure their security: through creation of balance-of- power systems, arms races and even the use of force. Today we are trying to achieve such goals by different means. Anachronistic doctrines of geopolitics and spheres of influence are now fading into history. The Roman maxim, “If you want peace, prepare for war” — Si vis pacem para bellum — is becoming irrelevant. Nevertheless, the problem of security remains a pressing one, as the numerous conflicts and humanitarian dramas in various parts of the world make all too clear. In addition to crises and wars inherited from the old international order, we are plagued by conflicts which spring from poverty, ethnic and religious strife or the atrophying of States' ability to perform their basic functions: providing the people living within their borders with internal security and decent conditions of existence. This new situation, in which security depends not so much on purely military factors as on social stability, on observance of human rights and the rights of national minorities or on access to drinking water, enhances the role of the United Nations, which can draw on unique experience and a wide range of non- military instruments for ensuring security. Fuller involvement by the United Nations in the security sphere as provided in the mandate deriving from its Charter requires determined continuation of reform of the Organization in this field, starting with a practical redefinition of the role of the Security Council that would extend its purview to non-traditional threats to international security. The Security Council must do what, in accordance with the Charter, is expected of it by Members and respond more decisively to signs of budding conflicts or humanitarian disasters. The Kosovo drama, like many others, could have been avoided if Security Council members had displayed sufficient imagination and resolve at the right time. That would also have enabled us to avoid last year's arguments and controversies over the issue of humanitarian intervention. The inability of the Security Council to respond robustly in such situations will open the way to further precedents for sidestepping the Charter and United Nations mechanisms in the security sphere and could thereby lead to disintegration of this system. 32 The success and effectiveness of the proposals and recommendations contained in the Secretary- General's Millennium report will depend on the determination of the Security Council as the system's lynch-pin. Poland endorses the report's perspective on international problems and approach to tackling them. We are in favour of stronger legal instruments for stabilizing the international order; this refers to situations involving threats to security and use of force, to respect for human rights and to arms control and limitation. In all these areas we must preserve the primacy of the United Nations system over regional or unilateral measures, which are acceptable only in the exceptional circumstances in which the Security Council and United Nations mechanisms are found wanting. In this context I should also like to pay tribute to the Brahimi report on United Nations peace operations. As a long-standing and very active participant in United Nations peacekeeping missions, Poland is in favour of streamlining the machinery for conducting them — from decision-making to presence in the field — and ensuring their greater effectiveness by widening and making more adequate the array of instruments with which such operations are equipped. This means both the possibility of the use of force by the units deployed in an operation and a wide spectrum of peace-building and post-conflict rehabilitation capabilities. I refer also to action aimed at advancing human rights and laying the groundwork for democracy in the institutional and civil society sphere. In our view, in further work on the recommendations of the report, greater emphasis should be put on the question of cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations, an area in which lie many hitherto untapped opportunities, as well on as a more creative approach to conflict prevention. We no longer seek foundations for a future international order in military capacities, but to an ever greater degree we are trying to build it on fair and respected laws. The maxim Si vis pacem para iustitiam which adorns the facade of the Palace of Justice in The Hague no longer has quite the idealistic ring that it had several decades ago. But we are also aware that though administering justice through law is an indispensable condition of peace, it is not yet a sufficient condition. Our times, in which conflicts and instability are often a result of poverty and underdevelopment, require the application of a new maxim, a contemporary paraphrase of the old ones: Si vis pacem para solidaritatem. Here, we are entering the domain of the international economic order, in particular its financial and trade dimensions. This is a sphere in which the United Nations system must be much more active than hitherto or run the risk of being sidelined by the new and powerful non-State actors in international life. The recently fashionable, if ill-defined, formula of global governance should at the practical level be developed in the United Nations framework or in concert with, not parallel or counter to, the United Nations. First and foremost, it is essential to intensify international efforts to promote stability and predictability in international economic relations, which includes strengthening the new international financial architecture of a system and institutions based on transparent rules. What is also needed — and this is a point that clearly emerges from the reports of the main international organizations, the Secretary-General's report included — is a new approach to development. One has to agree with those who maintain that there is no greater challenge today than global sustainable development and that United Nations success or failure will be crucial to the outcome of efforts by the international community. One of the key challenges facing the international community as it enters the twenty-first century is poverty reduction, especially in the least developed countries. Success in this field requires wide application of the principle of solidarity in international economic relations. If globalization is to be harnessed to development and poverty reduction, more is needed than just better coordination among the organizations active in the socio-economic sphere. It is also necessary to stop perceiving development and poverty reduction solely as technical problems. To attack them effectively, there has to be a coherent policy that comprises not only financial and technical assistance but also substantive measures in the sphere of education, culture, good governance, rule of law, democratic institutions, etc. International solidarity will not deliver results in the shape of building up the production capacities of the poorest countries and enabling them to reap benefits from globalization processes without serious efforts on the part of these countries themselves, in 33 particular rational economic policies and the ability to make effective use of development aid. Poland is joining in international endeavours to further effective management of international interdependence, with an appropriate role played by the United Nations system and a key role by international financial institutions in the organization of international economic and financial cooperation. In the framework of a poverty reduction strategy, we are participating in the implementation of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. Poland also supports the European Union proposal that World Trade Organization (WTO) members, including in the first place the industrialized countries, should within a year of the conclusion of a new trade round abolish import tariffs and quotas on basically all exports from the least developed countries. It is precisely in order to stress what we believe to be the crucial significance of solidarity in maintaining peace, security and solidarity throughout the world that the Polish Government, mindful of the experiences of our recent history, will — together with a few other countries — propose that the United Nations proclaim 31 August as “International Solidarity Day”; it is the date of the establishment of the free and independent Solidarity trade union in Poland in 1980. The qualitatively new feature of the situation at the turn of the century is not only the extent but the greater complexity of the tasks facing our Organization. Greater still are the expectations associated with it of individuals, diverse groups, nations and the whole international community. It is essential that we not only understand the nature of the new problems but also deal more effectively with the matters that have to be tackled by the United Nations, whether or not they form an explicit part of the mandate deriving from the Charter. In roles ranging from preserving peace to human rights, and from development to protection of the natural environment, the United Nations is irreplaceable. It is precisely because of the nature of threats such as environmental degradation in the contemporary world that a speedy and comprehensive response by the United Nations is needed. The sense of “one earth, one human race” requires solidarity-driven and responsible action by all the system's participants. The tasks and expectations associated with the United Nations require that its role in international relations be strengthened. The system must continue to be the legal and institutional infrastructure of the international order. No other formula provides sufficient legitimization for the performance of this role. The United Nations Charter and Organization are indispensable, in the first place, to small and medium- sized countries. Marginalization of the United Nations would lead to anarchy, in which the only law would be the will of the great Powers and increasingly powerful non-State actors. The extremely positive trends towards involvement of non-governmental organizations in United Nations activities — a trend steadfastly championed by Poland — must remain consonant with the intergovernmental character of the Organization, whose universal mandate stems from the legitimacy of the States which are its Members. Within this system we must, however, be mindful not only of the rights of States but also of their obligations. Accountability does not apply only to individuals, though here we are in favour of prompt entry into force of the treaty establishing the International Criminal Court. We cannot allow the United Nations to tolerate a situation of non-accountability of States for violations of international law. The successes of any organization, its usefulness and effectiveness, are not only a matter of the determination and unanimity of its members. Much also depends on the resources at its disposal, the efficiency of its procedures and the competence of the people operating them. In the past, United Nations officers have provided innumerable examples of their dedication in pursuing the Organization's activities, of their commitment to serving the ideals actuating the United Nations. Better use needs to be made of their potential through constant adaptation of the Organization's structures and mechanisms to changing tasks. That will also make for much better disposition of the Organization's budget. In our drive to rationalize the United Nations budget, our focus should not be on ways of reducing it. The real problem is that there is not enough money to do all the things that everyone expects the Organization to be doing. The United Nations budget should be tailored to the tasks that we ask it to perform, but also more effectively. We are also aware that the 34 Organization's regular budget and its peacekeeping budget should be based on the principle of the ability to pay and on realistic economic indicators. Poland is prepared to accept any reasonable and fair changes that may be agreed on the future scale of contributions. We will play a constructive part in negotiations on this problem. It is a source of great satisfaction for me to congratulate you, Sir, a former Prime Minister of Finland, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session, which faithfully reflects your personal virtues and diplomatic experience. I am also pleased to offer my most sincere congratulations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his excellent work at the previous session, and in particular for his work to coordinate the preparatory activities for the Millennium Summit. Special mention should be made of Secretary- General Kofi Annan for his indefatigable work to promote the mandate of this Organization and for his vision for strengthening its future activities, set out in his excellent report We, the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century. With regard to the situation in El Salvador, the process of implementing the peace agreements has been an exceptionally arduous and highly complex task that has been made possible by the firm political will of the Government; by the willingness of the Salvadoran people and all the country's political forces; and by national efforts that have enjoyed the valuable cooperation of the international community, in particular the group of friendly countries, which have always remained close to us, and the United Nations, whose verification work has contributed to the success of peace in El Salvador and to national reconciliation. We are now entering a new phase of our history in which political and economic freedoms prevail. This will ensure the continuity of a broader and deeper process requiring the cooperation and participation of all national sectors and the renewed support of the international community in consolidating the progress achieved and in making further advances towards more humane and supportive forms of co-existence within the framework imposed by our institutions and democratic Government. During this phase, we have opened up new possibilities and opportunities for all sectors of the country to benefit from peace in democracy and to meet together the challenge of continuing to work to reduce existing disparities in our society, particularly economic and social ones. In this vein, poverty in its various forms is and always has been a structural problem, of which every country in the world is aware. In our case, we are according it priority attention, not only to ensure that these phenomena do not undermine our emerging democracy, which was won by our people with so much pain and blood, but also so that we can assign it due support and social context. On this basis, President Francisco Flores of El Salvador has focused his government plan on increasing the levels of well-being and progress for all Salvadorans. He has concentrated his attention on the most vulnerable and dispossessed sectors in order to improve their quality of life through a policy to generate employment and job opportunities via enhanced productivity, the promotion of trade and increased investments on the basis of shared responsibility. As President Flores has already done in this forum, I would emphasize the fact that the future of our nation is in our own hands. Each individual, group and sector of our society must assume its own responsibilities and duties in order to overcome the problems of and obstacles to the promotion of growth and sustainable human development. Similarly, President Flores has emphasized the fact that in a globalized and interdependent world, solidarity and international cooperation are vital to complement the efforts of the developing countries in order to face the global challenges jointly and with greater capacity. It must be understood that this does not mean that the international community, and the industrialized countries in particular, are going to solve our problems, but rather that they can contribute to the creation of an international environment that provides opportunities, including policies that offer greater access to their markets for the products of developing countries, investment opportunities, the transfer of technology and information, and fulfilling the commitments made to improve development assistance. We know that we are facing an enormous and complex task, and in this effort we hope that we can continue to rely on the valuable support of the multilateral institutions and the community of nations, with whom we share interests and problems in particular the joint mission to preserve and consolidate peace after conflicts have come to an end. In this regard, as we celebrate the International Year for the Culture of Peace, I would like to reiterate the importance that El Salvador attaches to the continuity of the efforts focused on strengthening a culture of peace, especially on the eve of the International 16 Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World. In Central America, since 1987, when the agreement on the Procedures for the establishment of a firm and lasting peace in Central America was signed, our peoples have welcomed with hope and have supported national, regional and international initiatives to achieve pacification in the region. These efforts culminated in specific agreements that made it possible to end the armed conflicts in the affected countries and to carry out profound political and institutional transformations, which have contributed to improving living conditions for all the peoples in the region. Along the way we have adopted and implemented measures and mechanisms that, in a general sense, have made it possible to guarantee human rights and fundamental freedoms, establishing the base from which Central America can begin democratic life, free from armed conflicts and with legitimate and sovereignly elected Governments. These Governments, in fulfilment of their historical responsibilities, have established institutions and developed a process of consultation in order to coordinate and harmonize efforts to overcome the profound causes of conflicts and to avoid retreating from the advances achieved. It is important to reiterate in this forum that the countries of Central America have reaffirmed our commitments to make Central America a region of peace, liberty, democracy and development, and in particular to foster gradually and progressively a Central American union. This is the best route for ensuring a prosperous future for the region and, at the same time, to strengthen our capacity to confront our problems in the best possible way, as well as to take on the new challenges arising from globalization and interdependence. There is no doubt that the progress achieved at the regional level in the coordination and unification of the internal and external policies of the countries of the region represents real proof of the determination of our Governments to make sure that unity prevails over division. In our opinion there are more reasons that unite us than divide us, and we affirm with complete confidence that in a globalized and interdependent context the viability of Central America will depend on the joint effort to build our common historic future. This is why we must reorient our efforts so that they meet the requirements, aspirations and needs of our Central American people, through specific programmes that provide our people direct and tangible benefits. Allow me to speak about other important items on the agenda and in the current international situation that are of interest to the Government of El Salvador. A few days ago the Millennium Summit was concluded, and we can say that the results obtained in the deliberations and reflected in the final Declaration have inspired us with hope. In particular we are heartened by the commitments made to strengthen peace, security and disarmament. Among the most notable of these commitments are to eliminate weapons of mass destruction and to fight against transnational crime in all its dimensions, including the global problem of drugs and related crimes, against the illicit trafficking in small arms, and against international terrorism. We also are hopeful because of the commitments on a highly sensitive and worrisome issue for our countries: development and the eradication of poverty, and also on the need to develop a multilateral trade and financial system that is open and equitable and is based on rules that are predictable and non-discriminatory. And we are also hopeful because of the commitments to make sure that the high-level intergovernmental meeting on financing for development is a success. We should mention as well the decision to reduce by half, by the year 2015, the percentage of people on the Earth whose income is less than one dollar a day, including reducing hunger, and on access to drinking water, promoting equal access to various levels of education and promoting gender equality, reducing maternal mortality and the propagation of diseases including AIDS, and protecting vulnerable individuals. We would also highlight the commitments made to preserve the environment and to intensify efforts to reduce the number and effects of natural disasters. We would highlight as well the commitments regarding violations of human rights, democracy and the good management of political affairs. In our opinion the issue of the strengthening of the United Nations deserves special attention because of the situation that the Organization currently faces with regard to fulfilling its mandate, which has been apparent during the last 10 years more than at any other time in its history. A crisis of confidence, credibility 17 and capacity has increased the conviction of the majority of Member States that it is absolutely necessary to introduce substantive changes in the basic structure of the Organization and in its decision- making processes in order to reflect the realities of the current international order, which has greatly changed since the adoption of the Charter of the United Nations. The international situation today is more complex, multifaceted and uncertain, blending problems and conflicts that have become permanent fixtures on the international agenda, and there are new challenges and threats that transcend national borders. These include phenomena that undermine the security, sovereignty and independence of States. Taken together, these developments provide yet further justification for the existence of the United Nations, as well as for the validity of its objectives and principles. We recognize and welcome the changes introduced in the basic functional and administrative structure of the United Nations in order to improve its efficiency. Nevertheless, we share the general opinion regarding the imperative need to undertake integral reform. This reform should include substantial transformations in the principal organs, not only so that the Organization can better fulfil its mandate, but also to overcome the contradictions underlying provisions in the Charter so that the system will function in a truly democratic and transparent manner. First, we must recognize that for many years now the mandate of the Economic and Social Council has been questioned. Therefore, we believe it is necessary to resume negotiations aimed at adopting measures to revitalize one the main functions of the United Nations, which is the promotion of economic and social development. In particular, priority should be granted to sustainable development, with special emphasis on fighting poverty, the fight against drugs and AIDS, the protection of the environment and respect for human rights. All of this is in conformity with the commitments in the Millennium Declaration and especially with the objectives pursued through preventive diplomacy. For this purpose, we believe it is appropriate to reexamine the initiative to create an economic security council which would be responsible for dealing with development problems. Secondly, we believe it is extremely important to examine and evaluate the functions and powers of the General Assembly, given that this is an essential organ and the most representative body in the structure of the Organization. Nevertheless, its decisions are limited and are not binding upon the Member States. As a result efforts must be made to strengthen and broaden the Assembly's competence as a political forum in order to ensure the true role that it must play in world affairs. In particular the Assembly should be given greater responsibility in the decision-making process. This would not only strengthen the democratization and transparency of the actions of the Organization; it would also give the Assembly the legitimacy it requires in order to carry out collective action. Thirdly, the reform of the Security Council is, from our point of view, one of the biggest challenges facing Member States, for my Government it is a matter of concern that after seven years of negotiations we have not made progress on the substantive points related to the category, number and privileges of new members, as well as on the question of the veto, which is currently an exclusive privilege of the permanent members. The differences and the inflexible positions we have seen are unacceptable because they create a situation which, in our view, contributes to the lack of credibility and a loss of confidence in the system of collective security. It is urgent and we cannot postpone overcoming our differences and granting each other concessions so that we can reach a general, fair and equitable agreement in order to achieve the aims of the reform and realize the legitimate interests and hopes of most of the countries of the international community. El Salvador joins in the very fair demand, expressed so many times in this forum, to increase the number of permanent and non-permanent members to include industrialized and developing countries, faithfully reflecting the current world configuration. The numbers should reflect the current membership of the Organization with equal responsibilities and due respect for geographic distribution. The use of the veto privilege should be limited to Chapter VII of the Charter. I would like now to refer to other important issues which are part of the Assembly's agenda in the new millennium. These issues have important repercussions for Member States as regards international peace and security, as well as serious consequences for the future of our Organization. 18 On behalf of the people and Government of El Salvador, we welcome Tuvalu as a new Member of the Organization. This act confirms the right of people to be represented in this worldwide Organization and illustrates the universal nature of the United Nations. The Charter was adopted on behalf of the people who comprise the international community and, consequently, the United Nations cannot, and must not, close the door to any people which expresses its sovereign will and desire to be represented in the world Organization. May I refer to the special case which has been discussed in the Assembly each of the last eight years regarding the need to examine the exceptional international situation of the Republic of China in Taiwan with a view to guaranteeing full respect for the fundamental rights of its 23 million inhabitants to participate in the activities of the United Nations. We support the establishment of a working group in the Assembly to examine the appropriate place that the Republic of China should have in international bodies. We want to make it quite clear that our support for this initiative is not intended as an intervention in the internal affairs of another Member State. Nor does it represent opposition to the peaceful reunification of the Chinese people. Rather, it represents the recognition of the right of a people to realize their just aspirations, a people which exercises democratic rights in a country with which we have had excellent relations for more than 50 years. El Salvador participated with great interest in the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We recognize that, even though the results were not exactly what we desired, encouraging agreements and decisions were reached in the effort to achieve the objectives of the denuclearization regime which seeks to encourage nuclear States to act in good faith, to meet their international responsibilities and duties and to continue negotiations aimed at eliminating the threat of nuclear war. With these ideas, we join the members of the international community who have expressed their firm support for the proposal by the Secretary-General to convene an international conference aimed at seeking ways to eliminate the nuclear threat. With regard to conventional weapons, we wish to refer specifically to small arms and light weapons in light of the fact that El Salvador underwent the tragic experience of an armed conflict during the 1980s a conflict that was intense and of long duration precisely because of the entry and spread of this type of weaponry weaponry which entered our country illegally in order to supply the irregular militias. However, these weapons reached other parts of the population and resulted in a large number of casualties and the phenomenon of displaced persons and refugees from the areas of conflict. This situation was solved after the signing of the Peace Agreement in 1992. Not only do small arms and light weapons affect conflicts, be they internal or international, but traffic in these weapons has become a danger for public security and a threat to stability, as well as a threat to the democracy and sovereignty of States, when these weapons are used in activities that constitute transnational threats, such as terrorism, drug trafficking, money laundering and international crime. For this reason we firmly support the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, to be held in 200l. With regard to domestic or international conflicts that continue to occupy the attention of the international community and our Organization, we can only express our concern and regret that agreements have not yet been reached to guarantee peace, despite multilateral efforts. We urge all parties directly involved in each of the countries in conflict to abandon their individual or group interests so that through a national effort, political agreements can be reached which will make it possible for lasting permanent peace to be established in conformity with the aspirations of the peoples. May I also refer to the Middle East. Here we believe that the recent negotiations at Camp David are an important step in the difficult road to peace. We hope that it will be possible to achieve stable and lasting peace within sure borders for all the peoples of the region. In conclusion, I should like to emphasize that the Millennium Summit and the Millennium Assembly are historic events that could mark the beginning of a new era in the international order. Indeed, the Millennium Declaration is an ambitious but vital programme to collectively resolve our common problems. Hence, it is imperative that the commitments which we have made become a reality and, in the short term, we should take concrete steps and show political will for their 19 implementation. The peoples and Governments of the developing world will be watching closely and we shall do our utmost to implement those commitments. From a realistic point of view they require the decisive support of the developed world in order to be fully implemented.   Allow me at the outset, Mr. President, to convey to you our cordial congratulations and regards on your election as President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that your competence and active cooperation with United Nations Member States will pave the way for a successful and fruitful session. I would also like to express sincere thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for the effective manner in which he guided the work of the previous session. At the same time, I wish to commend Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, for his firm leadership since taking office and for his visionary and action- oriented report “We the peoples:”. This report, together with the forward-looking Millennium Declaration, adopted two weeks ago at the historic Millennium Summit, sets an ambitious agenda for the United Nations for the twenty-first century. I would also like to convey our warmest welcome to Tuvalu, the newest Member of the United Nations. As we enter the new millennium, the prospects for the international community's evolution are marked by justified hopes, generated by the significant changes that occurred in the international arena during the last decade, yet also by hesitation and sometimes by scepticism regarding our capacity to efficiently face today's worldwide challenges. The Millennium Summit offered a unique opportunity to reflect on the global problems that confront the world today and to identify and act on the challenges ahead. It reaffirmed the centrality of the world Organization in addressing the global, social, security and economic needs for the benefit of people. We have ahead of us a real challenge to reshape the United Nations so that it can realize its universal goals of peace, human security, cooperation, poverty eradication and sustainable development. From this perspective, the Republic of Moldova attaches the utmost importance to the implementation of the commitments inscribed in the United Nations Millennium Declaration. Though the international community, and in particular international organizations, makes systematic efforts aimed at resolving conflicts, we should recognize that these efforts sometimes fall short of reaching their proposed goals. Currently, on the European continent alone, we are witnessing a number of unresolved conflicts and potentially crisis- generating situations. Democratic transformations and economic development in some South-Eastern European countries, including the Republic of Moldova, are also jeopardized by unresolved internal conflicts. In the past 2 eight years we have made sustained efforts to settle the conflict in the eastern region of the country, in full compliance with the principles of international law and international practice. The mechanism of settlement, involving the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the mediating States, Russia and Ukraine, has been established. Moldova is oriented towards a complete settlement of the conflict, respecting the principle of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of my country, and at the same time granting to the region autonomous status. Despite the reasonable compromises proposed by the constitutional authorities, separatist tendencies still persist. It is an apparent peace, which distracts the attention of the international community from the imperatives of finding ways to settle the conflict and simultaneously impedes economic and democratic reforms. The situation becomes more difficult if the fact that the region is over-militarized is taken into account. Tens of thousands of tons of munitions, armaments and equipment, sometimes accounted for and sometimes not, that are limited under the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE), are deployed in the region. An early, complete and unconditional withdrawal of foreign troops, munitions and armaments, as stipulated in the OSCE Istanbul Summit documents, and as required by the CFE Treaty, would undoubtedly facilitate the peaceful and complete settlement of this conflict. I express our hope that, together with our partners, and assisted by the relevant international organizations, we will be able to ensure the implementation of the schedule for the withdrawal of foreign troops from the territory of Moldova. I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for the political and financial support granted by a number of States in order to facilitate the process of withdrawal and the destruction of the armaments. Although some of the so-called frozen conflicts, at least in our region, do not appear to be getting worse, there is a growing sense of frustration that the solution is not yet within our reach. It is therefore imperative to enhance political awareness regarding unresolved or potential conflicts, with a view to actively involving the United Nations and relevant regional organizations in their settlement. It is well known that the settlement of an ongoing conflict requires incomparably greater political, financial and moral efforts than are needed at the stage of preventing conflict. It has become obvious that United Nations mechanisms and strategies for dealing with threats to stability are inadequate. They need to be strengthened, not only to resolve conflicts and conflict situations, but, more important, to prevent them. From this perspective, the Republic of Moldova fully supports the Secretary-General's efforts to direct the United Nations strategy towards conflict prevention. We welcome the Brahimi report on peacekeeping operations. In our view the implementation of its recommendations will significantly consolidate the capacity of the United Nations in conflict prevention, peacekeeping and peace-building. Member States should provide the Organization with the necessary support to enhance the rapid deployment capabilities of the United Nations through the involvement of the United Nations standby arrangements system. Given this context, I would like to inform the Assembly that Moldova has already established the legal and institutional framework for its future participation in peacekeeping operations and the United Nations standby arrangements system. Disarmament and non-proliferation are essential elements of the security architecture. The Republic of Moldova, like many other countries, considers that we should continue our efforts to achieve disarmament and non-proliferation, with universal ratification of the major multilateral disarmament instruments and negotiations on biological weapons, ballistic missiles and small arms. In particular, we should reaffirm the role of the Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty as the cornerstone of international peace, security and strategic stability. The Republic of Moldova attaches the utmost importance also to the issue of small and light weapons, primarily to the effort to create effective international mechanisms for the prevention of their illegal transfer, especially in areas of conflict. In this respect, we are prepared to bring our contribution to the preparation of the international conference on illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects, to be held next summer. My country highly appreciates the proposals of the Secretary-General on the issues of development and poverty eradication as reflected in the millennium report and in the report on the work of the Organization submitted to the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. 3 In conditions of globalization, which has generated profound transformations in the global economy, this issue becomes even more important, particularly for less developed States and for States with economies in transition. A United Nations system better adapted to the necessities of economic development should pay more attention to the harmonization of commercial policies, cooperation in the technological field, and the monetary policies of member States and international institutions. In these efforts, the United Nations should enlist the support of governmental economic and financial institutions, the private sector and non-governmental organizations, thus promoting a partnership with a view to development. A redefinition of the cooperation framework and international help is needed, which should involve new strategies and investment policies. My country favours the elaboration of strategies of and measures for globalization management, and also favours the holding of a special session of the General Assembly regarding globalization and a United Nations conference on the less developed countries next year. In order to reach sustainable development focused on the human being, there is a need to improve the partnership among developing and developed countries, international institutions and civil society. We consider that the United Nations, as a framework for international cooperation, should play a key role in supporting and coordinating national efforts. Within the framework of the United Nations development programmes and funds, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) plays a special role in human sustainable development. United Nations assistance provided through UNDP has contributed to strengthening the legal and institutional framework necessary for the continuation of countries' reforms. Currently, the framework for cooperation between the Republic of Moldova and the United Nations Development Programme embraces approximately 40 projects in the fields of governing and democracy, environmental protection and regeneration, the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, the promotion of women, poverty reduction and eradication, economic and social strategies, and human sustainable development. I would also like to mention the important role of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. By promoting the dissemination and implementation of the instruments of the Commission, we would ensure the adjustment of economies in transition to international and European standards. Thus, the projects implemented by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe would contribute directly to the integration of these economies into the world economy. The Republic of Moldova supports the activity of these institutions. We consider, however, that their financial resources should be increased and the management of resources should be more efficient. We welcome the actions undertaken by the UNDP Administrator, reflected in the Administrator's business plans, and those of the Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, meant to enhance the efficiency of the activities and resource management of these important institutions. We consider that the establishment of strong positions regarding development policies, through an understanding of the characteristic conditions and specific needs of countries, would contribute significantly to the Organization's reaching its goals in this domain. The reform of the Security Council lies at the heart of the general reform of the United Nations. It should be guided by the principles of equitable geographic representation, democracy, effectiveness, efficiency and transparency. It is on this foundation that we can modernize the composition of the Security Council and bring it into line with the substantial increase in the general membership of the United Nations since 1963, the year of the only previous reform of the Council. The Republic of Moldova pronounces itself in favour of a moderate enlargement of the Council's composition and of a reasonable increase in the number of permanent and non- permanent members which would correspond to the principle of fair geographical distribution and ensure an adequate balance between the industrialized and developing countries. Our country also welcomes the process of revitalization and improvement of the General Assembly's efficiency and, at the same time, supports the idea of restoring the central role of the Assembly as the debating and main representative body of the United Nations. We consider that it is necessary to continue the efforts to consolidate the coordinating functions of the Economic and Social Council regarding United Nations funds and programmes. Under existing conditions it is clear that United Nations reform will continue successfully only if the 4 financial problems affecting the Organization's activities are solved. We support the proposals aimed at the reform of the United Nations scales of assessments, including the peacekeeping scale, taking into consideration the payment capacity of each State. Despite the difficulties it faces, my country makes every effort to reduce its United Nations budget arrears. The evolution of the situation in the international arena in the past 55 years calls for imposes a new vision and a redefinition of the concrete mechanisms for realizing the fundamental objectives of the Organization, which spring essentially from the founding philosophy of the Charter of the United Nations. In this respect, the Organization should draw conclusions from its own past and, relying on permanent support from States, should accomplish new tasks from the perspective of adapting to the imperatives of time. We express our hope that the United Nations, which remains indispensable for the international community in the twenty-first century, will be able to impose a positive direction on this evolution.   First of all, on behalf of the Bulgarian delegation, I take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. President, and the other members of the presidency on assuming the particularly important task of presiding over this important millennium session of the General Assembly and to wish you every success in guiding it to a successful conclusion. Let me start by saying that the Republic of Bulgaria, as an associated country, aligns itself with the statement delivered on behalf of the European Union. This past year has been marked by a series of events, culminating in the Millennium Summit. From this General Assembly session we expect consensus decisions aimed at a strengthened and more efficient United Nations, capable of bringing us closer to a common vision for a better future, rid of the scourge of conflict and war, poverty and disease, backwardness and under-development, and based on peace and security, sustainable development and prosperity in the context of a dominating tendency towards a more globalized and interdependent world. This truly is a formidable task. It cannot be achieved by or for a separate country or region. It requires a broad and sustained effort to create a shared future, based upon our common humanity in all its diversity, as rightly pointed out in the Millennium Declaration. On the verge of the new millennium, it would not be an exaggeration to say that humanity has achieved a lot. Nowadays we have at our disposal far better and efficient means to produce more goods and services, to fight diseases and live longer and better lives, to reap the benefits of the new information technologies in all spheres of life. But at the same time, we cannot but recognize that humanity is still confronted by tremendous challenges. Poverty and misery are still dominant over large parts of the world. People in so many places are still exposed to conflict and violence. The world is still threatened by weapons of mass destruction. New threats, such as terrorism, international crime, illicit traffic in narcotics and small arms, are coming to the fore. Also of particular concern are the changes in the world climate and environment, which are bringing disasters capable of destroying the homes and livelihoods of millions. To cope with these challenges we must act together. This is the reason why we need a strengthened and effective United Nations, which could be achieved through the shared responsibility and the good political will of all its Member States. The Millennium Assembly is giving us the opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the purposes and the founding principles of the United Nations, to go ahead with reforms and to strengthen its role and effectiveness, so as to make it serve us all better in meeting the challenges we are confronted with at the beginning of the new millennium. 26 Bulgaria joins the other Member States in supporting the proposals, contained in the Millennium Report of the Secretary-General Kofi Annan (A/54/2000) and aimed at the system-wide streamlining and strengthening of the Organization and at making it more efficient and responsive to new realities. Of particular importance in this regard is the strengthening and revitalization of the principal organs of the United Nations, in particular the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. Regarding the reform and the enlargement of the Security Council, we share the view that this process should result in a more representative, effective and legitimate Security Council, taking into consideration both the increased number of the United Nations membership and the enhanced role and political and economic potential of certain States, like Germany and Japan, for example, which could assume the responsibilities of permanent members. In our view, a reformed Council should be more transparent, open and accessible to the interested non-member States. A fair and balanced representation, including the Group of Eastern European States, whose membership has doubled in the last decade, should definitely be secured. A decision on the enlargement of the Council and on its working methods should be supported by the broadest possible consensus, including all the permanent members of the Security Council. During the past year, the international community continued to be engaged closely with the situation in south-east Europe. As a country, suffering most directly the impact of the developments in the region, Bulgaria is particularly concerned with the situation in Kosovo. We note that progress in implementing resolution 1244 (1999) of the Security Council has been achieved, particularly with regard to restoring peace and stability in the province. At the same time, it must be recognized that in terms of multi-ethnic coexistence the situation is still far from satisfying. Continuing ethnic violence is causing serious concern. Particularly worrying are the attacks against members of the international peacekeeping contingents and United Nations personnel. The situation requires resolute steps on behalf of all community leaders in Kosovo to reject violence and to promote tolerance and cooperation in compliance with the adopted declarations. We see such an approach as a key prerequisite for building up an atmosphere of confidence and ethnic tolerance. The successful preparation and holding of municipal elections with the participation of all ethnic minorities, including refugees and displaced persons, is particularly important for speeding up the political process in Kosovo and for securing lasting peace and stability. Since the very beginning of the Kosovo crisis, Bulgaria has been actively engaged in the overall efforts of the international community to settle the conflict and ensure lasting peace and stability in the region. As is well known, Bulgaria participates in the international peacekeeping forces in Kosovo and renders logistical support to the peacekeeping Mission in the province. Furthermore, my country has been mobilizing significant resources, in accordance with our potential, to increase its contribution to international peace activities. In response to the appeal to increase the size of the United Nations civilian police force in Kosovo, Bulgaria has increased its contingent to 60 police officers, and is now considering the possibility of increasing that number to 100. Bulgaria has sent an engineering platoon to join the international presence in the field. Bulgarian companies are engaged in the construction and assembling of houses to shelter displaced persons and refugees in Kosovo. Last, but not least, Bulgaria has been supplying low-cost electricity to Kosovo. The overall cost of these endeavours has so far reached $6 million. We deem particularly important the involvement of all the countries of the region in the process of seeking settlement of the outstanding issues through the process of multilateral and bilateral negotiations. In this context, the informal meetings held at the level of prime ministers and the meetings of the foreign and defence ministers of the countries neighbouring the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that are devoted to different aspects of cooperation are useful. Of particular importance to the post-conflict reconstruction of conflict-stricken areas is the elaboration and the implementation of a long-term strategy for the economic reconstruction and development of the countries of the region through their integration into the European and Euro-Atlantic structures. The speedy implementation of the different projects within the framework of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe could contribute significantly to the economic development and stability of the region. 27 We deem infrastructure projects as being particularly important in that regard. Such projects will contribute to enhancing the transportation and communications links of the region and connecting them with the rest of Europe. Attracting investments and developing trade and the participation of companies from the region in the reconstruction process are important as well. We highly appreciate the progress achieved in strengthening cooperation between the countries of the region in such fields as fighting organized crime and corruption, the illicit traffic in narcotics, curbing the uncontrolled possession of small arms, and so on. An important achievement of that cooperation is the creation of a multinational peace force in south-eastern Europe, with joint headquarters in Plovdiv, Bulgaria. We are confident that the establishment of this force will strengthen the spirit of confidence and cooperation in the region of south-eastern Europe. An issue of special relevance to Bulgaria and also, I believe, for other countries of the region, is the negative impact on the national economy of the strict implementation of the economic sanctions imposed until recently by the Security Council on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. As is well known, Bulgaria strictly abided by the decisions of the United Nations Security Council, and as a result suffered economic losses commensurate with the country's foreign debt. Those losses still affect our economic development. Given the continued relevance and importance of this issue under the present international setting, Bulgaria supports the view that, since the provisions of the Charter have equal importance, the issue of assisting third States affected by sanctions has to be taken into consideration together with the imposition of sanctions. The elaboration of a concrete mechanism for that purpose is therefore important for the United Nations, which must find ways and means of alleviating their negative effects, in particular on third States. The international community as a whole should take care of this. In our view, it is necessary that there be closer and more direct participation in the whole process by all third States that could potentially be adversely affected by the imposition of sanctions. We are confident that the discussions on this issue at the present session, based on the decisions already adopted and on the report of the Secretary-General under resolution 54/107, will result in more concrete decisions to that end. Bulgaria not only supports international efforts to overcome the crisis in south-eastern Europe, but it also fully supports the efforts aimed at resolving conflict situations in Cyprus, the Middle East, the Caucuses, Africa and elsewhere in the world. Bulgaria notes with satisfaction the positive progress in the relations between South and North Korea. In the context of the new challenges in the field of international peace and security, United Nations peacekeeping operations continue to be a crucial element in the activities of the United Nations. My country supports the efforts of the international community aimed at ensuring the necessary tools and resources required to promote conflict prevention, the peaceful resolution of disputes, and post-conflict peace-building and reconstruction. We are convinced that the new generation of peacekeeping operations should include in their mandates a proportionate combination of political, military, humanitarian, reconstruction and other relevant activities. In this regard, we believe that there are still unexploited opportunities to strengthen the cooperation of the United Nations and to make its cooperation with regional organizations in the field of preventive diplomacy, crisis management and peacekeeping more effective on the basis of on their competitive advantages. We share the concern of other Member States over ensuring the United Nations ability to deliver on its mounting array of peacekeeping commitments, and we are committed to work together to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations in this vital area. We fully support the need to reform the United Nations peacekeeping scale of assessments. I would like to point out, as a clear demonstration of this fact, that the Government of Bulgaria has decided to assume an additional financial commitment by increasing its contribution to peacekeeping operations. An issue closely linked to the maintenance of international peace and security is the fight against terrorism and international crime. Bulgaria attaches paramount importance to the efforts of the world community in the fight against terrorism. We condemn all terrorist acts and lament the loss of life and the destruction inflicted by such acts. We share the view that the threat of terrorism is assuming a magnitude that requires a decisive and joint response by the whole international community. Bulgaria supports the 28 activities of the United Nations aimed at setting norms and standards for the fight against terrorism and international crime through the negotiation of various legal instruments and by creating appropriate institutions for that purpose. We consider that the establishment of the International Criminal Court is a significant achievement in that regard. I would like to reiterate my country's strong commitment to the fight against the most serious kinds of international crime in all their forms. That commitment is a consistent part of Bulgarian policy. We are confident that the establishment of the International Criminal Court will be an efficient step by the international community towards deterring the potential perpetrators from committing such acts. Together with peacemaking and the building of a more secure world, the broadening of the human aspect of development through democracy and participation has been widely accepted and has become one of the priorities of the activities of the United Nations. The principle of the indivisibility of the universally recognized civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights continues to be a key element of today's system of promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms. Bulgaria is confident that the activities of international forums in the field of human rights should be aimed at ensuring the effective and universal enjoyment of those rights on a global scale. The principle of the indivisibility of universally recognized civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights continues to be a key element in today's system of promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms. Bulgaria is convinced that the activities of international forums in the field of human rights should be aimed at ensuring the effective and universal enjoyment of those rights on a global scale. In this respect, the monitoring and effective control of the implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms remain of crucial importance. Guided by this understanding, Bulgaria is now party to all universal human rights instruments that have established specific monitoring bodies and has recognized their competence to consider communications from individuals. In our view, the relevant experiences of some regional organizations with competence in the human rights field also could be taken into consideration. We share the view that a more effective coordination and exchange of information and even joint efforts are needed between the United Nations and regional organizations such as the Council of Europe and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). A better implementation of international standards could be achieved by improving existing mechanisms and by constructive and open dialogue on the most sensitive issues, including those related to human rights in individual States. Accordingly, the Bulgarian Government attaches great importance to the enjoyment of all human rights by Bulgarians living abroad and considers respect for their rights as an essential element in the enhancement of relations. Enhanced socio-economic development is another important factor for securing stability and peace in the world. The achievements registered in this field should be recognized and encouraged. The review process, based on the relevant ideas contained in the millennium report of the Secretary-General, must result in the strengthening of the coordinating role of the Economic and Social Council and of the entire machinery of this Organization. Of particular relevance in this regard are the steps aimed at the practical realization of the follow-up measures to the major international conferences. Bulgaria attaches major importance to the role of the United Nations in the field of sustainable development and is following closely the United Nations dialogue and the activities of the respective United Nations bodies and agencies on issues related to demographics, social development, women, the fight against diseases and drugs, and so on. Bulgaria is cooperating actively with the United Nations system of specialized agencies and programmes. We are interested in further developing this cooperation. We are looking forward to more dynamic and streamlined activities, especially through the use of the potential of United Nations Development Programme for capacity-building and assistance in the development and implementation of joint projects. In this regard, the system of resident coordinators and the efforts to make that system more operational will undoubtedly play an important role. Bulgaria shares the concern of the international community regarding the spread of diseases, in particular the AIDS virus. We support the activities of the United Nations in this field, and we join our efforts 29 to those of Governments, non-governmental organizations, and academic and research institutions in the fight against this dangerous disease. Development and economic growth are impossible without full participation in global economic and financial exchanges. In our opinion, the United Nations and its institutions could play a more active role with regard to the specific problems related to economic transition and reforms. Disarmament issues continue to play an important role in overall efforts to secure a better world for future generations. The Bulgarian Government attaches high priority to international efforts to strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime. We call for an early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty as an important step in that direction and support the decision of the Conference on Disarmament to establish an ad hoc committee to conduct negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty. We favour the strengthening of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention and believe that a further acceleration of the negotiations and an early conclusion of the protocol to the Convention is required. As a State party to the Chemical Weapons Convention, Bulgaria would like to contribute to increasing the number of accessions to the Convention in order to achieve recognition of the prohibition of chemical weapons as a universal norm of international law. As a concrete effort to this end, we are hosting a regional seminar of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in Sofia from 28 to 30 September of this year. With regard to conventional arms, anti-personnel landmines are widely recognized as a terrible weapon, which kills and maims hundreds of thousands of people worldwide. Convinced of the need for a total prohibition of anti-personnel mines, on 29 July 1999 the Bulgarian Parliament ratified the Ottawa Convention, thus contributing to its early entry into force. We are also ready to contribute to the efforts of the international community to reduce conventional weapons, including small arms, especially their excessive and destabilizing accumulation in areas of conflict. We regard universal participation in the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms as an important step towards effective transparency, on both a regional and a global scale. For Bulgaria this past year has been a period of continued intensive efforts by the Government to build on the economic stabilization that has been achieved and to move forward with structural reforms, modernizing State administration, enforcing the rule of law in civil society and creating favourable conditions for sustainable economic growth. The steps and initiatives that have been undertaken in compliance with the Government programme 'Bulgaria 2001' are directed at moving ahead with the integration of Bulgaria into European and Euro-Atlantic structures. Being an integral part of Europe, Bulgaria regards accelerated accession to the European Union and full membership in North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) as an expression of our sovereign political choice based on broad public support. Since Bulgaria is endeavouring to promote and enhance the values of democracy, we are sincerely interested in seeing these values become widely accepted throughout South- eastern Europe. The Republic of Bulgaria welcomes its inclusion in the process of enlargement of the European Union, together with other associated countries from Central and Eastern Europe, as well as Cyprus. The Bulgarian Government is fully aware that our accession endeavours are contingent on the success of domestic economic and legislative reforms. The Bulgarian Government has developed a clear-cut national strategy to meet the criteria for NATO membership, based on a comprehensive national programme of preparation, which is being updated and optimized. Bulgaria has the political will and is undertaking concrete steps to translate and fulfil in regional terms the objectives of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council and the enhanced Partnership for Peace. Our positive attitude is reflected in the ongoing regional political dialogue and the practical follow-up measures to enhance regional security and defence cooperation in South-eastern Europe. In conclusion, I would like once again to declare my country's readiness to cooperate actively with all Member States for the successful implementation of the lofty goals which we have before us at the present session of the General Assembly. We are confident that discussions on important agenda items will be translated into practical measures.As head of the delegation of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, and on behalf of His Excellency Don Santiago Nsobeya Efuman, Minister for Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation and Francophone Affairs, I am honoured to address the Assembly. First, I congratulate you, Sir, former Prime Minister of Finland, on your election to preside over the deliberations of the General Assembly at its fifty- fifth session. We also sincerely congratulate Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of our sister Republic of Namibia, on the excellent work accomplished during the previous session and on his acclaimed activities in coordinating the preparations for the Millennium Summit, which has just ended. I also take this opportunity to extend particular congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his team for their full commitment to promoting the mandate of the United Nations, as well as for the plan to strengthen its future work, as reflected in his outstanding report. We warmly welcome the Republic of Tuvalu to the United Nations. Just two weeks ago we celebrated within these four walls the most important event in the history of humankind, when our heads of State and Government established general guidelines that must govern the future of our Organization, and that form a strong foundation on which we can, and must, work. We must now follow up all the proposals and recommendations made by our leaders, with the firm goal of implementing them, which would result in a promising future for all nations — those of the North and South and East and West. His Excellency Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the Republic, head of State and founding chairman of the Democratic Party of Equatorial Guinea, in his address on the first day of the Millennium Summit, affirmed that the turn of the century showed us a threatened world, one constantly in danger of collapse and in a permanent state of uncertainty about its destiny and the survival of humankind, one that conveyed an apocalyptic feeling that was shared by all alike — nations large and small, rich and poor. In order to follow up the proposals and recommendations of the Millennium Summit, we must start with the fact that democracy begins at home. In our specific case, that means the United Nations, which is our shared home, where the voice of the majority must prevail; that is a basic principle of the historic San Francisco Charter of 1945. Equatorial Guinea therefore joins the call for urgent, much needed reform and empowerment of the United Nations — an appropriate formula for achieving the fair and just representation of the African continent and other regions of the world, which we regard as a fundamental issue, particularly with regard to the Security Council. If this is not achieved, an environment of distrust may result, as well as a weakening of the role of our great Organization and its all-important task of promoting and ensuring international peace and security. At present, some individuals enjoy a level of wealth which in the past was inconceivable, while the 22 victims of poverty continue to suffer intolerable forms of deprivation. The poor remain marginalized and excluded, and day by day their ranks are increasing considerably. Almost a quarter of the world's population now lives in poverty. Today, pensions and social security protect many individuals from poverty, but poverty in old age remains prevalent around the world. Poverty must be the main concern in United Nations endeavours. The struggle against poverty must be strengthened, and if possible poverty must be eradicated, because the subject of poverty eradication is an ethical, social, political and economic imperative of humankind, as is finding solutions to the conflicts and fratricidal wars that take millions of victims in different parts of the world. Poverty eradication requires an improvement in economic growth and in employment opportunities. The causes of poverty must also be tackled in the context of sectoral strategies, such as strategies for the environment, food security, health, education, population, immigration, housing, development of human resources, rural development, drinking water and sanitation. Poverty eradication is therefore one of the primary tasks to which the peoples of the twenty-first century aspire, as an action which will promote the development and prosperity of the human being and will consolidate the culture of democracy and the respect for human rights. Other problems that need analysis and solutions from the international community are the rights of the child, the integration of women in development and the thorny issue of the foreign debt. As for the rights of the child, we must see to it that the activities and the follow-up of the World Summit for Children are integrated with economic actions to be implemented as a result of the other United Nations conferences held in the 1990s. In this respect, we must see to it that there is renewed thinking about the obligations stemming from the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child by each country and a renewed commitment to them. This must guide our actions in the future. As for the subject of women, we must eliminate all discriminatory practices against women and respect the procedures and the provisions that are inherent in the convention on this subject, as well as the recommendations stemming from the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing in 1995 and from the special session of the General Assembly held in June 2000. On foreign debt, we fervently appeal to donors that they cancel the foreign debt of the developing countries with the understanding that the funds released will be injected into the most vulnerable sectors in the economies of those countries, such as education, health, water and sanitation. We are gratified that among the major areas of progress in the twentieth century we see a growing awareness in humankind regarding respect for and promotion of human rights, democracy and good governance. In our country, because of the imperative of survival and the objectives of well-being and progress, we will continue on the agreed path towards the necessary restoration of all the rights to which our vulnerable and marginal groups aspire, in other words women, children, the disabled, refugees and those persons displaced by crisis and disasters. At the present time in Malabo, the capital of our nation, we have officially established the Centre for the Promotion of Human Rights and the Committee in Support of the Equatorial Guinean Child. This Committee was established under the chairmanship of the First Lady of the nation, Her Excellency Mrs. Constancia Mangue de Obiang. We have also experienced democracy in a spirit of joy with fraternity and without divisiveness, as is described by our national anthem, and also without internal upheaval. The national constitution, known as the Magna Carta of Akonibe, clearly stipulates the establishment and institutionalization of political pluralism in Equatorial Guinea. This has made it possible for a number of political parties to be established. These parties have signed a national covenant with the political party which is in power with the purpose of establishing and strengthening mechanisms for dialogue among the parties. At the present time, all are participating actively in aspiring to political power in the country. In this respect we thank God, the Creator, for having inspired us in this model of participatory and peaceful democracy. In September 1997 at the Congressional Palace of Bata, the National Economic Conference was held with the participation of all social sectors in our country. In the final report of this important event, we find the recommendations for programmes and projects to be 23 implemented by the Government in the short, medium and long-term as our economic development strategy. We cannot conceal our concern at the steady decline in international cooperation resources towards Equatorial Guinea, as we have recently seen in many of the projects and programmes that are implemented in the country with external resources. In this respect we want to avail ourselves of this forum to invite the international community to steadily increase the volume of international cooperation activities in Equatorial Guinea. With the primary purpose of ensuring peace and security in our subregion, we hope that the United Nations will support the appropriate mechanisms for the maintenance of peace, security, stability, cooperation and development in the Central African subregion, following the political will of the heads of State of that subregion, inspired by the establishment of the Council of Peace and Security in Central Africa (COPAX), a body for political and military agreement among the member countries of the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS). As regards the promotion of measures for the maintenance and the strengthening of peace and security, we have, within COPAX, a Central African Multinational Force (FOMAC) and an Early Warning Mechanism for Central Africa (MARAC). The Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea has contributed with determination to financing these institutions so that they can function properly. We sincerely regret the armed conflicts that exist at the present time on the African continent and in other parts of the world, for example, the case of Angola, the situation of the countries in the Great Lakes region and the crisis in Sierra Leone. We welcome the ceasefire in the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, and it is our hope that the parties will undertake dialogue with a view to a lasting peace. Likewise, we view with satisfaction the restoration of peace and authority in the sister republic of Somalia. In this respect, we commend the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the League of Arab States, the Islamic Conference and all of those who directly or indirectly contributed to the arduous task of restoring peace to that country. We strongly condemn the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We support the struggle against crime and the struggle against the global problem of drugs and related crimes and against illicit arms trafficking and international terrorism. We fully support the initiative reaffirmed by the Central American countries in their commitment to make Central America a region of peace, freedom, democracy and development and particularly to gradually and progressively stimulate the Central American Union to ensure a promising future for that region. In the Middle East, we congratulate the commendable political work done by the President of the United States Bill Clinton to mediate a lasting peace in the region. We hope that a proper interpretation and implementation of the proposals and recommendations of our leaders at the Summit, as well as the outstanding statements made at this distinguished Assembly, will guide us towards a better and more prosperous future for all the nations of the world.   I again extend our congratulations to the President on his election. The Millennium Summit has charted for us a plan of action for the immediate future. We must consistently bear that plan of action in mind as our main priority, and direct all our work towards its 11 effective implementation. We cannot view the final document adopted by the most important gathering of world leaders ever held as a mere expression of good intentions and act as though it were a matter of routine and as if nothing had happened. First, we must take action to ensure that the vast majority of the human race living in developing countries make significant progress towards the attainment of sustainable development. We must make special efforts with respect to the millions of men, women and children who live in poverty. They must be given means of subsistence, education and medical care. Our most important shared instrument, the United Nations, is currently ill-equipped for that enormous task. We must therefore focus on giving it the power and means to play an effective role in that important effort. We believe that the United Nations must play a central role in the struggle for development. To that end, we must consider without delay ways to strengthen the General Assembly, our most democratic and open institution. It is equally necessary to strengthen the Organization's primary instrument in this field, the Economic and Social Council, which should become a real council for human development, with authority and ability to act comparable to the Security Council's. The message of the Millennium Summit is very clear: peace and development are equally important, and each depends on the other. The most urgent tasks in the struggle against poverty are also clear: to alleviate the debt burden of highly indebted poor countries; to tackle the scourges of AIDS and malaria; and to provide education for all. In all of those tasks the United Nations must play a leadership role. In order to meet the established goals of reducing world poverty by half by 2015, we must ensure that national Government's measures adopted in accordance with the social platform of United Nations conferences, to benefit their populations in the areas of health, food and education, are accompanied by international cooperation based on solidarity, in order that those tasks are carried out efficiently and promptly. It is therefore particularly important, in order to support the objectives of, and strategies for, poverty eradication, that developed countries meet their commitment to dedicate 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product to official development assistance. It is equally urgent to ensure that the rules regulating international trade and finance are just and equitable, not only in theory but also in practice, so that they lead to development for all, and not merely to the further enrichment of a privileged minority. In that regard, the high-level intergovernmental meeting on financing for development, to be held next year, should result in effective coordination and harmonization of all the efforts Governments and international organizations, so that those efforts may bear tangible fruits meeting the needs of all countries. The United Nations must be the coordinating centre for the World Trade Organization and the Bretton Woods institutions. With regard to foreign debt, it is vital that the international community promote, on the basis of North-South dialogue, the adoption of concerted measures for the effective resolution of this problem, which is seriously weakening the sustained economic growth of developing countries affected by the excessive burden of debt servicing. We believe that it will be necessary to consider the timely rescheduling on favourable terms of the international financial commitments of developing countries, including highly indebted poor countries and medium-income countries. The freeing of resources currently allocated to debt payment will make it possible for those countries more efficiently to meet the real needs of their populations in the areas of food, health and education. It will also promote their peoples' participation and full integration within their respective societies. It is also necessary to recognize the economic and social costs incurred by developing countries in meeting foreign debt payments. Shared responsibility in dealing with economic and social issues, as well as with regard to questions of peace, requires more intensive and effective participation by developing countries in the world economy, particularly in decision-making and the formulation of international and economic norms. The efforts of the developing countries towards poverty eradication, economic and social progress, sustained economic growth and sustainable development are dependent on a favourable international economic environment and on international cooperation for renewed and strengthened development. The magnitude and urgency of the challenges facing us in the economic and social sphere 12 require the support of all Member States in order to realize the aspirations of those who cry out for a more equitable and just world, in which poverty eradication and the promotion of development are a genuine expression of international peace and stability. As for our other main priority, the maintenance of peace, we must learn from our experience — both from our mistakes and from our achievements. The United Nations must be provided with the means to anticipate and prevent conflicts, not just put an end to them once they have erupted. In this respect, disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, is vital, as is the elimination of the illicit arms trade. Also key is the struggle against transnational criminal activities such as terrorism and the illicit drug trade. In this context, we welcome the proposal of the Secretary-General to convene an international conference on the reduction of the nuclear threat. We believe that this could help strengthen the commitment to eliminate nuclear weapons, as recently agreed at the sixth Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Venezuela supports the convening of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, to be held next year. That Conference will be a perfect opportunity for us to combine our efforts to adopt measures of cooperation to eliminate this illicit activity, which has links to organized transnational crime and is encouraged by unscrupulous groups or individuals who act unlawfully. The role of the United Nations as the only forum empowered to authorize the use of force must be reaffirmed, without distinctions or exceptions, apart from self-defence, which in turn must be in strict compliance with the provisions of the Charter. It is urgent to this end to make effective progress towards reform of the Security Council. This does not mean mere cosmetic change, but rather real reform, with a view to ensuring its credibility as a democratic, transparent and impartial organ in which no country has the right to block, through the use of the veto, action agreed by the majority. If we wish the Millennium Summit to have real significance, if we want it to be remembered not only because of the milestone represented by the participation of an unprecedented number of world leaders, we must take concrete action at this session of the General Assembly. Towards that end, Venezuela fully supports the proposal made recently by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay to create a working group to ensure implementation of the Millennium Summit Declaration. We believe that this group should be open to participation by all Member States. We believe also that the representatives of the countries that co-chaired the Summit and those that presided over the four round tables, as well as the Chairmen of the regional groups, should participate actively in this process.  I would like to begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly. Your experience and wisdom will doubtless guide us in carrying out the important work ahead. As we all know, that work is to immediately and resolutely transform the high hopes of the Millennium Summit into a better reality for the peoples for whom the United Nations was founded. (spoke in French) This means assuming responsibility for our actions and our inaction. It also means that Governments must be ready to assume their responsibility for their citizens. Last week our leaders delivered here a message of hope and determination. Their words clearly showed that we all need the United Nations. The United Nations is the only organization that embodies universal values; that offers a global forum to address common problems; and that is on the front line around the world fighting for people. (spoke in English) There was another message from the Summit about whether the United Nations is keeping up with the times; about whether we, the Member States — custodians of the Organization and guardians of the Charter — have the political will to support renewal and modernization. When the lights turned off last Friday night here in New York, did other lights go on around the world — in our Chancery offices, Parliamentary assemblies and Cabinet meeting rooms — to illuminate the way forward? Are we all, each in our own way, asking how we can change our ways to better help the United Nations manage a new global agenda? Clearly, globalization has brought unprecedented benefits and possibilities. But it also clearly brings new risks to people in all our countries. Many of those new risks cross State lines, while most violent conflict now occurs within States' borders. In both cases, the impact is felt directly by ordinary people. Yet the debate within the United Nations remains driven — and too often circumscribed — by rigid notions of sovereignty and narrow conceptions of national interest. And action by the United Nations remains hampered by inflexible institutional structures that have become increasingly inward-looking, driven by their own interests rather than by those they were designed to serve. The Secretary-General has, with a courage rarely seen in public life, given us a vision of a way forward. 2 It is a vision that serves the world's people, and one that resonates with them, even though it may aggravate some of their Governments. He has challenged us to follow his lead, to adopt a people-centred approach to international relations, to move this Organization from the sidelines to the forefront of change. This is not a new agenda for Canada. Indeed, over the past five years, promoting human security has been the focus of our own approach to our changing world. And it has been encouraging to see the shift in attitude toward a more realistic sense of what it means to be secure in the world as an individual. Our leaders endorsed this new vision in their Summit Declaration. But if we have truly come to the understanding that security means more than protecting borders, we must now act to turn last week's good intentions into effective action. This means taking responsibility to adapt our institutions, broaden participation in their functioning, and increase transparency and accountability to make a tangible difference for the people we represent. It also means responsible, accountable global behaviour, sharing and protecting the common space that sustains life. Aggressive pursuit of the global arms control and disarmament agenda is the ultimate responsible act. Our generation built the nuclear arsenals that are outmoded and rotting; we produced the chemical weapons that poison people; and today we still make and distribute the small arms that are found everywhere: in the hands of children, the arsenals of drug dealers and the garrisons of guerrilla fighters. But we have also had a certain foresight to begin building a system of international obligations and principles to contain such behaviour. We now have to validate and implement these instruments. Above all, we must do nothing to damage them. Certainly, Governments must prepare for the defence of their people. Responsible defence is an element of responsible government. But surely, our responsibility to defend our citizens begins not with the development of new weapons systems, but by dismantling old ones: by ratifying the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT); by joining the 104 States parties to the Ottawa Treaty on landmines; by implementing the international non-proliferation norms and disarmament obligations embodied in the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT); by developing comprehensive action plans to stop the proliferation of small arms and missile technology. The collective action of States working for the long-term security of their people is clearly the preferable path. But where States are unable, or unwilling, to protect their citizens, the United Nations, and in particular the Security Council, has a special responsibility to act. Today, most wars are fought within failed States. In these wars, it is the victimization of civilians that is the motive, the means and the manifestation of a conflict. If the Council is to acquit itself of its responsibility to these people, their protection must be at the core of its work, not at its periphery. This is the agenda that Canada has brought to the Security Council over the past two years. It has not been an easy task, but I would like to acknowledge that the Security Council is meeting the new challenges. In recent months, the Council's work has increasingly focused on the protection of civilians, with action in the areas of AIDS, physical protection, war-affected children and sanctions reform. The Council has recognized that dealing with these issues is critical to building effective peace-support operations, and has embodied this recognition in recent resolutions. Today, we are providing members a checklist, a checklist of responsible action in the Security Council. (spoke in French) The Brahimi report also proposes a plan of action. It is a comprehensive strategy for strengthening the United Nations capacity to help people. Canada supports the panel's findings. We will be its strongest advocate and can be counted upon to work tirelessly to build the political support required to implement both the spirit and the letter of its recommendations. (spoke in English) By far the most difficult challenge in protecting civilians in armed conflict is in situations where abuse is most severe: genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity, massive and systematic violations of human rights and humanitarian law which cause widespread suffering, loss of life and abuse. We need a new form of deterrence against such forms of behaviour. The establishment of an 3 International Criminal Court (ICC), which makes impunity illegal and which holds individuals directly accountable for their actions, is that deterrent. And if its power to deter the abuse of people fails, the Statute provides both a basis and a structure to take concrete legal action to redress injustice. The Court's Statute provides us with a unique opportunity to fix one of the worst failings in the international system. Today I appeal to every Government here that has not done so to sign the Rome Statute by December and to ratify it on an urgent basis, so that the world's people can finally have the justice they deserve. Canada seeks to systematically put in place the building blocks for a new type of international system, one that is inspired and guided by the United Nations Charter, but that is also prepared to deal with the underside and underworld of globalization. Of course, prevention is the best form of intervention. But when preventive measures fail; when the quiet diplomatic efforts and the targeted sanctions do not work; when the fact-finders find facts too horrendous to imagine; then there must be recourse to more robust action. The question of intervention in these instances, including, as a last resort, the use of military force, is fraught with difficulty and controversy. Many would sweep it under the rug as too divisive, too difficult, too damaging to the status quo. But Rwanda, Cambodia, Srebrenica and Kosovo remind us that it is important to focus on this question. It would be easy to pretend that the humanitarian tragedies associated with these places are a thing of the past. It would be easy, but it would be wrong. There is no certainty that similar atrocities will not happen again. Indeed, the opposite is more likely. The spiral into extremes of human suffering cannot always be constrained. Reading the editorial page of The New York Times on Tuesday, 12 September, we realize that some would have us believe that the United Nations Charter was written only to protect States and State interests: “intervening in civil conflicts takes the United Nations a step too far”. I disagree. I say that in the face of egregious human suffering it is a step in the right direction. Nothing so threatens the United Nations very future as this apparent contradiction between principle and power; between people's security and Governments' interests; between, in short, humanitarian intervention and State sovereignty. Last fall I stood before this body and argued that the United Nations Charter was written for people. Our collective agenda here is not the nation States' agenda, or the ministers' agenda, or the diplomats' agenda. It is the people's agenda. Indeed, “We the peoples” are the opening words of the Charter. Those who would seek to hide behind that document to justify inaction need only to read its preamble to reacquaint themselves with its original intent. Secretary-General Annan has challenged us to rethink what it means to be responsible, sovereign States. Canada has responded by creating an independent international commission on intervention and State sovereignty. Its purpose is to contribute to building a broader understanding of the issue, and to foster a global political consensus on how to move forward. The commission will be led by two co- chairpersons — one from the developing and one from the developed world — with the participation of a wide range of representatives of Governments and non- governmental organizations from all regions and under the overall guidance of an advisory board composed of ministers, former ministers and distinguished practitioners from the academic, humanitarian and legal fields. The commission will undertake its work during this Millennium Assembly year, and will present its recommendations in 12 months' time. I ask those present here in the Assembly Hall to join in this enterprise, difficult as it may be, so that we can seek to reconcile these concepts to find the space that we can all share. It is difficult, but it is not impossible. We have done it before. Thirteen years ago, the Brundtland Commission's report, “Our Common Future”, took two seemingly contradictory ideas — economic development and the protection of the environment — and out of that contradiction forged a synthesis called sustainable development. That new concept fundamentally changed the way in which the world thinks about those issues, and its work informs our thinking to this very day. It is Canada's hope that this new commission can diffuse the anxiety that surrounds 4 the issues of intervention and sovereignty by building a similar bridge between our current notions of these concepts, and in so doing help to define the way ahead for Governments and the United Nations to tackle the most challenging international dilemma of the twenty- first century. However, the responsibility no longer stops just with Governments. The private sector must also take its responsibility for the communities on which it depends for its business. Ethical business is good business. The many companies that have joined the Secretary- General's Global Compact with Business recognize that profit made on the backs of exploited and abused children — by gun-running, drug dealing or conflict diamonds — is no longer acceptable. In the globalized economy, the world's people are the ultimate shareholders. If they do not profit, no one will. We must therefore work on all of these fronts and with all of these new players to build a future where human security is universally respected and protected. In the meantime, there are steps that we can take to protect the most vulnerable. To build a world that values human security we must start with concern and action for those who will inherit it. It is fitting, therefore, that in this year of fresh resolve the future of our children is a key element of the agenda, particularly through the special session on children that is to be held next year. Nowhere is the safety and well-being of children more at risk than in conflict situations. Children should have no part in war. Yet today they are among its main victims, counting in the millions. (spoke in French) Four years ago, Graça Machel brought attention to the horrific plight of war-affected children. Since then, action has been taken too reduce their suffering, most notably with the appointment of Olara Otunnu as the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict and, more recently, with the historic agreement last January on the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict. This week, with Graça Machel as honorary Chairperson, Canada is hosting in Winnipeg the International Conference on War-Affected Children. This meeting, the first of its kind, brings together more than 130 Governments, 60 non-governmental organizations and private sector groups, international organizations and young people from every region of the world. (spoke in English) I am pleased that so many ministers and senior officials from the Organization will join us in Winnipeg this weekend. I encourage those not already represented to attend. The aim of the conference is twofold: to formulate a comprehensive, global action plan and to forge the necessary political will to implement it. Together, we hope it will help children traumatized by war, and ultimately eliminate their involvement and victimization in conflict. Earlier this week in Winnipeg, as we opened the conference, a young Ugandan girl named Grace spoke to me, at a meeting of young people affected by war, about her experience as a child soldier. Her story was one of victimization and chilling brutality. Her belief that the international community could help her and others like her was touching and inspiring. Her plea for us to do so is the essence of the Organization's vocation. Indeed, it is one of our basic responsibilities. For me, that young woman's simple appeal makes it clear that we have no option but to be ready, to be willing, and to be able to forge a United Nations for the twenty-first century. In view of the daunting challenges ahead, any attempt to retreat, to shut out the world or to turn away from international engagement would be to follow a dangerous path that is neither practical nor desirable. The truth is that we share a common humanity. The reality is that we are linked by the forces of history into a common destiny. The fact is that the answers to our problems lie in strengthening, not diminishing, global cooperation and global solutions. In today's world, the security of States and the security of people are indivisible. Providing for that security is a necessary precondition for success in other important endeavours, such as advancing economic aid and trade development. In this new century, too many people like Grace are still subject to the worst of the past century: to the scourge of war, to human rights abuses and to too few prospects for social progress and a better standard of living. Yet the hopes contained in the United Nations Charter still have meaning for them, and indeed relevance for all of us. Fulfilling its aspirations is our enduring goal and fundamental 5 responsibility. With human security as our guide, let us make it our focus as we renew our commitment to the purposes of the United Nations and to a better future for Grace and for all the people that we represent. This goal is a responsibility that I have been honoured to share with many of those present here over the past five years. It is a goal that we must all continue to strive towards — whatever our position in life, whatever our title — in order to ensure that this system we have built does not surrender to the cynics who offer no alternatives, or to the game players who paralyse the transcendent purposes of the United Nations for simple transitory diplomatic points. Only in so doing will we truly live up to the promise contained in the Charter: to serve the majesty of the people and to make this Organization work for them.I would like to join the other delegations here in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the General Assembly. May I also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab who, through his experience and diplomatic skills, guided the fifty-fourth session to a successful conclusion. I wish to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General, under whose guidance and with whose expertise the Organization has been moving ahead in the attainment of its goals. May I also extend a warm welcome to Tuvalu, the newest Member of the United Nations. For many years Malta and Tuvalu have cooperated as joint members of the Commonwealth. This is an auspicious occasion, not merely because the General Assembly is the most widely representative group of the world's peoples, but also since it comes at a time when we are poised on the edge of a new dawn, a new beginning. Only last week we saw and heard the heads of State or Government of countries the world over reaffirm their faith in the Organization and its Charter as indispensable foundations of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. It was a renewed commitment to make the United Nations a more effective instrument in the hands of the world's people. This is a weighty undertaking, and one which may well benefit from a re- examination of the experience acquired during the past 55 years of the United Nations existence. As we are all no doubt aware, the United Nations has been instrumental in fostering a culture of partnership among States. Indeed, we meet here today in the understanding that this culture of partnership must continue to constitute the basis for humanity's progress. This is more than just a vision for the future; it is the road map for the way forward based on a programme of action that has weathered the vicissitudes of time and withstood test after test ever since its adoption in San Francisco over half a century ago. It is a noble endeavour that has survived in the face of adversity, that has experienced occasional setbacks, but that has also registered more than a fair share of success. Aided by its long-standing commitment to dialogue, the United Nations has positively contributed to the process of decolonization that has so decisively transformed the political map of the world. It has promoted a culture of dialogue and cooperation in the most diverse fields of human existence and endeavour, 28 ranging from health care to food supplies, from literacy to urban development, from historical heritage to the natural environment, and, more recently, improving the status of women. Nevertheless, in the crucial area of the maintenance of peace and security — the very raison d'être for the creation of the United Nations — the Organization, for various reasons, has at times been unable to fulfil this mandate. This is reflected in the painfully honest reports of the Organization's failings in Rwanda and Srebrenica. These negative experiences provided the backdrop to the recently published Brahimi report. The Government of Malta shares the concerns expressed in this report, which cautions in particular against entrusting the United Nations Secretariat with unrealistic mandates while not providing it with commensurate resources. We look forward to early consultations on the manner in which the recommendations of the report may be pursued. We have given serious consideration to addressing these concerns and have decided to match them with a specific commitment. It was in this connection that my Prime Minister last week, in his address to the Millennium Summit, signalled Malta's intention to significantly increase its peacekeeping contribution through a voluntary move from group C to group B. It will be recalled that over the years Malta has made other contributions towards promoting the global objectives of the United Nations. These have included a number of initiatives not designed in the narrow national interest but in the interest of the international community as a whole. May I recall in this connection Malta's proposals to the General Assembly relating to the seabed and the ocean floor, which led to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to the question of the ageing and to the initiative relating to climate change. These initiatives alerted the United Nations to examine the far-reaching, serious implications of those issues and thereby enabled it to adopt timely measures, which, as can be appreciated, have helped defuse, and continue to defuse, potential political tensions, environmental dangers and social complications. The progress recorded in the United Nations over the years is impressive and a source of great satisfaction to my Government. The goals achieved, while relevant the world over, lie extremely close to the heart of the area of which Malta forms part. The Mediterranean can be seen as a microcosm of the larger world stage. We have faced, and continue to face, intermittent conflicts and wide gaps in development levels. The shortage of freshwater resources in some areas is potentially another serious challenge. Despite being a sea of promise and great opportunity, the Mediterranean continues to challenge our political will to nurture long-lasting stability. Security in the Mediterranean requires committed and quiet determination to identify both the problems and, more importantly, the solutions. The element of dialogue that has so often underscored the work of the United Nations has brought much to the enhancement of relations between the States of that part of the world. Malta indeed not only shares the aspirations of the United Nations in this regard, but has striven throughout the years to ensure that they become an integral part of all dealings in the Mediterranean. Together with the rest of the world community, Malta welcomes the progress made in the Middle East peace process. We hope that the same determination as helped overcome seemingly insurmountable obstacles in the past will continue to inspire the protagonists to work for the goal of a just and permanent peace and security for our Middle Eastern neighbours. The Balkans are another part of the Mediterranean area that also continues to challenge the will of the international community in its quest for stability and its determination to ensure that full respect for human rights becomes the common heritage of all peoples who live there. In this respect, every positive development is of the utmost importance. For over 25 years the situation in Cyprus has remained a cause of concern. We therefore earnestly hope that an early settlement of the Cyprus question will be found. In this connection, the Maltese Government reiterates its full support for the Secretary- General's efforts to find a solution on the basis of the relevant Security Council resolutions. The Mediterranean has also been witness to the cruel and merciless trafficking in human beings, a tragic and criminal exploitation of the misery of others. We welcome the initiatives taken by the Italian Government at the Conference for Development and Security in the Adriatic and the Ionian held in Ancona 29 last May. The broad parameters established in that Conference can indeed serve as a prototype for similar agreements elsewhere. Malta has always been acutely aware of the role it can play in bridging the divides of this complex area. Successive Maltese Governments have consistently promoted efforts to develop and consolidate cooperation between the littoral States of the Mediterranean at both a bilateral and multilateral level. In the mid-1970s we hosted the preparatory meeting that led to the Barcelona Convention that launched the Mediterranean Action Plan. In 1995 we argued in favour of a Mediterranean stability pact for the region, a proposal which is now taking shape in the form of a Euro-Mediterranean charter for peace and stability. In 1997, at a time of difficult political circumstances for the area, Malta hosted the second Euro-Mediterranean Ministerial Conference, following that of Barcelona in 1995. More recently, Malta was one of the prime movers behind a recommendation within the Conference on Security Co-operation in the Mediterranean process of the Inter-Parliamentary Union for the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of Mediterranean States. These initiatives serve to underscore our commitment to the achievement of peace, prosperity and a just solution to the demands of the Mediterranean people. We believe, however, that on our own we can only do so much, and that therefore the principle of multilateralism, as enshrined in last week's Declaration, must be fully respected and observed. As was stated in the final Declaration of the Millennium Summit, the management of economic and social development, as well as the risks and threats to international peace and security, must be a shared responsibility. Freedom, equality, solidarity, tolerance and respect for the natural environment are goals towards which our combined energies and efforts should be channelled. It is for these reasons that we have chosen to pursue the path of membership of the European Union. It is the common values and principles that inspired the birth of what is today the European Union that inspire us in our quest. This is because it is through membership that we feel we can best play our part on the international stage, and contribute more effectively towards the promotion of peace and progress in the Mediterranean. We feel that our capabilities to play a useful role may be greatly enhanced from within the European Union. This is not solely for our own local benefit. We believe that our membership will give the European Union an added dimension that will serve to benefit both the northern and southern shores of the Mediterranean littoral. Good governance is what we, the peoples of the United Nations, seek at a national, regional and international level. Yet good governance is exactly what is threatened by a number of phenomena that plague our contemporary society. Ranging from the trafficking of drugs to that of armaments and human beings, international organized crime threatens the very texture of law and order through abuse, corruption and violence. The growth of related crimes also alerts us to the need for ever closer international cooperation. As much as the socio-political environment requires constant vigilance, so too does the physical environment. Global warming remains a constant concern, and we urge that the undertakings to ward off the further degradation of the ozone layer be fully adhered to. Questions of disarmament, extreme poverty, the striking proportions of HIV and AIDS and the vulnerability of the disabled, infirm and those discriminated against on the basis of race or religion remain ever present on the world agenda. At no time must we lose sight of these very real issues faced by a huge proportion of the world's people. We must, in pursuit of a more caring and equitable society, seek to understand and subsequently meet the needs of these vulnerable members of society. It is not sufficient to promote global e-commerce and ever new economic world orders if we do not also tackle the root causes of many of the problems in the developing world. We need to convert these enormous challenges into moments of opportunity. We need to harness the positive forces of globalization, the new knowledge- based economy and the opportunities of trade to bridge the divides that persist throughout each and every continent. The United Nations has taken a leading role in promoting international understanding and agreement in relation to these varied and diverse areas. Indeed, a wide spectrum of activities, international agreements and agencies of the United Nations have been put to good use in the creation of the impetus necessary for change. We must continue in our endeavours to bring 30 people to a common understanding of how this can best be consolidated, not solely through dialogue, but through concrete actions that must necessarily follow. The number and variety of tasks that face the United Nations are by no means small. Malta is, however, convinced that the United Nations is the forum best positioned to provide workable options and long-term solutions to the problems that plague the world and man's relations with it. Last week's Millennium Summit clearly demonstrated the international community's renewed commitment to this unique and indispensable Organization and its vital role in the maintenance of peace and stability, the eradication of poverty, ignorance and disease and the protection of the global environment. If the Millennium Summit charted our course towards making the United Nations a more effective instrument in the hands of the world's peoples, then the Millennium Assembly must come to be remembered as the point in time when the first major decisions were taken to place the Organization firmly on this chosen path. I hope that these will not be merely empty declarations of intent, but that each Government and each of us here present today will endeavour to better our corner of the globe as best we can. My Government remains determined to play its part.I should like to offer the apologies of my Minister, who was to have made this statement today. He has had to travel to Winnipeg, where the future of some of our abducted children will be discussed tomorrow. I bring to you, Mr. President, and all Member States of the United Nations fraternal greetings and best wishes for the new millennium from the Government and people of Uganda. I also bring to you, Sir, and through you to the fifty-fifth session the personal best wishes of the President of the Republic of Uganda, His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni. I should like, at the outset, Sir, to congratulate you on your well-deserved and unanimous election to preside over this session of the General Assembly, which follows in the footsteps of the historic and highly successful Millennium Summit. Your predecessor, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, deserves our heartfelt thanks for successfully presiding over so many special and regular sessions during his tenure as President of the General Assembly. May I also take this opportunity to pay a very special tribute to our illustrious Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the exemplary work he has continued to perform on behalf of the Organization and the peoples of the world. The Secretary-General deserves special recognition by the United Nations family for his tireless efforts to address the numerous challenges that face the United Nations at the dawn of the new era. Uganda warmly welcomes the admission of Tuvalu as the 189th Member of the United Nations. For Uganda, events in Africa, and in particular instability in the Great Lakes region, continue to be of the utmost concern. For this reason, I crave the Assembly's indulgence if I devote a portion of my statement to those problems and challenges which confront us in the Great Lakes region. As the international community is fully aware, the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo poses a major threat to the stability of the Great Lakes region and ultimately the entire African continent. That conflict has its origins in the massive violation of human and democratic rights of the people of the region during the long reign of dictators in a number of countries in the region. Evidence shows that when people are oppressed, sooner or later they will rise and 4 take up arms against their oppressors. This is precisely what we are witnessing in the Great Lakes region. During the 1980s and 1990s a number of dictatorships were overthrown, in spite of their determined attempts to save their regimes by resorting to the most inhuman methods of clinging to power — namely, resort to genocide. This despicable weapon was not only used in Rwanda in 1994, but has also been used to a lesser extent in Uganda, Burundi and the former Zaire. The instability we are witnessing today is thus caused by the continuing struggle of the peoples of the region to proclaim their human and democratic rights. In Uganda the people's struggle for fundamental change ended in 1986, resulting in the establishment of democracy, stability and economic progress which the people of Uganda have enjoyed over the past 14 years. Unfortunately, the instability and civil wars in neighbouring countries have continued to impact negatively on our attempt to consolidate the results of our victory. This has especially been the case when remnants of followers of our former dictators have attempted to form alliances with dictatorial regimes in some neighbouring countries to take advantage of the power vacuum there and establish bases from which to launch desperate, but ultimately futile, attacks on Uganda. As the Government of Uganda has stated before, at various times it cooperated with a number of progressive forces in the region to help the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo free themselves from one of the longest and most oppressive dictatorships in the African continent — I refer to the Mobutu dictatorship. In helping the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we were also hoping to free ourselves from the menace of destabilization, which had become the official policy of the Mobutu regime. That is why in 1997 Uganda found its troops in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. When a new regime came to power in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we signed a protocol of cooperation under which Uganda and Congolese security forces would cooperate to contain the menace caused by the armed groups organized by the remnants of forces of Uganda's former dictators that were operating from Congolese territory. Unfortunately, within a very short period, the new regime in the Democratic Republic of the Congo chose to turn its back on its former allies and form an alliance with the very people who posed a threat to our security. Not only did this regime turn its back against its external allies, it also turned its back on its internal allies, thus provoking a fresh round of civil war in the country within a year. The result was that a number of African countries that had been allies in the struggle against Mobutu now found themselves sucked into the conflict. Fortunately, these countries soon saw the folly of armed confrontation and chose to end the conflict through negotiations. The result was the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement. This Agreement was a major breakthrough in the attempt to establish genuine peace in the region because it addressed the problems of establishing a democratic and accountable government in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and catering for the legitimate security concerns of neighbouring countries. The Agreement still offers the best hope of establishing and maintaining peace in the region. For this reason, Uganda has worked hard to have this Agreement implemented. On 8 April this year, Uganda hosted an important meeting of the Political Committee established under the Agreement. At that meeting, a disengagement plan was adopted under which all the fighting forces in the Democratic Republic of the Congo would disengage under the supervision of the United Nations Organization Mission (MONUC). Unfortunately, it has not been possible to effect the disengagement of forces in accordance with the stipulated calendar because one of the signatories, namely, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, has done everything possible to block the implementation of this disengagement plan, as well as several other aspects of the Lusaka Agreement. On 14 August this year, an important summit of nine countries in the region plus the leaders of all the rebel groups fighting against the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo took place in Lusaka to identify the obstacles to implementation of the Ceasefire Agreement. Their conclusion was that the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo was largely to blame for the current impasse. The principal ways in which the Congolese Government has prevented the implementation of the ceasefire are refusal to participate in the national dialogue, rejection of a distinguished and eminent facilitator who was agreed upon as a result of wide consultations and by consensus, restriction of the freedom of movement of 5 MONUC peace observers, refusal to cooperate with the Joint Military Commission and continued violations of the ceasefire. The leaders of the region have expressed their strong concern at the obstructions created by the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the implementation of the Ceasefire Agreement. If the Democratic Republic of the Congo does not heed the calls of regional leaders, there is a serious risk that the region could become embroiled in another large-scale war. We therefore appeal to the Democratic Republic of the Congo Government to reconsider its position and choose the path of dialogue, with both its internal and external opponents, and to abandon the path of military confrontation. Uganda wishes to reaffirm its full commitment to the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, which offers the best opportunity for bringing this conflict to an end. Uganda pledges its full support for all efforts aimed at ending the conflict and appeals to the international community to give moral and material backing to the Lusaka peace process. Uganda believes that the problems of Burundi are essentially political and internal. As Chairman of the regional peace initiative on Burundi, President Museveni of Uganda has worked tirelessly in seeking a solution to the problem. In this capacity, he has convened and chaired many regional summits. We believe that a formula that creates democracy with security for all the people of Burundi is possible. We wish to place on record our appreciation to the facilitator of the Burundi peace process, former President Nelson Mandela, and his predecessor, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, for their untiring efforts in working towards a peaceful solution to the Burundi problem. Uganda welcomes the agreement signed on 28 August in Arusha by the parties to the Burundi peace process. We regret, however, that a few of the parties did not sign the agreement. Uganda would like to appeal to them to sign the agreement as soon as possible for the sake of the future of the people of Burundi and the Great Lakes region. We call upon the United Nations and the international community to provide the necessary support and resources to enable the agreement to be successfully implemented. Uganda is committed to the goal of general and complete disarmament endorsed by the United Nations at the first special session on disarmament, way back in 1978. It is against this background that we note with concern the failure of the Disarmament Commission to reach an agreement on the convening of the fourth special session devoted to disarmament. The holding of that conference is critical for addressing important issues related to disarmament. It is a matter of deep regret that the Conference on Disarmament has failed to agree on an agenda for two years in a row. Uganda also attaches great importance to the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel land mines. We supported the resolution on illicit trafficking in small arms last year because the proliferation and use of small arms and light weapons remains a major problem in our region. Uganda actively participated in regional initiatives on this matter, which resulted in the adoption of the Nairobi Declaration. We look forward to the international conference on the problem of small arms in all its aspects, scheduled to take place in July 2001. The world has entered the twenty-first century with globalization as the most pervasive economic force to reckon with. Regrettably, the expected benefits accruing from the process are not guaranteed for all countries. For some, it has opened opportunities for rapid growth and development through increased trade and advances in technology. For others, the process has led to increasing income disparity and marginalization in the global economy. The biggest challenge facing us at the dawn of this century, therefore, is to muster the necessary political will to act together and create an enabling environment for the successful integration of the poorer countries into the global economy. Uganda is of the view that the issue of globalization can and should be seriously addressed multilaterally by the United Nations and by other international organizations. We are confident that with the commitment and goodwill of the major trading nations, the establishment of a rule-based multilateral trading system that has been institutionalized in the World Trade Organization will facilitate the integration of developing countries into the global trading system. The challenge of ridding the world of the scourge of abject poverty deserves more attention now than ever before because, as more of the world's population is now enjoying better living standards, the situation of many others in the developing countries, especially the 6 least developed countries, is deteriorating rapidly and dangerously. A larger percentage of the world's population lives on less than a dollar a day today than did a decade ago. The Secretary-General's report reveals that people living in sub-Saharan Africa are almost as poor today as they were 20 years ago. This is an extremely sad commentary on the state of development cooperation. Urgent measures should be undertaken to arrest this deterioration of the living conditions of the people in the developing countries. In Uganda we believe that significant reductions in poverty can be achieved through sustained and broad-based income growth. We further believe that this can be effectively done through modernization of the agricultural sector, which dominates the economy and employs the majority of our population. That is why in the past two years we have been working to develop a comprehensive set of policies for the modernization of agriculture, as part of the Government's broader strategy for poverty eradication. Uganda welcomes and fully endorses the Secretary- General's recommendations on specific actions that need to be taken both nationally and at the international level to reduce the number of people living in extreme poverty. The past decade has witnessed an unabated deterioration in the socio-economic conditions of the least developed countries. A quick review of progress in the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s will show that there have been more setbacks than progress. While the least developed countries have undertaken far-reaching and sometimes painful measures of adjustment and reform, the actions by the international community have fallen short of their commitments to provide adequate external support to complement their efforts. As a result, the least developed countries continue to suffer from the lack of supportive external resources for development, owing to a steady decline in the flow of official development assistance. While it is true that foreign direct investment flows have increased significantly in the past decade, the least developed countries are not yet equipped to attract such investment to a significant extent. High levels of external debt have negatively affected their economies, and despite decades of liberalization most industrialized countries still maintain protectionist measures in their markets, especially for agricultural products and textiles — the two sectors in which developing countries have a recognized comparative advantage. All these factors have had the combined effect of stunting further the economic and social prospects of the least developed countries. In this regard, Uganda strongly supports the Secretary-General in urging the industrialized countries to consider granting duty-free and quota-free access to exports from the least developed countries, as a demonstration of their commitment to the integration of the least developed countries into the global trading system. My delegation also urges the General Assembly to adopt the recommendations of the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development contained in the Bangkok Consensus and Plan of Action for least developed countries. We call upon the leading industrialized countries to live up to their commitments in the context of the agreement they reached in 1999 at the Cologne G-8 Summit. We also call for stronger support for relevant United Nations bodies such as the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) to enable effective implementation of their mandates to assist the least developed countries. With specific reference to the African continent, where 33 of the 48 least developed countries are found, the socio-economic situation is much more precarious despite many efforts by many African countries individually and collectively to lay solid foundations for development. The difficulty in achieving positive results in Africa's development has been further complicated by the severity of Africa's AIDS crisis. We call upon the international community to lend support to Africa's own efforts to realize the objective of the African renaissance, which aims to place the continent at the forefront of human development and progress. The international community should support the efforts of African countries by fulfilling commitments made in the context of the United Nations New Agenda for Development of Africa in the 1990s. These commitments include the reduction of African debt, adequate resource flows, provision of greater market access and assistance in diversification and capacity-building. In this connection, Uganda supports the proposals made by the Secretary-General in his report to this session. I reiterate Uganda's commitment to uphold the values and principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I pledge our 7 Government's continued adherence to international human rights Conventions and norms. In pursuit of an international human rights regime, it is imperative that we establish effective institutions and mechanisms for this purpose. Uganda will continue to support and work towards the establishment of a strong International Criminal Court. Of particular concern to us is the deterrence and punishment of the crime of genocide, which remains a continuing threat in our region. At the national level, in a bid to implement the fundamental rights guaranteed by our Constitution, Ugandans voted on 29 June 2000 in a referendum for a political system of their choice. I take this opportunity to thank the international community for its support for the success of the referendum exercise. I am happy to report that the referendum was declared free and fair by both local and international observers. This experience convinces us that the referendum proposed for Western Sahara should be conducted as soon as possible. It offers the best alternative to the possibility of continued armed conflict. In our struggle to end internal conflict, Parliament enacted the Amnesty Act 2000. Under that Act, an Amnesty Commission has now been established and is operational. The mandate of the Commission is to monitor programmes of demobilization, reintegration and resettlement of returnees, coordinate a programme of sensitization of the general public on the amnesty law, consider and promote appropriate reconciliation mechanisms in the affected areas and promote dialogue and reconciliation in the spirit of the Amnesty Act. There is a programme of reintegration into society, which involves acquisition of skills and a fund to promote self-employment. It is our hope that this process will bring to an end internal conflict and all human rights violations associated with conflict situations. In closing, Uganda believes that as we enter the new century the United Nations should be reformed, equipped and provided with the necessary resources to implement effectively and efficiently the mandates the General Assembly and other principal organs of the Organization have entrusted to it. In this connection, Uganda hopes that the long-drawn-out negotiations on the reform of the Security Council will be finalized at the current session of the General Assembly. We are committed to the position of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) on this matter, and would support Japan and Germany as permanent members of an expanded Security Council, as well as one permanent member each from Africa, Asia and Latin America. Representing and speaking on behalf of the Government of the Dominican Republic, which since 16 August 2000 has been presided over by Mr. Hipólito Mejia on the basis of the votes cast by our people for the Dominican Revolutionary Party, we should like to reaffirm our profound commitment to the principles that gave life to this Organization and to the prospect for its further work as we head into a new millennium. We should like to voice our congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his having convened the historic Millennium Summit on the basis of the report about the role to be played by the United Nations in the twenty-first century, a document which contained an intelligent and pinpointed analysis of the most acute problems of the present and of what is ahead for the international community. The Dominican Republic is convinced that freedom and equality for all States and for all human beings, without any distinctions whatsoever, constitute the underpinnings for real peace and for harmonious and democratic development of the international community. The assessment of the world situation drawn up at the Millennium Summit highlighted that notwithstanding the extraordinary scientific and technological strides made, the development in communications media and the rapid expansion of the wealth of some countries, two thirds of mankind live in conditions which prevent freedom and equality from being a common denominator for all the peoples of the earth. It is all too well known that globalization is not emerging as some magic formula or a panacea to heal wounds, nor as any wondrous invention of the genius of certain sectors of the rich countries. Globalization is the continuation of a process going back centuries in the history of humankind and something which, unfortunately, on the one hand does contribute to the progress and enrichment of some, but on the other hand still leaves us with a developed and an underdeveloped world. It is precisely because of its unequal effects upon the peoples of the world that at the South Summit of the Group of 77 held in Havana, and at the Millennium Summit which took place in this very Hall, we heard with renewed strength a just call for freedom and equality. The breadth and the dizzying speed of the changes which globalization has triggered in recent years have stirred the good conscience of humanity, 15 and, although it appears a paradox, a peaceful rebellion, albeit a distrustful one, is beginning to protest what is seen in all this as just one more form of the traditional domination of the powerful over the weakest. We peoples that had been colonized, and, having gained independence, had to live in permanent defence of our sovereignty and our cultural identity, have developed the kind of sensitivity that allows us to sort out the real consequences of certain historic processes. That explains how, faced with the effects of inescapable globalization, we have reacted critically, determined not to continue to live on the sidelines and not to accept that we should withdraw, unable to achieve the security of a future filled with hope through the exercise of our free will. Globalization must be guided by the conviction that the aspiration of a world free from upheaval can be achieved only by an equitable interdependence which can understand that the current imbalances caused by the requirements and conditions imposed by certain bodies can be met by the underdeveloped countries only by the gradual application of free trade agreements and the elimination of the kind of protectionism that stands in the way of the free access of goods and services to the markets of the developed countries. One single example shall suffice to illustrate the consequences of the indiscriminate opening of the market of an underdeveloped country. In the Dominican Republic thousands and thousands of medium and small-sized companies have gone bankrupt because they could not compete with the avalanche of products from the highly industrialized countries. Peoples whose asymmetry in relation to the developed countries has been affirmed over centuries cannot and will not be able to adapt to being participants benefiting from globalization if they do not receive the kind of support that allows them to attain economic and social objectives that can contribute to overcoming their current underdevelopment. To talk about globalization and to leave the poor countries to their own devices to make all the efforts necessary to come up to the speed of the wealthy countries is a cruel joke. Globalization must be imbued with an effective spirit of solidarity and social justice. Otherwise, underdeveloped humankind may find itself faced with a new version of the economic voracity that is illustrated in the fable of the shark and the sardine. We believe that these concerns are all too legitimate and, first and foremost, foresighted. We must not in the future be forced to find a new word for globalization to brand it as we branded the imperial policies of the past. Globalization is already doing more than give rise to concerns and exacerbate the problems of the poor countries; it also steadily worsens the external debt situation. How many times must we pay that debt? When will we finish paying it? We are convinced that certain aspects of globalization and the consequences of external debt are two sides of the same coin. The indifference to the harm that this ruinous debt burden does to the economies of poor countries makes one doubt the existence of a true spirit of solidarity or a sincere readiness to cooperate. Only forgiving that debt under logical and favourable conditions and through mechanisms guaranteeing effectiveness can give underdeveloped countries the encouragement they need to embark on the path into the new era. Moreover, current price of oil is a further source of distress for those who depend on it for energy production. This year's oil bill for the Dominican Republic will be more than $500 million, which accounts for some 15 per cent of our national budget. This situation — one shared by many other peoples — demands consideration founded on international solidarity and cooperation. When we in the Dominican Republic speak of solidarity and cooperation, we cannot but speak of Haiti. Because we are adjacent to that fraternal people, we know how much it needs the generous, sustained support of the international community. As the President of the Dominican Republic, Mr. Hipólito Mejia, said at the Millennium Summit, the Dominican Republic cannot alone bear the present social burden of hundreds of thousands of Haitian citizens. The Dominican Republic therefore wants a solution in which the international community would be an active participant, one that must be based on human rights and that must be implemented in accordance with the norms and principles that must govern a sound migration policy. But let no one think that we have come here to grumble and to use the General Assembly as a wailing wall. That is by no means true. The Government of the 16 Dominican Republic is absolutely convinced that it is Dominican society itself that must make the greatest effort to achieve development. Mindful of its responsibilities, therefore, the Government of the Dominican Republic accepts the challenge of globalization, because it knows that the first thing is to address the priorities of development, and because it knows also that its greatest efforts must go towards establishing social justice to resolve problems of education, health, the environment, the equality of men and women, children, eliminating poverty, ending drug trafficking, nutrition and steady improvement in human rights and civil liberties. Fortunately for many of the world's peoples, developed countries and international bodies largely understand that the point of globalization must not be to unleash market forces and to bring about protectionism, production subsidies and technical regulation, because such obstacles can only contribute to widening the gulf between rich and poor. Those countries and organizations are working together sincerely to ensure that the benefits of this process will be shared through cooperation involving the comprehensive development of peoples. It was in that spirit and with those concerns in mind that the United Nations proposed the 2001 High-level Intergovernmental Event on Financing for Development. The Dominican Republic has strengthened its ties with the Caribbean, with Central America and with other areas of integration, and we are making our contribution to enhance the possibilities for negotiations, access to foreign markets, technology exchanges and cultural enrichment. Moreover, we believe that South-South cooperation is an indispensable complement to growth-oriented programmes undertaken with developing countries. I turn now to the need to reform the Charter of the Organization. Much has happened since 1945. With undeniable skill, the United Nations bodies of that time dealt with the tasks they faced in the wake of the Second World War. But that was then; now, those bodies do not reflect the realities of a new international community that is larger and more demanding of democratic development. Reform of the Security Council is imperative; the Dominican Republic considers that it must take place in keeping with the sovereign equality of States, equitable geographical distribution and the varying levels of development of peoples. We are convinced that an increase in the number of both permanent and non-permanent members, carried out on the basis of those principles, would enable the General Assembly to play its role as the organ that is truly representative of international democracy. I turn now the establishment of the International Criminal Court, which was a major event. We hope that the Court will be able to mete out justice not only to heads of State, heads of Government and officials who commit war crimes, crimes against humanity or crimes against citizens, but also to those who engage in administrative corruption and theft of State property, something that certainly constitutes a crime in many countries because of the economic and moral harm it causes to their peoples. Because of the desire of the Dominican Republic to be consistent with the historic tradition of its international relations, it wishes to reaffirm its support for the Republic of China in its logical and just aspiration to rejoin the Organization, of which it was a prominent Member for many years. Here, our position reflects a duty born of conscience, not a position that would diminish the rights that the United Nations has recognized others to have. Also linked to our historic tradition is the principle of national sovereignty. Since it won independence on 27 February 1844, the Dominican Republic has held the right of self-determination as an unshakeable article of faith. Thus, when there is talk of also enshrining humanitarian intervention as a right, we find ourselves faced with a situation that demands clear-cut and precise definitions. We request this body to devote to this issue the attention it deserves so that all its Members will participate in clearing up such a worrisome matter. Finally, the Dominican Republic wishes to express its conviction that the dialogue initiated by the Millennium Summit and the positions expressed in the General Assembly will contribute positively to strengthening efforts for peace and brotherhood, which are the essence of the spirit of the United Nations Charter. 17 Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly, and to express my strong conviction that, under your guidance, the work of this session will be conducted successfully. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my great appreciation for the work carried out by your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, and for his competent guidance of the previous session. At the start of the new millennium, Albania, as a sovereign and peace-loving country, is committed to making its modest contribution, in the activities of the community of countries Members of the United Nations, to greater peace, stability, security and economic prosperity. It has tried to do so by creating internal political and economic stability, as well as by pursuing a foreign policy aimed at achieving constructive cooperation with the countries of South- Eastern Europe and beyond. Since last year's session, Albania has been taking further steps towards consolidating its democratic institutions and constitutional order, strengthening and liberalizing its economy and consolidating and ensuring respect for human rights. Because of the efficient measures undertaken by the Albanian Government, and thanks to the help provided by our partners, Albania is recovering from the consequences of last year's conflict in Kosovo. Albania has become an open and safe country for foreign investment. The policies of the Albanian Government to privatize strategic sectors and absorb foreign capital are bearing fruit. The strengthening of security and public order, as well as the fight against organized crime, have reached satisfactory levels that are appreciated not only within my country, but elsewhere. The abrogation of the death penalty and the establishment of the office of Ombudsman have further raised the level of protection of and respect for human rights in Albania. Albania is currently on the eve of local elections, which will be of fundamental importance for the future development of the country not because of the results so much as because of the way in which the elections will be conducted. For this reason, the Albanian Government, in close cooperation with specialized international institutions, such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe, the United Nations Development Programme and others, has made every effort to ensure that these elections are fair, free and democratic. Albania has clearly expressed its intention to play a primary and constructive role in the common attempts to transform the Balkans into a developed and stable region, clearly aiming at European integration. The policy of good-neighbourliness is not simply a requirement of geography but, above all, an eloquent expression of goodwill and mutual interest in the 8 protection of democratic institutions, fundamental freedoms, stability and prosperity in the region. Consequently, the Albanian Government has proceeded towards the creation of stable relations of mutual cooperation with Balkan countries, considering that to be a primary strategy for future European integration. Relations with these countries have been institutionalized not only bilaterally, but also multilaterally. Albania has placed at the core of these relations common economic, political and security interests, as well as respect for human freedoms and rights, including those of national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Albania. It has tried to make inter-Balkan relations follow the model of existing relations among European Union member countries, with the free movement of people, goods and capital. More than a year after the bloody conflict in Kosovo that endangered peace and stability in the region, the Albanian Government is of the opinion that the situation in Kosovo has improved significantly since the beginning of the implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) the deployment of the Kosovo Force (KFOR) and the establishment of the United Nations administration. Hundreds of thousands of refugees have returned home, houses destroyed by the war have been rebuilt, the reconstruction of the economy and of the common administration institutions has begun and the political situation and order in the country have improved significantly. The current situation in Kosovo contradicts the sceptical and nihilistic opinions, expressed here and there, against the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) military intervention in Kosovo and against the establishment of the United Nations administration there. Our memories of what happened in Kosovo a year ago will not fade, but will make us more conscious of the catastrophic consequences that the chauvinistic policy of a totalitarian regime can bring to an innocent civilian population. In order to make a contribution to the founding of a democratic society in Kosovo in which human and national rights are fully respected, we have established very close relations with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, KFOR and their representatives. Albanians, even more than other people in the region, wish for and will welcome the democratization of Serbia, because, historically, they have suffered more than others from Serbian nationalism. Often, however, wishes do not match up with reality, and we have to be realistic. Following very attentively the preparations for local elections in Kosovo, the Albanian Government expresses its conviction that the political forces in Kosovo will conduct their pre-electoral campaign in accordance with democratic principles and values, without acts of political violence. We would also like to express our sincere will for the full participation of the Serb community and of the other minorities in Kosovo in this electoral process because, as we have previously stated, we support a multi-ethnic and multicultural Kosovo. I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the entire international community to apply stronger pressure against the Milosević regime in order to force him to release all 7,000 Albanian political prisoners and hostages being kept in the Serb prisons, to help bring the criminals who caused the massacres against the Kosovar population before the United Nations Tribunal for war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, to strengthen the international police presence and to work on strengthening judicial bodies in order to detect any kind of crime in Kosovo and combat it. I would also like to reiterate that the realization of United Nations goals for the fulfilment of the promises to start the reconstruction of the Kosovar economy is of special importance. It should be included in regional cooperation projects, especially in the framework of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. Although the Balkan political scenery has changed, and the countries of the region are engaged in a process of cooperation, there still exists a source of tension and conflict in the region, a source that has consequences for the countries of the region and beyond. It is Milosević's regime. He was not satisfied by the catastrophic 10-year-long conflicts that he personally set off in the former Yugoslavia; now he is destroying Serbia itself, as well as the remaining Yugoslavia. Next week, presidential and parliamentary elections will be held in Serbia. The current situation there indicates that very little chance exists for them to be free and fair. The recent amendments to the Yugoslav Constitution, the brutal violence against the opposition and the student movement and the 9 censorship and closing down of independent media are explicit facts proving that Milosević may transform these elections into a tool for illegally maintaining power. Like all the rest of the international community, the Albanian Government looks forward to genuine democratic forces coming into power in Serbia, forces that possess new visions for the future of their country and of the whole region. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to thank Mr. Kouchner, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, for the positive developments in Kosovo and for all that he and his staff are doing to stabilize Kosovo and to establish democratic institutions there. As a neighbouring country, Albania closely follows developments in Montenegro. It condemns Milosević's attempts to destabilize that Republic and to undermine the democratic and integrative processes that are being undertaken by the legitimate Montenegrin leadership. Following the good- neighbourliness principle of its foreign policy, the Albanian Government has recently developed intensively its cooperation with Montenegro. Current relations have reached the highest level ever known, having been extended to areas of mutual interest, such as political, economic and trade cooperation, the free movement of people and so forth. It is our intention to further extend and strengthen these relations in the future. The countries in our region are involved in an already irreversible process: Euro-Atlantic integration. Not only the Balkans, but also Western Europe, is now aware of the danger stemming from a divided Europe, of the danger stemming from a Balkan region that is not integrated into the European Union. The regional conflicts of the last decade are more than sufficient to understand this tendency. Stability in the Balkans is not only in the interest of its countries, but also in the interest of the European Union itself. An economically developed and democratically consolidated Balkans cannot exist without a Europeanized Balkans. The European integration of the Balkans and its development consist of an inseparable unity. It is of no importance whether a country tries to protect its democratic institutions, laws, public order or respect human rights; it can never attain the desired success if it is not economically developed. We are conscious that European integration is not an easy process; on the contrary, it is a long and difficult path. Before being integrated into the European Union, all the countries of our region should first be integrated among themselves, and existing societies in the Balkans should demonstrate and reflect the best features of European civilization. In order to achieve this, we should first combat and overcome extreme nationalistic concepts, mentalities and policies, because Europeanization means cooperation, tolerance and integration. The end of the conflict in Kosovo marked a turning point for the future of the Balkans. The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe was the best response to the crisis in the region. Our countries, like the European Union member countries, consider this initiative an instrument and a bridge for the integration of South-Eastern Europe into the European structures. The Albanian Government regards the implementation of the Stability Pact as one of its main priorities. Albania is highly appreciated by its international partners for the engagement and the responsibility it has shown in drafting the feasibility studies for the Stability Pact projects. We hope that the strong political will expressed in Sarajevo last year at the end of the Kosovo conflict will be vigorously followed by the will to finalize financial support for the rapid implementation of the Stability Pact projects. Albania's achievements in its domestic and foreign policy in the year 2000 have only one goal: its further integration within Euro-Atlantic structures. The Albanian people have a clear European orientation, and that is why all Albanian Governments of the last 10 years have enjoyed their total support for their European integration policy. The present Albanian Government, representing and expressing the will of the people, has continuously fulfilled all the required conditions during the last year, aiming at reaching a higher level of relations with the European Union. We hope that in the near future the institutions of the European Union will approve the status report that the Albanian Government presented at Brussels several months ago. This approval will pave the way for the beginning of negotiations to reach Albania's association and stability agreement with the European Union. Albania's acceptance in the World Trade Organization in July this year was also an encouraging and very optimistic event in this respect. 10 The Albanian Government has welcomed the initiative of President Chirac to organize, on behalf of the European Union, a regional summit in Zagreb in November this year. It is another affirmation of common efforts to further advance the democratization and integration processes in the region and the consolidation of security and stability there. The new century has started. We should keep on facing old problems, along with our new challenges. Some of those may be local crises, organized crime, traffic in human beings, terrorism, arms control and so forth, all of which require practical and well-oriented cooperation. Bitter experiences in various regions of the world, such as the Balkans, Africa, South-East Asia and so forth, made the role of such organizations as the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and others more evident. On the other hand, the world has entered the era of globalization. Despite its positive side, globalization is unavoidably accompanied by effects that may bring negative consequences, especially to small and poor countries. In order to avoid these consequences, it is necessary to compile and to implement global strategies, and the United Nations can easily do that. Only a week has passed since one of the most distinguished events for the international community, the Millennium Summit. It was a unique meeting of all the leaders of the world, where they affirmed their goodwill to cooperate in facing the challenges of the new millennium and in strengthening the United Nations. The Albanian Government hails the results of the Summit and expresses its conviction that all United Nations Member countries should unite all their forces for the fulfilment of the commitments embodied in the final Declaration of the Summit. Following is what the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, wrote in his report: We must do more than talk about our future, however. We must start to create it. (A/54/2000, para. 17) It is time to take concrete steps in this direction. It gives me pleasure at the outset of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations to convey to His Excellency our sincerest congratulation for his election to the presidency of this session. His election to this important position reflects the respect of the international community for him personally, as well as the appreciation of the Member States for the positive role played by his country, Finland, in the international arena. I am confident that his presidency of this session will contribute effectively to our efforts to achieve the objectives towards which the international community aspires under the present, delicate international circumstances. I also wish to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia and president of the previous session of the United Nations General Assembly, who managed the affairs of the session with great competence and experience and who deserves our compliments and appreciation. I am also pleased to express my thanks and appreciation to His Excellency, the Secretary-General of the United Nations Mr. Kofi Annan, for his continuous and tireless efforts to achieve peace and enhance security and stability in our contemporary world, as well as for the competence and ability he has demonstrated in leading the affairs of this Organization, relying on his rich and exceptional experience in the international arena. In particular, I wish to commend His Excellency for his sincere and extensive efforts in organizing the Millennium Summit, which, God willing, will contribute to achieving fruitful results with positive effect on our peoples and nations while ushering in a new century full of challenges and opportunities. On this occasion, I wish to welcome the Republic of Tuvalu to the membership of the United Nations, hoping that its membership will enhance the effectiveness of the Organization and its noble objectives. The present session of the General Assembly has followed immediately the Millennium Summit, a unique historical event. World leaders met in a dignified gathering that exemplified the unity of the human race and their collective endeavour to live in peace, security and prosperity. That Summit represented a valuable opportunity to reflect on and to discuss whatever might lead to a better life for humanity. The world leaders pledged in the final Declaration of the Summit to exert all possible efforts to achieve peace, security and disarmament and eradicate poverty and disease. They affirmed the sovereign equality of nations, respect for their territorial integrity and political independence, and non-interference in the internal affairs of States. The Summit also provided a valuable opportunity to 12 evaluate the course of this Organization throughout its history, which has been full of opportunities and challenges, so as to enable it to achieve its declared principles and purposes. In this regard, a thorough and candid evaluation of the role of the United Nations was presented by His Royal Highness Prince Abdullah Bin Abdul-Aziz, the Crown Prince and the head of the Saudi delegation to the Millennium Summit. He discussed the challenges and problems that have impeded the United Nations from achieving the goals and objectives to which the human community aspires. His Royal Highness presented a number of ideas and notions that represent a valuable contribution to efforts aimed at promoting and vitalizing the role of the United Nations. He mentioned the importance of linkage between modernizing the Organization's mechanisms and the nature of the issues it confronts. The effects of these reforms should consider the viability and performance of United Nations bodies in a way that enables the United Nations it to fulfil its required role in dealing effectively with the new developments in modern international relations. One of the most apparent features of the new world order is the emerging phenomenon of globalization, which, as a developed framework for international relations, has occupied a large portion of the current political thought of nations. We view globalization as a phenomenon that should reflect the natural closeness between nations aimed at achieving social justice, overall development, equality among nations, and broadening the scope of cooperation in a manner that serves the issues of peace and security and stability throughout the world. However, and I read here from a statement by His Royal Highness Prince Abdullah Bin Abdul-Aziz at the Millennium Summit: “We hope that the United Nations will support us in standing against a globalization that results in the hegemony of the strong over the weak, increases the causes of the oppression and exploitation of nations, and fosters injustice and inequality in international relations. We particularly warn of the ramifications of unbridled globalization and its use as an umbrella to violate the sovereignty of States and interfere with their internal affairs under a variety of pretexts especially from the angle of human rights issues.” The United Nations call for a civilized dialogue and declaring 2001 a year for Dialogue among Civilizations comes at an appropriate time as a civilized response to those who propagate the themes and doctrines of conflict and inevitable clash of civilizations. A dialogue among civilizations represents, in fact, a constructive beginning towards achieving globalization in its positive sense and its human aspect, something to which all peoples and nations aspire. A dialogue among civilizations would contribute to strengthening the values and principles of understanding and cooperation among cultures and civilizations. It will further promote respect for other religious beliefs and the cultural legacies of other nations in a way that consolidates the principles of peaceful coexistence and proliferates the culture of peace and tolerance. Deviation from the values and principles of justice, equality and non-compliance with the rules of international legitimacy in resolving differences and disputes through peaceful means has led to the proliferation of wars and armed conflicts in many parts of the world. This has caused painful humanitarian suffering that continues to arouse the conscience of the world community. In our region, Israel continues to take intransigent positions and to reject the requirements for peace. This became evident during the recent talks at Camp David where the Israeli side insisted on maintaining positions that are diametrically opposed to the principles of peace that were agreed to in Madrid and to what was stated in United Nations resolutions with respect to the status of Al-Quds Al- Sharif. Both the final communiqué of the Al-Quds Committee, which convened recently in Agadir, Morocco, and the resolution of the Council of the Arab League, adopted at its 114th session, reaffirmed the unshakeable Arab and Islamic positions with respect to the issue of Al-Quds Al-Sharif. It also reaffirmed the impossibility of attaining a durable and comprehensive peace without reaching a just solution to this problem in a way that preserves Arab and Muslim rights, in accordance with United Nations resolutions, and that respects complete Palestinian sovereignty over Al- Quds Al-Sharif. Israel is making a big mistake if it believes that the peace process can proceed without total respect for the legitimate rights of the Palestinians to return to their homeland and establish their own independent State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Al-Quds 13 Al-Sharif is an integral part of the occupied territories and is subject to Security Council resolution 242 (1967). Moreover, a comprehensive peace cannot be achieved without Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Golan to the 4 June 1967 line. We continue to feel for the suffering of the fraternal Iraqi people as a result of the continuing refusal of their Government to abide fully by United Nations resolutions, which would allow for the lifting of the sanctions. In reiterating its concern over the suffering of the Iraqi people, the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia proposed an initiative that would allow Iraq to import all the materials and goods it needed — except those that fall within the context of military items that threaten Iraq's neighbours. If such an initiative had been accepted, the needs of the Iraqi people would have been met and their suffering alleviated. However, the Iraqi Government was swift in rejecting this gesture, and thus it has prolonged the suffering of the Iraqi people. We once again express the hope that the Iraqi Government will act quickly to comply with Security Council resolution 1284 (1999) and the mandate of the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission (UNMOVIC) and of other international committees concerned with the release and repatriation of all Kuwaiti and Saudi prisoners, as well as with the return of Kuwaiti property. We once again reiterate the need to respect Iraq's independence, unity and territorial integrity. We also strongly desire the removal of the causes of tension in the Gulf region. Accordingly, we hope that the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran will cooperate with the efforts of the tripartite committee, which has been entrusted with creating a conducive climate for direct negotiations between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran in order to reach an amicable and acceptable solution to the issue of the three islands. As regards Somalia, my country welcomed the outcome of the national reconciliation conference, which took place in the town of Arta in Djibouti and which included the election of President Abdikassin Salad Hassan. We hope that the other Somali factions will join the reconciliation efforts aimed at promoting national accord and at achieving unity and stability in Somalia. In Afghanistan fierce fighting continues and is denying Afghanistan and its people the fruits of liberation from foreign occupation. The Pakistani-Indian conflict over Jammu and Kashmir remains a source of tension between the two neighbouring countries. We call on both sides to exercise the utmost restraint and to solve the conflict through negotiations, in accordance with United Nations resolutions, which give the people of Jammu and Kashmir the right to self-determination. The continuation of these disputes and armed conflicts — which have claimed the lives of millions, depleted huge quantities of resources and caused destruction and serious damage to the environment — makes it incumbent upon the international community to make every possible effort to put an end to these conflicts and to find peaceful solutions to them. In this regard, we look to the United Nations to make greater efforts to reaffirm its role as a peacemaker and not just a peacekeeper. It has become evident that working to prevent conflicts from erupting is more effective and less costly than concentrating on peacekeeping. In this respect and in compliance with the principle of resolving conflicts through peaceful means, our region witnessed two important events that marked a positive sign in relations between nations. In June 2000, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Republic of Yemen signed the Jeddah agreement establishing final and permanent, international land and sea borders. This ended more than 60 years of border disputes. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has also concluded an agreement with the State of Kuwait for the demarcation of the shallow seas adjacent to the former neutral zone between the two countries. The issue of disarmament is of great concern to my country, and we call for greater efforts in this area, especially as regards weapons of mass destruction. The presence of these weapons represents a great danger to international peace and security. We hope that the nuclear States will fulfil the pledges they made at the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and adhere to the commitment to eradicate their nuclear arsenals. In this context, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is very concerned about Israel's refusal to accede to the Non-Proliferation Treaty and about its decision to keep its nuclear programme outside the scope of international controls. Israel's refusal to adhere to the 14 international will and to become part of this Treaty has aborted all efforts exerted by the peoples and countries of the Middle East to live in a region free from all weapons of mass destruction. Israel is the only country in the region that has yet to accede to the Non- Proliferation Treaty, a fact that has disrupted the balance of security and threatened peace in the region. It is this imperative to stress the need to increase the effectiveness of the Non-Proliferation Treaty by making it universal and mandatory. Cooperation on social and political issues has become a necessity that cannot be avoided or neglected. The economic and social problems of the developing countries make it incumbent upon us all to promote policies that can alleviate the effects of these problems, which in most cases exacerbate tension within and among nations. We believe that the developed countries have an obligation to assist in combating poverty, food scarcities, drought and famine. It is unrealistic to apply the concept of globalization only as a means to liberalize the markets — removing restrictions — without also drafting a framework for action that stresses the need to consider the economic situation in many of the developing countries and to assist them in moving to a stage where they can participate in development. It is therefore important for the industrialized and technically advanced countries to help those developing nations without subjecting them to selective policies in technology transfer. Moreover, globalization should be a two-way street that requires the developed, industrialized nations to liberalize their markets and open them up to products from developing nations. We are truly objective when dealing with environmental issues. We support conducting serious and informed studies based on evidence, studies that take into consideration the process of development in the developing countries. In this regard, we call upon all States to abide by Agenda 21 and urge the industrialized States to honour their international commitments regarding the transfer of environmentally friendly technology to the developing countries. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that we are facing enormous challenges in the new era, which makes it incumbent upon all of us to strive to achieve the maximum possible level of cooperation and solidarity. This is not confined to political and military challenges, but also includes new waves of challenges that result from the contemporary way of life with all its problems and complications and cannot be solved or managed except through organized collective efforts. Our firm belief in the important role of the United Nations in dealing with current issues and in facilitating appropriate international cooperation to address and contain these problems, makes us more determined than ever to support this Organization and help consolidate its constructive role. It is my wish that we enter the new millennium with stronger determination and commitment to our collective goal to establish a secure world where values triumph and justice, equality and peace prevail. Allah says in the Holy Koran: “Help ye one another in righteousness and piety but help ye not one another in sin and rancour.” (The Holy Koran, V:2) May peace and the blessing of Allah be upon you, Sir.It is indeed an honour and a privilege for me to address this body on behalf of the Government and the people of the Republic of Palau. President Kuniwo Nakamura sends his warm greetings and wishes everyone a successful deliberation during this fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. He also wishes to congratulate and welcome the newest Member of the United Nations, our good Pacific neighbour and friend, Tuvalu. During the recently concluded Millennium Summit, we addressed many global issues that pose problems and threats to mankind at the national, regional and international levels. These problems must be seriously looked into by this body and other international and regional organizations so that their solutions may be found or remedies provided to alleviate the suffering they impose on our world and its peoples. These problems – ranging from hunger, poverty, tuberculosis, malaria and the spread of HIV/AIDS to global warming and environmental degradation and vulnerability – are not just the responsibilities of the countries or regions that are most affected; every member of the global community must play its part in order for this planet and its inhabitants to survive these destructive forces. Today, we live in an era in which the production of food is at an all-time high. Advanced technology in the area of food production, improved farming and agricultural methods are readily available and can be successfully applied to widespread areas that are traditionally not suitable to agriculture and farming. In a similar context, medical research and information can and should be shared universally. An integrated approach to intervention in the field of HIV/AIDS is critically called for in many developing countries. Collaborative health-research projects focusing on the biology of this disease and the development of tools for its prevention and control — including diagnostics, drugs and vaccines — must also be made available and affordable to the many third world countries seriously plagued by this disease. As a global community charged with the responsibility for the security of mankind, we must confront the real danger of HIV/AIDS and work collectively towards the eradication of that horrible disease. Uncontrolled and unregulated human activities have affected and will continue to affect our ecosystem, thereby endangering and threatening our very existence. Global warming is a difficult and scientifically complicated phenomenon. Even today, scientists are still divided on this issue, particularly on its causes and effects. While some agree that the emission of greenhouse gases and human and industrial activities are responsible for climate change and global warming, others maintain that the changes occur naturally and that, because the earth is so resilient to such changes, none of these occurrences will have permanent effects. However, as a small island country in the Pacific, Palau has seen and experienced the actual impact of sea level rise, unpredicted weather patterns and an extreme rise in sea water temperature, all of which are signs and indications of global warming and climate change. Many island countries all over the world have also experienced these catastrophic changes. Let us, as world leaders, work individually and collectively towards the real resolution of global warming. The blueprint and foundation of this important task are set 23 forth in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. Let us fulfil our roles. During the Millennium Summit, we also presented institutional issues that should be seriously considered by the entire membership of this Organization. Two further issues were raised by Palau during the Summit: open membership and representational participation in all bodies of the United Nations. The lack of action on these issues on our part, as a body, is quite contrary and detrimental to the objectives of the United Nations. With regard to open membership, Palau believes that any State that meets the traditional and standard definition of independent State should be allowed membership in the United Nations. To that end, it is the position of the Republic of Palau that the contributions of Taiwan to the global community, particularly the developing countries, more than qualify the Republic of China on Taiwan to fully participate in the United Nations as a full-fledged Member. We strongly support full membership of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the United Nations and appeal to all States members of this body for their support. Countless achievements concerning the welfare and security of this planet and its inhabitants have been accomplished by this body since its inception 55 years ago. Many important organs and bodies within the United Nations have been created, and some have even been reorganized since then to further promote and enhance the institution's objectives and goals. However, one very important organ within the United Nations system, the Security Council, has remained virtually unchanged since its inception. Palau truly believes that this important organ should be reorganized and restructured to increase both permanent and non-permanent members in order to strengthen the Council's work and effectiveness. We, therefore, maintain our support of the Millennium Declaration, expressing the determination to intensify our efforts to achieve a more comprehensive reform of the Security Council. Reform can only materialize if we all agree to a common formula by which the number of permanent and non-permanent members should be increased. The Republic of Palau further maintains that any increase in the permanent membership of the Security Council should reflect a Member State's contribution to international peace and security and its capability to effectively carry out the objectives of the Council. A few countries have surely reached that plateau to serve as permanent members of the Security Council. Finally, the Republic of Palau reaffirms its commitment to global partnerships in this world of interdependent economies as an essential step towards the achievement of sustainable development. At the fifty-fourth United Nations General Assembly, the Vice President of the Republic of Palau, His Excellency Thomas Remengesau, Jr., addressed the Assembly and spoke of a tri-partite scientific project involving the United States of America, Japan and Palau that was still in its developmental phase. I am deeply honoured today to inform this Assembly that last month the Government of Japan completed the constructional phase of the project and officially handed over the facility to the Government of the Republic of Palau. The next phase is to furnish the facility with the right equipment and tools necessary for scientific research. When fully completed, the Centre will provide scientists and researchers with a state-of-the-art facility for research in the area of coral reefs and marine organisms. Medical research can and will also be conducted in this facility. In addition, the Centre will serve as a tourist attraction, as different exhibits on marine life and a large aquarium will be on display. At this juncture, I would like to convey our gratitude and thanks to the Governments of Japan and the United States of America for their support in this noble endeavour and welcome any input and contributions from the scientists and researchers of the rest of the Member States to utilize the facility, since we all work towards the common goal of safeguarding and utilizing our environment for the betterment of humanity. The Palau International Coral Reef Centre project is a clear example of cooperation between developed and developing nations in promoting sustainable development. Financial resources and mechanisms, environmental utility and transfer of sound technology, cooperation and capacity-building have been made available to support this important initiative. The Republic of Palau continues to be challenged and challenges every Member State to build on the achievements of the last eight years that have passed since the Rio Summit, to look critically at the problems 24 that are still facing us and to make firm commitments on further progress.  Let me take this opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, and your country, Finland, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I would also like to thank His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia for his work as President of the General 16 Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, and to commend him for the guidance he provided throughout the year. I would also like to commend the Secretary- General, Kofi Annan, for his inspiring contribution to the noble goals of peace, justice, development and the strengthening of our Organization. Last week, world leaders gathered here to direct the Organization for the next century. The golden thread of the Millennium Summit was concern for the well-being of all human beings and the common determination to free each and every nation and each and every human being from want and fear, to sustain the future of humanity and to renew the United Nations accordingly. The common goal of all the discussions was to provide for human security in all its complexity and to uphold the principles of human dignity, equality, equity, solidarity and tolerance at a global level. The United Nations has the obligation to protect the civilian population, particularly the most vulnerable children, women, the elderly and the disabled against gross and systematic violations of human rights and humanitarian law, whether in inter- State or intra-State conflicts. The strengthening of international law is an important element in achieving this goal. Special attention should be given to exploring new methods of conflict prevention, as well as to making better use of those that have proved to have had good results. We should all be engaged more decisively in building a culture of prevention and modernizing and equipping the United Nations for the task. It is also imperative for the United Nations to elaborate a doctrine for humanitarian intervention based on a modern interpretation of the Charter and in line with new international relations and norms. We listened with interest to the statements made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Canada in this Hall on the establishment of an independent international commission on intervention and State sovereignty. There is nothing in the Charter that could possibly justify crimes against the civilian population. Neither is there anything in the Charter that could possibly justify the fact that large parts of the world are still living in poverty or that some States are stagnating due to the debt burden, while the rest of the world is enjoying a state of well-being. Technological and economic development does bring the world together, but globalization also brings problems closer and increases the mutual responsibility for finding solutions to them. At the Millennium Summit, we adopted a comprehensive and far-reaching Declaration. Leaders put before us difficult but achievable goals. Member States should now look carefully into how they can contribute nationally to the implementation of the goals at the global level. As a responsible Member of the Organization, Slovenia intends to prepare its plan of action for the implementation of the goals set out in the Millennium Declaration. I want to take this opportunity today to mention some of the efforts that we intend to make. As a country that has just joined the donor community, Slovenia will look closely at how it can organize better in order to extend more assistance to the developing countries and the countries in the region, thus contributing to the goals regarding development and poverty eradication. We have just signed the Optional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, while the National Assembly is supposed to ratify the Statute of the International Criminal Court by the end of the year. Both documents are among the most important building blocks for ensuring greater protection for civilians in conflict situations. We are looking forward to the early functioning of the International Criminal Court in order to ensure the more effective, equitable and efficient delivery of international justice. Slovenia is determined to help in the process of strengthening the Organization as an indispensable foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and just world. Once again, we want to stress the need for the enlargement of the Security Council in its permanent and elected membership, as well as with regard to the reform of its working methods. The credibility of the United Nations depends on its ability to carry out its responsibilities in full, especially with regard to maintaining peace and security. We therefore welcome and commend the report of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations and we are looking forward to the early implementation of its recommendations. In this context, we believe that the reform of the financing of United Nations peacekeeping operations is a necessary condition for a renewed role for the United Nations in this field. A new scale of assessments that more accurately reflects the capacity to pay should be 17 adopted during this session. I have the honour to announce that the Government of Slovenia has decided to voluntarily relinquish the discount it is no longer entitled to with regard to its financial contribution, and that, starting from next year, it is ready to pay its share for peacekeeping operations in full. Slovenia is also gradually increasing its participation in peacekeeping operations those of the United Nations, as well as regional ones. We are committed to further increasing our support to these operations, not only with military personnel, but also with civilian police and humanitarian personnel. The basic aim of United Nations actions should be to ensure human security, with security being physical, economic and social, rather than legal. We note with satisfaction that the interests of individuals are, indeed, rightly at the very centre of the Millennium Declaration. Slovenia will continue to participate in the group of like-minded countries, which is determined to give full meaning and specific, practical expression to the concept of human security. The problem of the illicit arms flow of small arms and light weapons is such that it requires additional efforts. We hope that the forthcoming international conference on small arms and light weapons will pave the way for regulating and controlling the proliferation of unimpeded access to small arms and light weapons the weapons most used in today's armed conflicts. Member States should also continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of mine action programmes, as well as to strengthen all steps and activities in mine action and mine victim assistance. For its part, Slovenia will continue to support the efforts of its International Trust Fund for Demining and Mine Victim Assistance to extend its activities to the whole region of South-East Europe. The results achieved in recent years are promising for the activities of the Trust Fund in the future. I would also like to briefly address the situation in the region of South-East Europe. We are all aware that there will be no self-sustaining peace and stability in the region without the full cooperation and integration of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. For obvious reasons, this cannot be expected of the current regime in Belgrade. The international community must cooperate with, support and encourage the forces within the country that are striving for democracy, peace, reconciliation, economic recovery and a return to simple normalcy. We share the hopes of seeing the new democratic Federal Republic of Yugoslavia soon as a part of a stable and prosperous South-East Europe. We also share the hopes that this country will soon join us in the United Nations, as well as in the other international and regional organizations, in accordance with the usual procedures and practices for admission of new members to these organizations.  It is a singular honour and privilege for me to be here today to address this session of the General Assembly. On this auspicious occasion, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election to this eminent position. Taking into account your Excellency's wide experience in international affairs, I am confident that you will successfully contribute to the work and deliberations before this Assembly. Permit me also, Mr. President, to pay special tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, who conducted the affairs of the Assembly in a most successful manner during his term of office. Our profound gratitude also goes to our able and dynamic Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, who has shown exemplary leadership and demonstrated efficiency in managing the activities of our Organization. Indeed, he has played a pivotal role in the enhancement of the Organization's aims and objectives, and in furthering peace, stability and international cooperation the world over. I am highly honoured to address this Assembly today in the presence of my colleague and brother, His Excellency Mr. Ismail Omar Guelleh, President of the Republic of Djibouti. In this regard, I would like to pay special tribute for the exceptional role played by His Excellency, his Government and the people of Djibouti in our recently concluded national reconciliation conference, held in Arta, a resort town near Djibouti. In contrast to the previous 12 Somali reconciliation conferences, held in the past 10 years in various capitals, the Arta reconciliation conference was unique and more focused. While the previous reconciliation conferences were based on attempts to reconcile the personal differences and rivalries between power-seeking faction leaders, the Arta conference, on the other hand, concentrated essentially on the constructive engagement and the interaction of the various components of Somali society, such as traditional clan elders and sultans, religious leaders, intellectuals, politicians and representatives of the various sectors of Somali civil society. More than 2,000 delegates from inside and outside the country attended the conference, the deliberations of which continued for more than five months. It was in the context of this transparent process that a consensus was reached on the agenda and criteria for participation in the conference, based on the balanced and equitable representation of the various clans in the country. In pursuance of this innovative approach, the conference conducted its business. This led to the general agreement on the adoption of a Transitional Charter. The Charter, inter alia, provided for the establishment of the basic constitutional organs of the Third Republic of the Somali State: the National 22 Assembly, the President, the Council of Ministers and an independent judiciary. In accordance with these transitional measures, the first organ the conference established was the National Assembly. In turn, the National Assembly elected the President in a fair and free manner in the presence of observers and representatives of the international community. The outcome of the Arta reconciliation conference received an overwhelming endorsement of the Somali people within the country and in the diaspora. Strong messages of support and pledges poured into Arta from all regions of the country and from Somali communities abroad. In contrast to anarchy and civil war, which prevailed in Somalia for the past 10 years, the creation of the National Assembly and the election of a President ushered in a new era for peace and stability and constituted the first step of restoring order and central authority to the country. This was indeed translated into reality during my recent visit to Mogadishu and Baidoa. The spontaneous reaction of the hundreds of thousands of people who welcomed us in both cities demonstrated vividly that they wanted to leave years of civil war behind and open a new era of peace, tranquillity, good governance, restoration of the rule of law and national unity. In this connection, let me emphasize the fact that the majority of the Somali people in the regions that we were not able to visit, including the regions in the northwest and northeast of the country, uphold a shared commitment and optimism for the unity and future progress of the country. With regard to the warlords and individuals who still remain outside the reconciliation process, we express our full preparedness to engage with them in peaceful dialogue, and we call upon them to review their positions, hear the voice of reason, and respect the legitimate aspirations of the Somali people to achieve national unity, social and economic development and durable peace throughout the country. The challenges that the Somali Republic faces today are monumental. My Government is prepared to meet those challenges with a realistic approach. We understand that our country stands today in the midst of a crisis of serious proportions. We shall exercise care, compassion and objectivity to manage that crisis and overcome it in the end. There has been large-scale destruction of the physical infrastructure and resources in both urban and rural areas. Generations of children have not gone to school for almost two decades. A good number of high- level managerial staff and skilled technicians have left the country. The role of the international community in assisting us in peace-building, rehabilitation and reconstruction is therefore of pivotal importance for us. There should be no relaxation by the international community in the overall effort to provide humanitarian and developmental assistance to the Somali Republic. We will engage Somali professionals and technical experts inside and outside the country to be actively involved in all reconstruction programmes and projects. We will also give indigenous and international non-governmental organizations and relevant United Nations agencies all the necessary assistance to be able to contribute effectively to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the country. I would like to emphasize that my Government will place particular emphasis in the immediate future on the following priority areas: first, restoration of peace, stability and national unity, and the formation of an effective security force to consolidate them; secondly, disarmament of the militias and their encampment, subsequent rehabilitation and training in all the regions of the country; and, thirdly, maintenance of law and order through the creation of effective law enforcement agencies and professional courts of law. Within the framework of that policy, my Government will promote and consolidate peace, security and unity in the country at large. At the international level, we reaffirm our unqualified support for the principles and objectives of the United Nations and pledge to cooperate with relevant regional and subregional organizations, namely, the Organization of African Unity, the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development. We shall also maintain and strengthen our relations with the European Union. We would like to open up new vistas of cooperation and economic ties with other organizations, such as the Gulf Cooperation Council and the Association of South-East Asian Nations. My Government will promote strong links of cooperation with the countries of the Horn of Africa 23 and the Red Sea based on the principles of mutual respect, sovereign equality of States and non- interference in the internal affairs of other States, as provided in the Charter of the United Nations. We will promote economic partnership, open borders and common port services among the countries of the Horn of Africa. In conclusion, my delegation requests the Assembly to facilitate the adoption of a resolution under the title “Assistance to the Somali Republic” relating to the following areas of need: first, urgent assistance from Member States for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Somalia; secondly, resumption of sustained economic cooperation with the international community in general and with Member States of the United Nations in particular; and, thirdly, a call on relevant United Nations agencies and organizations to redouble their efforts in providing financial and material assistance to the people of Somalia. Finally, I extend my profound appreciation to the United Nations for the commendable role it has played in the efforts to alleviate the plight of the Somali people during the last 10 years. We also wish to express our appreciation for the efforts of the world body in its continued search for a solution to our political crisis throughout the decade, and for its continued humanitarian support and assistance to the Somali people. I am confident that the United Nations will continue to provide support for the realization of the aspirations of the Somali people to stability, peace and development. ﻿Allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your assumption of the stewardship of this historic Assembly and also to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on his sterling guidance of the Assembly's work during the previous session. The dawn of the new millennium offers us a unique opportunity to reflect on the successes and failures of the United Nations since its inception. It also provides us with an opportunity to dream about the future of humanity in the third millennium. The founders of the United Nations based the Charter on the assertion of human dignity, human rights and the equality of women and men and the aim of promoting better social standards. Indeed, billions of people today enjoy human rights and live in dignity, free from disease, ignorance and fear, enjoying the benefits of technology and scientific advances and able to take full advantage of the process of globalization. Equally, there are billions who are humiliated, degraded and stripped of their innate human dignity and worth by poverty, disease, ignorance, homelessness, hunger and wars. This Assembly, following the very inspiring Millennium Summit, provides us with an opportunity to reflect on the wise words of the leaders of the world and on the Declaration they adopted. Global consensus has at last emerged and confirms that we live in one world and belong to the same human race; therefore, while each Government has the responsibility to take care of its citizens, we all have to work together for the good of humanity as a whole. This means that we have to create a people-centred world that is more caring, with a strong sense of solidarity, where we are all our brothers' and sisters' keepers, if I may borrow those words from the Bible. There is also universal consensus now that while billions of people are being degraded and dehumanized by poverty, disease and hunger, there are indeed enough resources in the world to feed, educate and restore the dignity of all human beings and make this world a better place for all. It is therefore clear that the eradication of hunger and poverty should be the priority of all priorities and should be our collective responsibility. There is also agreement that we have a collective responsibility in dealing with infectious diseases, such as malaria, tuberculosis and sexually transmitted diseases, especially HIV/AIDS. There is a need to mobilize material and human resources, provide better infrastructure, provide health education and ensure access to affordable medicine. There is also consensus that Africa poses the biggest development challenge. The success or failure of the United Nations and of humankind as a whole in this century will be determined by their success in dealing with the African development challenge. We would like to urge the United Nations, in partnership with the Organization of African Unity and regional organizations, to accelerate the work towards peace and stability in many of the countries of our continent, such as Sierra Leone, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Somalia, Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan and Burundi, so that these countries may take their rightful place in the continent, be seized with the needs of their people, promote development, produce and export goods and not be areas of perpetual suffering and war that result in their being the net exporters of refugees. We welcome the Brahimi report and are studying it, as it contains very serious suggestions about the future operations of the United Nations. The United Nations, particularly the Security Council, is humanity's principal agent for collective security and it needs urgent reform so as to be able to live up to this solemn responsibility. The world has changed dramatically and continues to do so. It is imperative that the composition and role of the Security Council reflect that change and not remain obsolete. The Bretton Woods institutions are equally in need of urgent reform in order to discharge their mandate and respond to the new development 12 challenge. The World Trade Organization has to adapt its international trade rules so that they are equitable and fair and take account of global development challenges. It is a source of great concern to the developing countries that, increasingly, decisions are taken outside the United Nations and other global structures by developed and rich countries when these decisions have a great impact on the poorer countries and directly affect the lives of billions of poor people. That is why a partnership between poor and rich countries and dialogue between North and South are so critical. Nuclear weapons still constitute a threat to our planet. We have to pursue the path of universal disarmament and the destruction of all weapons of mass destruction. The need to protect the environment has assumed greater importance and we can succeed only if we work together. The self-determination of the people of East Timor, Western Sahara and Palestine must be a concern to all of us. To this end, we urge the United Nations to do all it can to expedite the processes in East Timor and Western Sahara. We commend the peace efforts in the Middle East and the role of the United States. We would like to pledge our support to the Palestinian and Israeli leaderships as they try to find creative solutions to their problems. They must be urged to take advantage of this unique historic moment, as it seems that a real possibility exists for a solution. The equality of women and men still remains a subject of great concern. All we need to do is look around this Hall to realize how far we are from realizing the vision of the founding Members of the United Nations. Secondly, the feminization of poverty is a big problem. The marginalization of women, both in their countries and in the multilateral forums, means that our countries and organizations, including the United Nations, are functioning at half-capacity and are deprived of the unique qualities, energies and creativity that women would bring. In this context, I cannot forget the plight of Aung San Suu Kyi in Burma. She deserves active support from this gathering and the world. The United Nations was founded in part to make sure that the monsters of fascism and racism should not rear their ugly heads again. Unfortunately, all over the world racism and xenophobia are on the increase. Some countries and regions are responding by developing a new fortress mentality, which does not help the situation. This should flash red warning lights to all of us and activate our utmost vigilance against the scourges of racism and xenophobia. It is only when we turn our backs on racism, xenophobia and other forms of discrimination that we can succeed in building a caring world where we feel diminished by the suffering and hunger of other human beings. It was for this reason that we felt a sense of obligation and agreed to host the world racism Conference next year. Of course, our country and people experienced the most systematic, most brutal and most inhumane form of racism, which the United Nations declared a crime against humanity. We are happy to take our place in the fight against racism in our country and in the world. It is our fervent hope that the Conference will come up with a programme of action against racism, xenophobia and other forms of discrimination. In conclusion, let us all put our collective will, courage and intellectual creativity together in shaping the dream of a better world; a world of solidarity; a world where no child should starve or die of preventable and curable diseases; a world where no child will be deprived of schooling; a world where children will not be sent to war; a world where no child can be a slave or be used as an object for trafficking; a world where children grow up as children and play with toys and do not have to be breadwinners or worry about where their next meal is going to come from; a world where women will enjoy all rights and where the eradication of poverty and war is our collective responsibility. The dream for the new millennium is indeed realisable. If we act with courage and determination, we can turn the hopes of billions across the world into reality.May I start by joining previous speakers in offering, on behalf of the Congolese delegation, warm congratulations to Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election to the presidency of this Millennium General Assembly, as well as to the members of his Bureau. He can be sure that the Congolese delegation is ready and willing to help him accomplish his important and delicate task. I should also like to pay homage to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, for the skill and wisdom with which he carried out his mission. Finally, I should also like to commend Secretary- General Kofi Annan for his devotion and efficiency as he leads our Organization. The Millennium Summit, that great historic gathering, provided the leaders of the planet with an opportunity to debate at the highest level the burning issues of the dawn of the twenty-first century. The heads of State and Government examined the report of the Secretary-General on the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century, and this led to wise and relevant decisions, which we should welcome. It is now up to us to do our utmost to ensure that the conclusions of that report will be translated into action. The reform of the United Nations, the management of globalization, the preservation of the environment, the promotion and protection of human rights, peacekeeping and international security are among the challenges facing humanity, today more than ever before. The reform of the United Nations is of course essential. After more than half a century of existence, our Organization must take account of the will of all Member States to participate in the management of the world's affairs. The United Nations must therefore undergo the transformations required in order to adapt to the requirements of the modern world. This reform is in our opinion both necessary and urgent. With regard to globalization, the question is no longer whether one is in favour of or against this phenomenon. Globalization is a concrete reality that is having an impact on all areas of international relations. Globalization is under way. However, if it is to produce all of its intended benefits, it is necessary to take into account the interests of the developing countries. In this regard, the question of development assistance, debt and access to developed country markets must be envisaged as conditions that will allow more fruitful and mutually beneficial cooperation between the North and South. We are also very much concerned about the environment. Its preservation and protection have been at the centre of the concerns of the United Nations since the world conference in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. It is of the utmost importance for our shared environment to be preserved and managed in conformity with the principles of sustainable development. All of us — developed countries and developing countries, Governments and private sector — all of us must agree to pay the price in a spirit of solidarity in order to remove any pretext for those who sometimes say they have no other choice but to degrade the environment. What is at stake is the indispensable safeguarding of fauna, flora and, above all, the forests of the developing countries. The Congo, an equatorial country, feels a special responsibility in this area. Our Government has made a solemn commitment to the sustainable management and use of our forests. This subject will in fact be the focal point of a ministerial meeting of the African Timber Organization, which will take place in Brazzaville from 9 to 13 October next. With regard to peacekeeping and international security, extensive efforts have been deployed by the United Nations to free humanity of the scourge of war. And although our successes may be remarkable, they are far from meeting the expectations of millions of men, women and children around the world, who await with anguish. That is why we strongly support the 28 proposals in the Brahimi Report and call for their rapid implementation. In addition, we follow with interest and hope the negotiations between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority, and we greatly hope that these efforts will be crowned with success. We also welcome the most recent developments in the Korean Peninsula, all the more so because these express the will and deep aspiration of the Korean people, separated by war, to live together in peace. We also welcome the results achieved in Somalia, thanks to the mediation of Mr. Ismail Omar Guelleh, President of the Republic of Djibouti. We welcome this true renaissance in Somalia and we express our best wishes for the return of a lasting peace in that fraternal country. In Central Africa, determined to strengthen their operational peacekeeping capacities in the face of persistent crises and conflicts that are causing deterioration in the region, the members of the Economic Community of Central African States have decided to establish a council for peace and security (COPAX), whose operational organs will include the rapid reaction mechanism and the multinational peacekeeping force. Above and beyond its preventive mission, COPAX is also a response to the Secretary- General's call for reserve forces. It is important for the international community to contribute to the proper functioning of this sub-regional mechanism for preventive purposes and for managing and settling conflicts in this region of the world, which is the victim of murderous, devastating wars. We would like to take this solemn occasion to express our desire to be fully associated in the search for solutions to the problems of concern to us. Our daily experience — one shared with others — of the consequences of conflicts with neighbours fully justifies this concern; we want to eliminate the sources of conflicts with our neighbours. That is why, whenever it is necessary, the Congo does its utmost to dispel any misunderstandings and to strengthen the links of brotherhood and cooperative relationships with its neighbours. Here, I must draw the attention of the international community to the humanitarian drama that is under way in the north-eastern part of our country as the result of the massive influx of refugees and displaced persons fleeing the renewed fighting in the Democratic Republic of Congo, a country with which we share approximately 2,000 kilometres of border. Given the seriousness of this situation, the Government of the Republic of Congo would like to renew its call for robust assistance for the populations in distress, who have virtually been forgotten by the international community. As the Assembly knows, my country, the Republic of Congo, has also been shaken by internal conflict. I should like to assure the Assembly that we have re-established peace after the signature of the ceasefire agreements and the agreements to cease hostilities last year, thanks to the mediation of El Hadj Omar Bongo, President of the Republic of Gabon. Once again, we should like to express our sincere gratitude to him. Since then, the Congo has turned its face towards the future. The future for us means the consolidation of this peace, national reconciliation, the rebuilding of our country and relaunching the process of democratization. That is why, starting in September of this year, as proscribed by the President of the Republic, Mr. Denis Sassou Nguesso, the Government of the Congo has undertaken a mission to carry out the broadest possible consultations on a draft constitution to be submitted to our transitional Parliament in March 2001. Its adoption will open the way to a constitutional referendum and general elections. Similarly, in the framework of the reconstruction of our country, we have just adopted an interim post- conflict programme for the period 2000-2002. Its implementation requires the mobilization of significant financial resources, and the support of the international community is indispensable for this purpose. We can never reiterate enough that our Organization has demonstrated its utility. Its reform, which is today unavoidable if we are to make it more credible in a world which is undergoing constant change and which will be changed profoundly by globalization, is absolutely necessary. We must have very strong political will to fight against poverty, ignorance, illness, injustice and violence, as well as the degradation and destruction of our planet. This is the only way to guarantee the credibility of the United Nations to the peoples of the United Nations. May the commitments made at the Millennium Summit guide our daily actions, so that the role of the United Nations will indeed be strengthened over the coming century for the well-being of all of humanity. 29 I bring you greetings from the people of the Fiji Islands. On their behalf, I also convey our warm congratulations to you, Mr. President, along with the pledge of my delegation to support you and to closely cooperate with you in ensuring the success of this session. To the Secretary-General, I would like to express the sincere gratitude of the people of Fiji for all that the United Nations family is doing every day, in every part of the globe, to bring relief to those in need, and to promote peace, security and development. I would like to take this opportunity to warmly welcome our neighbour and close friend, Tuvalu, as the newest Member of the United Nations. Fiji is very proud to see the flag of this very important Pacific island country taking its place alongside the other 188 Members of the United Nations. We look forward to the admission in the future of more Pacific island States. I address the Assembly today on behalf of the Interim Administration in Fiji, which I have been entrusted by our President to lead. In the wake of the coup d'Ètat in my country on 19 May this year, and the political crisis it triggered, my Interim Administration has two very important tasks to undertake within the two-year time frame we have set for ourselves. First, it is to return Fiji to constitutional democracy and, secondly, it is to stabilize our economy and to lay the foundation for a return to sustained growth and expansion with increased investment. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those Governments who have shown sympathy and understanding, who recognize the complexities of the situation in Fiji as a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society, and who readily accept that solutions to the present political crisis can be developed within Fiji, by the people of Fiji themselves, without external interference in any form. With the end of the cold war and of the dual division it created in world order, it would seem that a 2 new form of imperialism has emerged along with its twin-brother, neo-colonialism. As if the corrosive influence and impact of their mass culture of consumerism and materialism are not enough, this new form of domination is being propagated by the purists of the liberal democracies, in the name of good governance, human rights, accountability and transparency. In themselves, these are important general standards to ensure the integrity of the system of Government in a country, and the just and fair treatment of its citizens. But what is of concern is that we are being told to apply these standards and values of liberal democracy strictly according to their standards, without regard for the particular or complex circumstances in each country. Our concern is that some of the fundamental principles upon which this unique world Organization was founded 55 years ago are being eroded and violated the principles of respect for national sovereignty and of non-interference in the internal affairs of an independent State. We appreciate that we now live in a closely inter- linked global community, and we are all part of one humankind; we are children of one divine Creator. We must, therefore, be concerned about each other, about our common well being, and common basic standards of rights and freedoms. This, however, does not give a country the right to impose on another, its standards of democratic governance and what it perceives or considers to be right and acceptable. If, within each of our countries, we believe and accept that civilized behaviour among the citizenry can only be one based on mutual respect, mutual understanding, and a willingness to assist and support each other, why is it that some countries today should think that these rules of civilized and respectful behaviour within a country, should not apply in their dealings with other members of the international community of nations. I have raised this point not only because we here at the United Nations should be ever watchful of this disturbing negative trend, but also to remind my own country's friends and neighbours that stridency of political rhetoric, smart sanctions and threats of more sanctions will not really assist us in bringing about a speedy and amicable resolution to our political situation. In fact, the very opposite is true; they have only served to harden attitudes of one community against the other. I, therefore, make a plea to Members of the United Nations to show greater understanding of, and sensitivity to, the complexities of the situation in Fiji. We are a country of many communities and many cultures. All have contributed to Fiji's development. We have all accepted each other as citizens and as communities, and Fiji is our common and permanent home. But we also have peculiar features, which bear directly on inter-communal relationships within our society. We have a total population of around 800,000. Indigenous Fijians and Rotumans make up 52 per cent and are growing at 1.8 per cent every year. The second major ethnic group is our Indian community. They make up 43 per cent of the population, but with a low birth rate and emigration, this is continuing to decrease at 0.3 per cent each year. The other communities in Fiji are Europeans, Chinese and Pacific Islanders. Ethnicity is only one basis of distinction and difference in Fiji. Then there is land ownership. The indigenous Fijians and Rotumans own, by custom, 84 per cent of all land in Fiji. Much of the best of this, however, is on lease for various purposes, residential, commercial and agricultural, and more than 60 per cent of the tenants are members of our Indian community. Most of the agricultural leases are sugar cane farming leases, and more than 75 per cent of these are held by Indian tenants, and most of these tenants have lived on their leased land for three generations. In our urban areas, the situation is the reverse. The majority of property owners, of businesses, of those in the professions, of those working for a regular income, are non-Fijians and mostly Indians. In religion, more than 57 per cent of the population, the indigenous Fijians and Rotumans, and the other minority communities, are mostly Christians. On the other hand, the remaining 43 per cent, the members of the Indian community mostly belong to the Hindu, Muslim and other faiths. Then there are our culture and value systems. Indigenous Fijians and Rotumans have a hierarchical social structure. Traditional hereditary chiefs and commoners alike have their place and role in society and are bound together by reciprocal obligations of 3 loyalty, obedience, and of sharing with, and caring for, each other and everyone in the community. Fijians value their democratic rights as individuals, but as a community they know their place in their traditional society. In our Indian and other communities people are much more individually based. There is, therefore, a greater consciousness of and emphasis on individual rights and freedoms the right to equality, the importance of education, success in professional life and the security of property rights. We all live together side by side in Fiji, yet we remain apart, separated by our ethnicity, religion, cultural differences and value systems. We communicate with each other, not through the languages of our communities, but through the English language. With regard to our general standards of living, even though indigenous Fijians and Rotumans own 84 per cent of the land in Fiji, they have, on average, the lowest level of household income, and they also lag well behind the other communities in almost every aspect of life in a rapidly expanding market-based economy. I have explained all this to highlight the delicate and sensitive nature of our multi-ethnic and multicultural society in Fiji. The crux of our political crisis in Fiji is that the indigenous Fijian and Rotuman communities felt threatened by certain policies which the non-indigenous leadership of the People's Coalition Government had implemented following their decisive victory in our national elections in May 1999. It was this fear and anxiety about their future as the world's only indigenous Fijian and Rotuman community of just over 420,000 people that led to mass demonstrations and ultimately the coup d'Ètat on 19 May this year. It also manifested itself in the mass looting of shops, the destruction of property and threats to people and their families. Unfortunately, and tragically, the victims were mainly members of our Indian community. It was in this serious and deteriorating law and order situation that the Fiji military forces responded to a request from our police to take direct control of law and order and the protection of citizens. To facilitate this, on 29 May the Fiji military forces abrogated our 1997 Constitution. However, as the civilian interim Administration, we have ourselves taken over from the army, and, as I have said, we are firmly committed to returning Fiji to constitutional parliamentary democracy. We intend to promulgate a new constitution in August next year. General elections will then follow within 12 months. The new constitution is to be prepared by a constitution commission, which we shall appoint early next month. It will be representative of all our communities and will consult widely throughout the country, giving the public at large every opportunity to submit their advice and recommendations on the new constitution. I should also mention a new initiative I have taken to deal with the inter-ethnic crisis in Fiji: the establishment of a Ministry of National Reconciliation and Unity, together with a Council for National Reconciliation and Unity. It is my sincere hope that the Council will bring together the representatives of the various communities in our rich, multicultural society, as well as representatives of the various sections of the wider community, including employers, trade unions and civil society, to discuss and make recommendations on various ways by which we can promote greater intercommunal understanding and cooperation. What we have realized is that it is not enough simply to focus attention on the constitution as the framework for our different communities in Fiji to live together peacefully and harmoniously. We need to do more. We have to build and reinforce foundations for living together in all aspects of our lives in our multi- ethnic and multicultural society. We are making good progress in education, and proposals are now under consideration to broaden the curriculum in schools to include compulsory study of the Fijian language, Fijian culture and the ethno-history and ethno-geography of Fiji. We also need to encourage and promote more social interaction and cohesion at the neighbourhood and community level. Most important, it is my sincere hope that the Council for National Reconciliation and Unity will develop a consensus on national leadership and power-sharing in Fiji. I believe sincerely that the most enduring foundation for unity in Fiji is one that is built in a spirit of give and take, of justice and fairness for all and of responsibility for one another. Very recently the United Nations launched a Decade, from January 1995 to December 2004, on the theme, Indigenous people: a new partnership, which seeks the formation of new relationships, founded on mutual respect and understanding between indigenous peoples and States and the United Nations. In the context of Fiji, what we hope to build is a new 4 partnership between the indigenous Fijian and Rotuman communities and the other communities, as the basis of living together in our multi-ethnic and multicultural society in the twenty-first century. I again assure the international community that within the two years of our transitional Administration we shall return Fiji to constitutional democracy. A new constitution will address the concerns of indigenous Fijians and Rotumans about their future. At the same time, however, it will also maintain and protect the equal fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens and groups, without distinction on the basis of ethnicity, religion, culture, gender, or economic and social status. Indeed, as the interim Prime Minister in the transitional Administration in Fiji, I am committed to building a united Fiji with a multi-ethnic and multicultural society in which all the different communities can live together in peace, harmony and prosperity, in which the aspirations of the Fijians and Rotumans are realized and the paramountcy of their interests is secure and in which the provision of important social services, such as education and health, to all our communities is a priority, so that the quality of life and standard of living of all our people are continuously improving. Fiji commends and supports the Brahimi report (A/55/305) on peacekeeping. It is a timely and thoughtful report which, if implemented, will considerably enhance the ability of the United Nations to carry out its peacekeeping tasks. With regard to Fiji's continuing participation in United Nations peacekeeping activities, I am pleased to confirm our positive response to the Secretary-General's request for a further increase in our troops serving in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon. In that connection, I commend the efforts of all those involved in the Middle East peace process. Fiji earnestly hopes that the negotiations will be successful in resolving longstanding differences and bring about long-term peace in the region. We in Fiji have been greatly inspired by the positive developments on the Korean peninsula, with the growing rapprochement between the South and the North. We express the hope that the same spirit of goodwill and readiness to enter into dialogue will also spread to the great country of China, between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan. With regard to the very important country of Japan, I reaffirm Fiji's support for Japan's admission as a permanent member of the Security Council. The Secretary-General's report (A/54/2000), We the Peoples has inspired the entire United Nations community with its vision of a more humane and more holistic future for our children and our world. We agree entirely that the United Nations should focus not just on the relationship between and among States, but, increasingly, on the well-being and development of the peoples of this world. Once again, I extend my congratulations to you, Mr. President, and best wishes for a successful Millennium Assembly. I would like to convey our warm congratulations to Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election to the presidency of this fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I wish also to extend our greetings to Tuvalu as a new Member of the United Nations. This year's session of the General Assembly is of special significance, as it is taking place right after the Millennium Summit. The Summit marked an important milestone for the United Nations in the discharge of the lofty responsibilities of the Organization and its Member States towards the future of humankind. The Millennium Declaration adopted by the Summit points out humanity's most pressing issues and the Organization's primary priorities and directions at the beginning of this new era. Thus the Millennium Declaration can be considered a new charter and platform of action of the United Nations. The question now confronting the international community is how to translate the Millennium Declaration into reality. This session of the General Assembly must mark the beginning of a new awareness and determination, to be demonstrated by concrete results. Only by so doing can we further consolidate the confidence of the world's people in the work of the United Nations, the largest Organization on our planet. The realization of the Millennium Declaration will be a long process, but not a simple one. It will require the strong determination and efforts of each country, the international community and the United Nations, especially since globalization is having negative effects, leading to the uneven distribution of opportunities and benefits at the expense of developing countries. Poverty eradication and development must be accorded primary priority and supported so that we can achieve the targets set by the Millennium Summit, including the target to halve, by the year 2015, the current proportion of the world's poor people, endeavouring to make the right to development a reality for everyone. Among human rights, the right to development is of paramount importance. With poverty and without development, there can be no peace and stability, let alone human rights. On the other hand, the consolidation of international peace and security will help to create a stable, enabling environment for development and poverty eradication, in each country and each region, as well as throughout the world. To achieve development and poverty eradication, the first decisive requirement is for countries to enhance their efforts and adopt suitable policies and programmes aimed at making the fullest use of their resources and potential, while at the same time fully mobilizing and effectively utilizing resources from outside. The United Nations, for its part, should strengthen its capacity and direct the necessary resources necessary to support the poverty-eradication efforts of the Member States. Another extremely important point is that the developed and industrialized countries, as well as economic centres, must further enhance their assistance to developing countries in their endeavour to achieve development and poverty eradication. That should include debt-relief and write-off measures and an increase in official development assistance to 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product, to which they have committed themselves. The objectives set out in the Millennium Declaration have long been considered by Viet Nam as its primary policy priorities. For example, through our own determined efforts and with the assistance of the United Nations and other countries, we have reduced the poverty rate, according to Viet Nam's criteria, to 11 per cent in 2000 from 30 per cent in 1992. We hope that this support and assistance will be further enhanced to facilitate Viet Nam's consolidation of the achievements recorded. In the final analysis, all of these issues are aimed at serving the human being. Human resources and cultural development are two closely related aspects within the overall programme of development and poverty eradication. They are therefore both the goal and the driving force of development. This is the lesson that we can draw from the experience of many decades. It needs to be given appropriate and close attention in the policies of all countries. Those objectives have been reflected also in Vision 2020 of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and in the Hanoi Programme of Action. They include the expansion of cooperation in South-East Asia and in East Asia and the building of development triangles and quadrangles crossing poor regions. Concrete examples include the promising initiatives of the East-West corridor for development and the proclamation of the first decade of the twenty- first century as the Decade of Greater Mekong Subregion Development Cooperation, a proclamation which is supported by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). Those programmes are fully compatible with the directives contained in the Millennium Declaration, and they should therefore be properly supported by the United Nations and by the international community. Viet Nam and ASEAN will also contribute to further advances along this path. In many regions of the world, protracted conflicts continue, causing instability and hindering the efforts of those regions and the countries in them to eradicate poverty eradication and attain development. Viet Nam and ASEAN support the resolution of disputes by peaceful means, without interference or imposition, so as to improve and consolidate regional peace, and not to further complicate the situation and adversely affect the confidence of the peoples of the countries concerned in the endeavours of the international community. Our common responsibility is therefore to guarantee that there will no repetition of interference of the kind that occurred recently in violation of the United Nations Charter and to put an end to the embargoes that have imposed untold sufferings on the peoples of Cuba and Iraq. Greater efforts should be made to further enhance disarmament, especially disarmament relating to nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, and to curb the growing danger of a new arms race, including attempts to deploy new missile systems. In South-East Asia and in East Asia, the ASEAN countries have been leading the effort to build a region of amity, cooperation and prosperity, free from nuclear weapons; to resolve outstanding issues in the region; to implement the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South-East Asia and the Treaty on the South-East Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone; and to promote the ASEAN Regional Forum for dialogue and cooperation with other countries and organizations. In this field, confidence-building measures should be enhanced on the basis of strict respect for the principles of non- interference in the internal affairs of other States, and of the preservation of the national and cultural identity of each country and of each region as a whole. Viet Nam and ASEAN, bilaterally or through the Regional Forum, will further promote efforts to develop a regional code of conduct on the South China Sea between ASEAN and China. We fully support the 1992 ASEAN Declaration on principles for resolving 24 disputes in the South China Sea, and we welcome recent positive developments on the Korean peninsula. In order to implement the new major directives of the Millennium Summit and to follow up the momentum created by it, the General Assembly should, at this session, further enhance the process of reforming, revitalizing and democratizing the United Nations. Viet Nam supports the restoration and strengthening of the central position of the General Assembly, an organ that represents all Member States on the basis of sovereign equality. The reform of the United Nations and most important, the reform of the structure, composition and decision-making process of the Security Council ó is the responsibility of all Member States. Reform of the Security Council should be based on the principles of the United Nations Charter. It should ensure increased representativeness, democracy and equitable geographical distribution, through which developing countries will be represented appropriately and will participate fully in the Council's decisions on important matters of world peace and security. Viet Nam supports expansion in both categories of Council membership, permanent and non-permanent. Regarding the increase in the permanent membership, the general package to be agreed upon should ensure that developing countries from the three continents of Asia, Africa and Latin America are represented; and it may also take into account the inclusion of some developing countries that can play a significant role and of certain developed countries that have made major financial and material contributions to the United Nations. Such countries would include India, Japan and Germany. Now more than ever before, the United Nations must ensure that it can demonstrate the ability to reform itself and move forward with tangible steps. We need to act, and to ensure that the reform reflects the abundant vitality of the United Nations. As it participates in this session, Viet Nam shares the common resolve to implement the historic Millennium Declaration to build a just and better world and a worthier and more effective United Nations. Fully aware of its responsibility as a Member State towards the United Nations and towards the international community, Viet Nam has for many years been making an effort to attain the common goals of mankind and of the United Nations, and it will continue to do so in the future. A very recent vivid example was the proposal put forward by the President of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam at the Millennium Summit, recommending that the first decade of the twenty-first century be proclaimed a decade of the greatest efforts towards development and poverty eradication. In its capacity as a Member of the United Nations and as Chairman of ASEAN, Viet Nam will do its utmost to contribute actively to the development of the United Nations in general and of ASEAN in particular, and to promote cooperation between Viet Nam and the United Nations as well as between ASEAN and the United Nations. We wish at the same time to develop close and effective cooperation with other Member States and with organizations of the United Nations.I begin by joining others who have congratulated you, Mr. President, on your election. I also assure you of the New Zealand delegation's full cooperation as you carry out your important duties. I also welcome the admission last week of our neighbour and friend Tuvalu into the United Nations. The admission of four new Pacific nations in the space of a year contributes to the truly universal character of the Organization. This general debate is taking place at the start of a new century and a new millennium. Secretary- General Kofi Annan has called upon the Member States of the United Nations to harness the symbolic power of the millennium to meet the real and urgent needs of people in every part of the world. This is an appropriate time to recommit ourselves to the beliefs, the values and the principles that led to the birth of the Organization 55 years ago. Like many other Members of the Organization, New Zealand is a small country that tries to take a principled and independent view of the world. In 1945, in San Francisco, we played an active part through the Labour Prime Minister of the day, Peter Fraser, in framing the Charter in which heads of State and Government reaffirmed their faith here last week. We have always viewed the maintenance of international peace and security, and the practical task of peacekeeping, as key roles of the United Nations. We are currently making our largest-ever contribution to the United Nations peacekeeping operation in East Timor. This commitment underlines our full support for the central role of the United Nations in building a stable, democratic and economically viable East Timor in partnership with its people. So do the non-military personnel and development assistance we have provided to help the East Timorese create essential services. Just over a year ago, the East Timorese people voted overwhelmingly for an independent future, and I had the privilege of being part of the United Nations Mission in East Timor (UNAMET) group that oversaw that electoral process. We recall the horrors which followed as pro-integration militias laid waste to the territory, slaughtered innocent people and forced thousands of East Timorese into West Timor. Relative calm and stability has been restored in most of East Timor, and we remember here today the sacrifices made by peacekeepers from Australia, Bangladesh, Nepal and my own country who in recent 24 months laid down their lives to help achieve this. But the militias continue to hold sway in the border areas among the refugees in West Timor. Unless brought under control, these militias will destabilize both West and East Timor. The murder last week of three United Nations humanitarian workers in Atambua in West Timor repelled us all. New Zealand was able to respond quickly, along with Australia, to the United Nations call for help in evacuating their colleagues and non- governmental organization personnel from Atambua. We committed helicopters with security and medical elements from our forces serving on the border with the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET). This airborne evacuation, which had the cooperation of Indonesian forces, was successful. But the pain and the outrage we feel at the murder of three United Nations humanitarian workers remains undiminished. The Security Council, in its resolution 1319 (2000), insisted that the Government of Indonesia disarm and disband the militia immediately to ensure safety and security in the refugee camps and for humanitarian workers, and to prevent cross-border incursions into East Timor. It also called for those who have carried out attacks on international personnel to be brought to justice. These are binding obligations. The world awaits action to implement them without further delay. Besides East Timor, New Zealand is at present contributing to 12 other peacekeeping operations, including in Kosovo, on the borders of Syria, Israel and Lebanon, in the Prevlaka peninsula and in Sierra Leone. New Zealand personnel also serve with the Peace Monitoring Group in Bougainville, the Multinational Force Organization (MFO) in Sinai and with the Stabilization Force (SFOR) in Bosnia. Being conscious of the many challenges faced by the United Nations in meeting its peacekeeping responsibilities, we greatly welcome the Brahimi report. We trust that the report's important recommendations will receive serious and expeditious consideration during this Millennium Assembly session, with a view to their early implementation. As the Brahimi report points out, weak mandates and poor resourcing underlie most of those operations which did not succeed in their objectives. We are concerned too at the tendency to rely overly on “coalitions of the willing” to carry out operations that should be undertaken by the United Nations. The failure of some Member States to pay their assessed contributions on time, in full and without conditions imposes an impossible burden on the Organization and on troop contributors. We agree that the scale of assessments for peacekeeping needs revision to make it more equitable and transparent. Any revision must be established in accordance with the longstanding principle of apportioning expenses according to Member States' capacity to pay. Heads of State or Government agreed at the Millennium Summit to intensify their efforts to achieve a comprehensive reform of the Security Council in all its aspects. In the past seven years of debate on this matter, it has been shown just how difficult an issue it is, especially in regard to how the Council might be enlarged. There is no agreement on this aspect at this time. And yet I am sure that most Member States would agree that the Council must be made more representative of today's membership as well as more transparent in its working methods and more democratic in its decision-making. If there is to be progress towards an overall package deal on reform, then compromises will have to be made. At the heart of any reform, in New Zealand's view, must be the curtailment of the veto, if indeed it cannot be eliminated. We have argued this case since 1945, and we believe that it is even more relevant today. A device which 50 years ago might have had the utility of preventing the permanent members from using the Organization to make war on one another has in recent times served to frustrate the will of the wider membership. I believe there is very broad agreement in the General Assembly on the need to deal with the veto urgently, so that the Security Council can be more effective in carrying out its important responsibilities. I would not want to suggest that there has been no progress at all on Council reform. There have, in fact, been some major steps forward in opening up the Council's meetings and briefings to participation by non-members. We are grateful for that. I would also like to reaffirm New Zealand's strong support for the Open-ended Working Group on Security Council reform, whose deliberations have contributed to this progress. In our view, the Working Group continues to be the appropriate forum in which to pursue efforts aimed at reforming the Council, because it is essential for the health of the Organization that any reform 25 package enjoy the widest support and buy-in. Council reform is too important a matter for back-room deals. The Millennium Declaration contains some important guidance on human rights, democracy and good governance. For example, all countries are enjoined to strengthen their capacity to implement the principles and practices of democracy and respect for human rights, including minority rights. This could not be more timely for my own region, the South Pacific, where over the past year we have seen the collapse of democracy and governance in some countries in the face of disputes over land and economic disparities and as a result of ethnic tensions. There are no easy solutions to some of the problems the region faces, but one thing is clear, and that is that the answer to these problems is not to adopt political systems that discriminate against particular ethnic groups, as some in Fiji this year have sought to do. To do so simply breeds a deeper sense of frustration and exclusion, which is a recipe for further instability. Small States, especially small developing countries like our neighbours in the Pacific, face particular challenges from globalization. They are uniquely vulnerable to external impacts. We need to find fresh and more effective means to development. It is essential to help countries build for themselves inclusive and democratic forms of government that in turn take account of cultural values. Underpinning this must be robust and accountable institutions, respect for the rule of law, independence of the judiciary, an effective press, strong civil society and, above all, greater public education to foster a more widespread understanding of democratic values and processes. The Millennium Summit provided heads of State or Government the opportunity to take action on a range of treaties which are fundamental to the development of international human rights law and international humanitarian law. My Prime Minister took action in respect of six, and I record here in particular New Zealand's ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, and the two Optional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The practices of child prostitution, child pornography and the appalling exploitation of children to fight wars are a disgrace and a crime against humanity which must be expunged. We encourage others also to sign and ratify these agreements. I should also add that we greatly welcome the recent decision by the Economic and Social Council to establish a Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues. At the Millennium Summit, world leaders agreed to strive for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons. The outcome of the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in May, where the five nuclear-weapon States gave an unequivocal political undertaking to accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals, demonstrates a new determination to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons. This is a matter of real urgency. We must promote the implementation of the new commitments. New Zealand, with its new agenda partners, will submit a draft resolution during this session of the General Assembly. New Zealand will also, in partnership with Brazil, promote a southern hemisphere free of nuclear weapons. In addition, we will, along with Australia, Mexico and Japan, urge all countries that have yet to do so to sign and ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty. We will also support further preparations for the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects and join calls for adherence to the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. New Zealand urges caution regarding decisions on missile developments that could impact negatively on nuclear disarmament, lead to a new nuclear arms race or be inconsistent with the commitment to the total elimination of nuclear weapons. This is no time for complacency. The United Nations disarmament and arms-control machinery must engage again in negotiations and other work on the new programme of action agreed at the NPT Conference. Leaders also declared their resolve to minimize the adverse effects of United Nations economic sanctions on innocent populations. Sanctions are an important tool at the Security Council's disposal to encourage compliance with its resolutions, but they must be appropriately targeted for maximum effect. They should not impose blanket measures which harm 26 innocent populations and even strengthen the grip of despotic regimes. We support efforts within the Organization to develop proposals for smarter, more effective sanctions which apply pressure where it we will have maximum impact. The Millennium Declaration also speaks of the need to protect our common environment. My Prime Minister announced during the Summit our intention to become party to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by mid-2002. I also wish to recall a particular achievement over the past year in the holding of the inaugural session of the United Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Ocean Affairs and the law of the sea. This is a significant step forward in providing an appropriate forum for discussion of cross- cutting oceans issues. The success of this process should be judged by the extent to which there is enhanced global understanding of oceans issues and an increased willingness to cooperate and coordinate cross-sectorally to address them. Finally, the Millennium Declaration sets some key goals for development and poverty eradication and urges meeting the special needs of Africa. This year, New Zealand was able to increase its core funding of the United Nations Development Programme by more than a third and of the United Nations Children's Fund by almost a half. We believe that the United Nations has a key role to play in the coordination of official development assistance delivery. The preparations for the event on financing for development are an excellent demonstration of leadership by the Organization and a significant step forward in furthering cooperation with the Bretton Woods institutions. The crushing and seemingly never-ending debt burden, especially on the countries of Africa, must be urgently reduced. We must also address more effectively the scourge of HIV/AIDS. Leaders at last week's Summit provided this Millennium Assembly with a clear direction and a strong mandate. Our countries have delegated us the responsibility to realize that vision of a better world and we must ensure through our efforts and determination that we do not fail them.Allow me at the outset to congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri on his well-deserved election to preside over the work of the General Assembly, which attests both to his outstanding personal qualities and to the admiration that the international community has for his country, Finland. Allow me also to express our gratitude to the outgoing President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for his excellent work. Just a week ago, in this same Hall, our heads of State or Government held the Millennium Summit. That historic event served as the framework for an in- depth consideration of the role of the United Nations in the next century and for the reiteration, at the highest political level, of the universal support for this Organization. It is now up to us to elaborate on our leaders' observations and determine what is necessary to build a more prosperous future, a more just society and an increasingly human civilization. At the outset of the new millennium, scientific and technological achievements in all fields are allowing us to glimpse an ever-brighter future. However, a double threat exists to progress towards that goal. On one hand, it is endangered by uneven growth, which threatens to deepen the divide between the wealthiest and the poorest. More effective measures must be adopted to create a more just and equitable society and international community. On the other hand, the future is also threatened by the temptation of absolute materialism, which can be understood as the danger of reducing development to the mere satisfaction of material needs. The risk of transforming the human being into a commodity and the temptation to seek wealth instead of happiness represent a continuing threat. We must establish a new society whose goal should be the promotion of the well-being of all, as reflected in their full physical, intellectual and spiritual development. We must create a society centred on ideas, creativity and abilities, and not on power or wealth. The United Nations can and should play a central role in the construction of this new society. However, we must note, honestly and courageously, that so far the United Nations and the international community as a whole have been held back by innumerable constraints and restrictions and known many failures. More than 50 years ago, at the founding of this Organization, we committed ourselves to eradicating the scourge of war, and we undertook to promote social progress and better living conditions for all. Unfortunately, though, to date, the United Nations has been unable to respond fully to these pleas. We react to political and military crises with hollow statements to the press. We condemn gross violations of human rights with procedural resolutions, which are then forgotten on our shelves. We create organs, committees and tribunals without any real capacity for action and lacking the necessary resources to fulfil their mandates. We convene summits, conferences and meetings that limit themselves to repeating empty declarations and passing commitments. We send military observers who are unable to maintain peace because we do not provide them with the necessary resources or political support. Over and over again we adopt inadequate measures to resolve crises, hoping that they will perform miracles. We send international experts with development programmes that respond neither to the needs nor the desires of their recipients. This Organization has imposed sanctions that affect innocent civilians while at the same time inadvertently strengthening criminal regimes. We recognize, of course, that many of the United Nations activities have been successful and praiseworthy. We cannot overlook the work of the 22 Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees or of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) in favour of victims of war and of children, nor can we forget the heroic sacrifice of many Blue Helmets and humanitarian personnel. We must always keep in mind the valuable mediation efforts and good offices provided to defuse armed conflicts. We must learn from those peacekeeping operations that have been crowned with success in spite of all of the difficulties. We must recall and respect the gradual codification of human rights and of the need to provide the highest possible standards of living. But the world expects greater leadership from the United Nations. The world's peoples are calling for firm and decisive action on the part of the international community. Humanity is looking to us to fulfil the lofty goals that we set for ourselves when we founded this Organization. For these reasons, new bases must be established for the actions of the United Nations. The Organization must be provided with a renewed political and philosophical paradigm that will enable it to garner the political and material support it needs from all States in order effectively to achieve its goals. Today the United Nations requires all of our support. Each one of us is obliged, individually and collectively, to provide the best living conditions possible to all our fellow citizens. The primary objective of the United Nations in the twenty-first century must be to promote full respect for human rights. More than 50 years after the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the continuing violation of those rights, through inexcusable killings for political, religious or ethnic motives and through the displacement of millions of refugees and internally displaced persons, is a matter for profound concern. We are distressed also by the fact that thousands perish daily of starvation or easily curable diseases. We are concerned at the fact that thousands of persons are still persecuted or incarcerated because of their political opinions and that for those reasons hundreds are subject to the most degrading torture or are forced to live in extreme poverty. The persistence of war is the cause of inexcusable atrocities and recurrent humanitarian crisis. The true victims of war are not the fallen soldiers but the displaced or refugee children and elderly, the women who are raped, the young people who are murdered, the mothers who lose their incomes, the innocent workers whose workplaces are destroyed, the students whose schools are bombed, the sick who cannot go to hospital because there are no bridges and no medicines. In the contemporary world, every armed conflict, every civil war, every massive violation of human rights, every humanitarian emergency, caused either by man or by nature, calls for coordinated international action through this Organization. In that context, all States must politically and financially support United Nations activities to eradicate the scourge of war. The Organization must regain leadership in maintaining international peace and security. It is imperative that all States strictly adhere to the prohibition of the use of force. For those reasons, one of our tasks is to revitalize the Security Council in order to increase its legitimacy and its capacity for action. That organ should never transfer, abandon or renounce its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. To the contrary, it is essential to ensure that it can perform its functions satisfactorily by providing it with the necessary resources and political support. The Security Council cannot renounce its role simply because it is unable to find a quick or inexpensive solution to a crisis. We cannot accept the establishment of peacekeeping operations that lack personnel and resources to the point of being irrelevant. Nor can we accept the dispatch of personnel who lack training or motivation and who become easy victims of conflicts. By no means can we consent to the imposition of sanctions regimes that affect innocent populations. When establishing a peacekeeping mission, the Security Council must define realistic goals, so that mandates and resources will be commensurate with the actual requirements of the crisis it is to face. Armed conflicts and political crises are multifaceted phenomena. Every emergency situation presents a series of political, military and economic problems. True peace can be attained only when all individuals enjoy proper living conditions, when they possess a sufficiently high level of economic development to meet their basic needs, when their fundamental human rights are respected and when their interests and individual rights are guaranteed by democratic means. 23 True peace requires a culture and a climate that foster mutual respect and that categorically reject violence. In order to achieve peace, we must create a culture of peace. With a view to creating such a culture of peace, the United Nations must promote not only peace but also social justice, democracy and development. This should actively involve the Security Council, the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Development Programme. We advocate in particular the strengthening of the role of the Economic and Social Council so that it can effectively monitor and coordinate the implementation of the economic, social, cultural and environmental activities of the United Nations and of all its organs. In this regard, international cooperation plays a central role in supporting local initiatives for development, democratization and the promotion of human rights. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a decrease in international assistance in these fields while the demand continues to grow. To address this situation, each nation has to take into its own hands the task of creating the conditions necessary to attain peace, development and justice. We believe that only if human rights are fully respected will it be possible to create and sustain the conditions necessary for the full development of all men and women. The promotion of democracy and social and economic development are also indispensable instruments to generate the material, social and spiritual conditions required for this comprehensive development. Our experience has taught us that only democracy can provide the necessary framework for the full respect of human rights. Only democracy which grants all citizens equal rights and opportunities to participate in the political process can secure true peace. Only a democratic system which bestows on all people equal opportunities to enjoy the benefits of economic development and personal accomplishment will make possible sustainable and just development. For that reason, we celebrate the democratic consolidation that, thanks to recent elections after a long period under the same ruling party, is being enjoyed by Mexico and by the Republic of China in Taiwan — which deserves an appropriate place in international forums. Additionally, our own national evolution has taught us that the first step in such a policy is the elimination or reduction of military budgets. Costa Rica abolished its army more than 50 years ago and has since been free from armed conflict with its neighbours and from military oppression of its population. Reduction of military expenditure is especially valuable for developing States whose resources are limited and cannot be mismanaged. In that context, armies are a heavy burden on national budgets and a constant source of tension and repression. Would it not be better to devote to health the $191 billion that developing countries waste on their armed forces? Would it not be preferable to allocate to education the $22 billion dollars that are spent in arms transfers to the third world? Our historical experience has made us a witness to and an example of the multifaceted and positive relationship between disarmament and development. The second step on the path to peace and development is to devote as many resources as possible to education and health. Only an educated people can live in freedom; only a healthy people can work for development; only a cultured people can be a part of the contemporary globalized world. For those reasons, we must invest intensively and systematically in our human resources while also striving for economic development, social justice and the institutionalization of democracy. The third step towards the future is to secure respect for human rights and democracy to enable peoples to choose freely their own destinies and to facilitate the coordination of all of society's actors. In my country, we have deeply committed ourselves to those principles, both in the national sphere through constitutional provisions, and in the international arena through various international conventions and treaties. In this regard, the issue of migrations is of the greatest importance to my country. Costa Rica has given emphasis to the need to relocate the nationals of each country peacefully and in an orderly fashion to satisfy their specific immigration and emigration needs; to the movements of qualified human resources to promote economic, social and cultural progress in the receiving countries; and to the orderly reintegration and resettlement of persons who, for one reason or another, have been obliged to abandon their country or place of origin or who have been forced to leave a nation that did not allow them to exercise their right 24 not to emigrate. Therefore, we appreciate the key role played by the International Organization for Migration (IOM), and we advocate in particular that States that have not yet done so make the necessary amendments to their domestic legislation in order to guarantee this right to all human beings. There are three main elements in the process of development that we believe require greater attention. First, we should reconstruct society and its values, especially through a renewed effort to acknowledge and protect the value of the family in its role as society's basic cell. Unfortunately, the family is the first victim of political and economic crisis, thus forcing its dissolution by the scattering of its members. For this reason, we must emphasize that families are the schools where the basic values of coexistence and respect for the dignity of all other persons are taught, and that, without them, it is impossible to create a stable society. Secondly, it is necessary to make greater efforts to pursue sustainable development in all areas of human endeavour. In this sense, we are pleased to report that Costa Rica has achieved significant advances in the environmental field regarding the preservation of its rich biodiversity and the promotion of development in harmony with nature. We are one of the first nations to have undertaken carbon fixation and the sale of oxygen as an additional source of income for development, on the basis of the sustainable use of our forests and recognition of the economic value of the environmental services that they provide to all humanity. In the same vein, we have incorporated the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol into our domestic legal system. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go towards fully sustainable development. Similarly, Costa Rica is honoured to be the headquarters of the Earth Council and the University for Peace, which are working jointly to promote a concept of development in greater harmony with the environment. We are confident that the University for Peace, in particular, can play a constructive role both in the promotion of sustainable development as in the creation of a culture of peace. Thanks to the work of its new Council and in particular Mr. Maurice Strong, who presides over it, that institution can count on my Government's unwavering support. We take this opportunity to reiterate our pledge to offer our country as the headquarters of the Secretariat of the Intergovernmental Forum on Forests. We are confident that this new organ will finally secure the international community's coordinated and comprehensive action with respect to forests. Thirdly, it is necessary to ensure that economic development is sustainable. To achieve this goal, it is necessary to modify the international economic order, with a view to making it more just and balanced, so that it can grant to the smaller developing countries greater access to the benefits of the globalization process and the opportunities for development that it creates. Open commercial mechanisms enabling commerce and investment to be engines for economic growth should be established. In a parallel, we should target our developmental policies towards more efficient use of the digital revolution, which provides us with many opportunities to compete in the global market and to increase our production. In short, we must democratize globalization. We believe that knowledge and opportunities to access information and the new technologies are essential today to generate well-being. In today's world, marked by new technological frontiers, our endeavours should also be directed towards narrowing the digital divide. We should seek to provide more just and equitable access to the opportunities open to us in order to transform economic and social activities. In accordance with this thesis, Costa Rica recently initiated the programme “Communications without frontiers”, becoming the first nation to provide free e- mail to all its population. Democracy, sustainable development and human rights constitute the three fundamental elements upon which the United Nations action must be based, as well as that of each of our nations. None is an end in itself; rather they are only a means to secure better living conditions for all people. The true goal of our action centres on the human being; it is to guarantee greater happiness for all persons, the greatest respect for their dignity and the necessary conditions for their full physical, intellectual and spiritual development.I would like first of all to congratulate the President, on his assumption of the office of President of the fifty-fifth session of the United Nations General Assembly. I wish him every success in this difficult and inspiring task. I would also like to express my sincere appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his exceptional leadership during the fifty-fourth session. Allow me to include in this tribute the SecretaryGeneral for his efforts and crucial role in maintaining and promoting the role of this Organization, and for his inspiration in strengthening its effectiveness and credibility with respect to peace, security, justice and development in the world. I wish to add a few comments to the statement made earlier by the representative of the Federated States of Micronesia on behalf of the Pacific Islands Forum countries. Let us pause for a moment to recognize the contribution of the founding fathers and framers of the United Nations and its Charter. They produced a document which, in large measure, has contributed to an ever-increasing consciousness of the prerequisites necessary for world peace. Today we should celebrate the existence of the United Nations and its accomplishments, both of which offer us the opportunity to reflect on how collectively we can better chart our path and articulate our goals more clearly for the next millennium. President Kessai Note's address to the Millennium Summit reaffirmed the adherence and commitment of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to the principles enshrined in the Charter for the collective good of all people. I take great pleasure in reiterating the Marshall Islands' warm welcome to the Government and peoples of Tuvalu, as the 189th Member of this Organization. Indeed, the admission of new Member States adds to the legitimacy of the United Nations. On the other hand, the denial of membership in this Organization to the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan, who have made a significant and meaningful contribution to international development, is contrary not only to the true spirit of the United Nations Charter, but also to its principle of universality and to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We must strengthen the vital role of the Organization in achieving the goals of conflict prevention, maintenance of peace, regional stability, promotion of fundamental human rights and development of democracy and international progress, and in fulfilling the aspirations of peoples to selfdetermination and engagement, because the United Nations is the only Organization that can bring that shining light to those 23 million people. Furthermore, the United Nations is the only forum for Member States to build mutual trust and to resolve issues through peaceful dialogue. The guiding principles of democracy, respect for human rights and the right of peoples to self-determination must, in conformity with the principles of justice and international law, continue to underpin our collective aspirations. This will require our concerted action in this new millennium. The Republic of the Marshall Islands applauds and commends the unprecedented efforts made by the leaders of the People's Democratic Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea, who have engaged in a dialogue that may help chart a course towards lasting peace in that peninsula. I wish to state also that the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands encourages the leaders of Israel and Palestine to seize the historic opportunity that is within reach to peacefully conclude a framework agreement towards lasting peace in the Middle East. I wish to commend the efforts of the United States of America in this regard. The immutable law of change makes it necessary for the United Nations to continue to critically examine its performance and structures in search of practical and timely solutions. This it must certainly do, because 38 the current political landscape is vastly different from the one that prevailed 50 years ago. It is characterized by a more than threefold increase in the number of nations with membership in the United Nations, and by a heightened spirit of generosity and desire on the part of civil society and corporations to become more active players in the process of change. It is imperative, therefore, that those elements and structures which are antiquated, those which have ceased to promote the welfare of nations and those which no longer minister to the needs of a continually changing humanity be swept away and relegated to the pages of history. A more comprehensive review and restructuring of the Security Council, in line with the spirit of achieving a broader base for decision-making through consensus and confidence-building, is clearly long overdue. Other critical issues in the reform process deserve further examination, with a view to restoring that body's dignity and legitimacy and strengthening the confidence and trust of the international community. Enlarging both the permanent and nonpermanent categories while ensuring an equitable geographical distribution seems to be the way forward. The Republic of the Marshall Islands remains committed to supporting the efforts by the SecretaryGeneral and others to reform and streamline the mandates and activities of the United Nations and its other organizations and agencies. While the peacekeeping and general fund scales seem to be outdated, the process of reform must take seriously into account the limited responsibility and capacity of small island developing States such as the Marshall Islands to sustain their obligation in both categories. Also, now that this Organization stands at 189 Member States, 14 of them from the Pacific Region, the reconfiguration of our electoral grouping should be an additional matter to be placed on the table. It may be a complex one, but through our collective inspiration it can be an achievable goal, to be considered without further delay. The Republic of the Marshall Islands is keen to further develop its ongoing active role and cooperation with the United Nations specialized agencies and programmes. In the view of the Marshall Islands, those bodies' efforts to make their operational activities more effective and responsive to the special needs of small island developing States will undoubtedly play a key role in the new millennium. The expansion of the Resident Coordinator programme — which brings it closer to home, where it belongs — is a case in point. While the human rights achievements recorded in the 50 years since the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights must be acknowledged, there is a sense that much remains to be done before the world can truly claim that the Declaration has become a common standard of achievement. The Millennium Summit is a significant acknowledgement of the need for all States to work together, in a spirit of unity and cooperation, to ensure that the fruits of global development are shared and made more equitable and just for the benefit of humanity at large. Within the mandate of its Charter to promote economic and social progress, peace and security, and sustainable development and prosperity, the United Nations is the only fully representative Organization capable of harmonizing our collective aspirations for a peaceful, stable and prosperous global village. The Republic of the Marshall Islands endorses SecretaryGeneral Kofi Annan's report, “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. At the turn of the century, achievements have been realized, and this trend should be encouraged. Yet we are living under many threats. Acts of terrorism do not recognize national boundaries, and infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis are poised to spread quickly throughout the world. Our decisive and collective response is therefore more than ever required. In many developing countries, poverty and the deprivation of basic human rights, especially as concerns women and children, seem directly linked to, and escalate, crime. We must also strive to eliminate weapons of mass destruction, especially nuclear weapons. The universality of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) is a major concern. Trafficking in drugs and small arms represents a considerable challenge and a major threat for small islands such as the Republic of the Marshall Islands, because of its geographic isolation and the fact that it lacks the required resources and capability to combat these phenomena. Our collective effort towards the creation of an effective global response to address all of these threats is urgently required. We realize that global environmental degradation is of our own creation. The issue of global warming is a real threat to all, particularly to the Marshall Islands and to all small island developing States. There is no 39 doubt that the survival of populations and cultures is at stake. The Marshall Islands has already lost metres of usable and habitable land due to climate change and sea-level rise, and the rate of loss is increasing. This is a matter of life and death. Implementing the legally binding commitments agreed in the Kyoto Protocol is the only significant step forward on the path of ensuring effective global action to combat climate change. There will be a terrible tragedy unless there is international cooperation. How will displaced populations — whatever the reasons for their being displaced — be able to enjoy and sustain their basic human rights for generations to come? Will their cultures and livelihoods be able to survive for the benefit of future generations? Education and health are of paramount importance to every country in the world. Education is the key to the progress of any nation. We must collectively strive to ensure that an educated population makes up a healthy and prosperous society. I am pleased to report that the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has taken some bold steps, by allocating the greatest amount of its limited resources towards the improvement of its education and health systems. I take this opportunity to appeal for the interest and support of the international community in joining us in this endeavour. I am particularly pleased to convey the deep appreciation of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to the Government of Italy for its generous support for our efforts to implement the Barbados Programme of Action. The first phase of the Marshall Islands solar energy project would not have been implemented without its support, through the United Nations Trust Fund for New and Renewable Sources of Energy. The interest in and support of the international community for the implementation of the other phases of the project would be highly appreciated. The Marshall Islands National Nutrition and Children's Council has been very active since its inception. In addition to establishing task forces on food and nutrition, suicide prevention, substance abuse, neglect and disability, it made another significant contribution with the agriculture, food and nutrition policy, as the Marshall Islands strives to meet its obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Existing policies specifically aimed at the rights of the child are under review as we consider making the Convention a part of the Republic of the Marshall Islands legal system. A representative Commission on Sustainable Development has been established with the mandate of ensuring that the Barbados Programme of Action is implemented in all its aspects. Other legislation to curb illegal financial transactions will soon be introduced in the Parliament's current session. These are some of the efforts being made by the Republic of the Marshall Islands as it strives to meet its treaty obligations and enhance the life of every citizen of the country. We cannot do it alone, and we appeal once again to the international community for support. Let us have a United Nations that will meet the challenges of the twenty-first century.  First of all, let me say how satisfied I am about this week's decision of our 14 European Union (EU) partners to lift the measures implemented on 31 January against Austria. This is a victory for reason, and it is also a victory for Europe. In the last seven and a half months — a very difficult time, I must say — the United Nations has stood by us. Austria treasures this support. The United Nations has had confidence in our firm commitment to universal standards and values. The report of the “three wise men”, Martti Ahtisaari, Marcelino Oreja and Jochen Frowein, comes to the same conclusion. Austria will continue its role as an active, reliable and constructive Member State of the United Nations. Austria expects to resume fully its formal and informal work within the European Union. This is absolutely crucial in view of the important projects that lie ahead of us: first, the reform of the institutions of the European Union and, secondly, the enlargement of the Union, a matter of great importance and a historic responsibility. An enlarged Union will bolster European stability and prosperity. Its benefits will reach beyond Europe. Austria, as a country in the heart of Europe, will fully support and, in its own interest, accelerate the process of enlargement. Since this fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly coincides with the turn of the millennium, we ought to undertake a broader examination of today's world. We ought to design policies of a long-term nature. All too often we have to cope with contradictions when engaging in day-to-day politics and when rapidly responding to crises on the one hand and addressing sustainable societal development on the other. A great number of our decisions taken today have important implications for future policy options. Generations to come will have to bear the cost, and they will enjoy the benefits of our policies. It is in this context that I wish to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his clairvoyance and leadership. His millennium report embraces a balanced analysis of the challenges the international community faces today, and it offers concrete, accomplishable and far-sighted recommendations. Austria welcomes this road map for the future course of United Nations activities and will follow its guidelines. Furthermore, Austria supports the timely initiative of the Secretary-General to mandate a comprehensive review of peacekeeping operations in all their aspects. Since the environment for complex peace operations has become more challenging than ever before, Austria, as a major troop contributor, welcomes the report and the recommendations drawn 17 up by a group of experts under the leadership of Mr. Brahimi. We are ready to support their implementation. As Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), I wish to outline a number of major achievements of the OSCE during this year. The OSCE serves as the primary forum for early warning, conflict prevention, crisis management and post-conflict rehabilitation in my region. This year we are celebrating the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Helsinki Final Act. This truly historic document initiated the Helsinki Process, from which we still draw valid lessons for our common efforts to achieve “freedom from fear”, to use this vivid notion from the report of the Secretary-General (A/54/2000, para. 65). Security and stability through cooperation and the effective protection of human rights within each country have a direct bearing on international peace and security. The fundamental significance of democracy, human rights and strong civil societies has been affirmed in the Charter on European Security adopted by the OSCE participating States last year in Istanbul. The OSCE has proved to be a flexible institution, adapting itself to the far-reaching changes in the political landscape of Europe after the fall of the Iron Curtain. Over the past decade, it has evolved into a vibrant organization with a network of as many as 20 field operations. Not only in South-Eastern Europe and Central Asia, on which I will elaborate later, but also in other parts of the OSCE area, we have been able to achieve concrete results in our continuing efforts for peace and stability. As to conflict prevention, I would like to mention the successful observation mission of the OSCE at the border between Georgia and the Chechen Republic of the Russian Federation. We can also register some positive developments concerning the political resolution of “frozen conflicts” in Georgia and in Moldova — conflicts which are often outside the spotlight of broader public attention but nevertheless have a highly destabilizing impact on the region and beyond. Through my frequent travels as Chairperson- in-Office, I wish to enhance the political awareness regarding these unresolved or potential conflicts and security risks. The conflict situation in Chechnya remains unresolved and a matter of great concern. Let me mention an achievement in the institutional field. An important step in enhancing the civilian crisis management capability of the OSCE was set with the establishment of the Rapid Expert Assistance and Cooperation Teams (REACT), a programme which should speed up the deployment of highly trained civilian experts to the field. What are the specific challenges the OSCE is currently facing in the prevention, settlement and management of conflicts? In South-Eastern Europe the work of the Organization focuses in particular on the strengthening of democracy, post-crisis rehabilitation, the rule of law and civil society. The promotion of free and fair elections plays a key role in achieving these goals. The OSCE is tasked with organizing local elections in Kosovo at the end of October this year and, only two weeks thereafter, of general elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Kosovo, the OSCE has been involved in the complex task of civil and voter registration, which resulted in more than 1 million registrations. I note with regret that the Kosovo Serbs did not participate in the registration process and that Belgrade would not allow the registration of Kosovo Serbs in Serbia. The OSCE, however, will continue its efforts to bring about active participation of the Kosovo Serbs in democratic political life. We will not lose sight of our common goal of a pluri-ethnic Kosovo. Kosovo is an excellent example of the new quality of the cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE as a distinct component within the overall framework of the United Nations Interim Administration. A central goal of Austria's chairmanship of the OSCE is to give equal attention to current, and often long-standing, conflicts as well as to potential security risks. In the pursuit of this policy, we support the explicit goal of the OSCE to create a common security space. This implies a strong focus on the Caucasus region and on Central Asia. The OSCE effectively contributes to the alleviation of the suffering of the civilian population in this region, the promotion of political dialogue between warring parties and the monitoring of post-conflict arrangements through observer missions. Conflict prevention is key to the work of the OSCE in Central Asia. During my most recent visit to the region, I obtained a first-hand impression of its 18 security problems. In addition to the destabilizing effects of the precarious situation in Afghanistan, the Central Asian region faces manifold transnational threats, such as terrorism, organized crime, illegal arms and drug trafficking and the degradation of the environment, as well as violent extremism and religious fundamentalism. The OSCE is well placed to support the Central Asian States in their common efforts to deal effectively with these multiple challenges to their security. It acts as a political catalyst supporting the efforts of other, specialized international actors. The international conference, jointly prepared by the OSCE Chairmanship and the United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention, on the issues of drugs, organized crime and terrorism, to be held in Tashkent on 19 and 20 October is only one example. I cannot but re-emphasize the importance of the human dimension in the work of the OSCE. In the course of this year we have focused our work on a number of abhorrent facets of civil unrest, such as children in armed conflict, the proliferation of small arms and the trafficking in human beings, particularly women and girls. It is in this context that I would like to highlight the recent adoption of a comprehensive Action Plan for Gender Issues, which will guide the OSCE in its commitment to advance equality between women and men and to protect the human rights of women and girls in the region. If we analyse the profound changes that have occurred in the recent past, we note that the individual citizen has gained in prominence not only as an actor in our democratic societies, with growing responsibilities in relation to the social, environmental and economic sustainability of our development, but as a victim of new threats to security. It is noteworthy that the United Nations, the Group of Eight and the OSCE have increasingly moved action against terrorism, drug abuse and crime to the top of their agendas. I am pleased to point out that the negotiations on a Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which were held at United Nations Headquarters in Vienna over the past two years, led to a successful outcome in the course of this summer. We are confident that the three additional protocols — on trafficking in and smuggling of persons as well as on trafficking in firearms — will be concluded this fall. Austria, in any case, will strive for a rapid entry into force and implementation of these important legal instruments. We are pleased that the United Nations Centre for International Crime Prevention will serve as the secretariat for the Conference of the Parties. I stress that my country is ready to join forces with our partners in the developing world to counter organized crime in all its facets. Thanks to the human development reports of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), our understanding of development has shifted from macro- economic statistics to a more human-centred concept, defining development as a process of broadening the spectrum of choice, both of the individual human being and of society at large. I am pleased that the Human Development Report 2000 underlines the interrelatedness between human development and human rights. In short, the Report concludes that human development is an essential precondition for the realization of human rights. Human rights, in turn, are an essential prerequisite for comprehensive human development. If, however, we accept that most challenges to human security have a human rights dimension, we may wish to take a new and more operational look at the promotion and protection of human rights. How can we make our human rights regimes more effective in our societies? The Secretary-General has shown us the path to follow, saying: “it is the poison of ignorance, all too frequently, that lies at the heart of human rights violations, knowledge provides an antidote”. (Press release SG/SM/6829, 10 December 1998) Ultimately, it will be citizens themselves who, through better knowledge, become the owners of their human rights. It is in this context that I would like to point out the initiative taken by all women Ministers for Foreign Affairs present at the opening of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. We jointly launched an appeal to our fellow leaders in order to energize our common fight against the global scourge of HIV/AIDS, a scourge which increasingly affects women and girls. Our efforts to counter the HIV/AIDS pandemic must be multifaceted. They must encompass access to adequate medical care, drugs and social protection; they must encompass information and services available to girls and women to help them understand their sexual and reproductive rights in order to protect themselves from 19 unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS. This should be combined with the education of young men to respect women's self-determination and to share responsibility with women in matters of health, sexuality and reproduction. The United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education, spanning the period 1995-2005, was unanimously adopted by this Assembly at its forty- ninth session. We have reached its mid-term and might therefore wish to give it new momentum. We clearly came to understand that human rights education and learning serve as strategies for development on the one hand and as preventive tools for human security on the other. Following an initiative taken by Austria in the framework of the “Human Security Network” of Foreign Ministers, an International Workshop on Human Security and Human Rights Education was convened in Graz, Austria, early this year. Experts from all continents called for human rights education and learning as a common endeavour of governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental institutions. They concluded that human rights education should go beyond formal education so as to encompass all forms of learning and different modes of socialization. Innovative human rights education must be participatory and operational, creative and empowering. It must address all levels of society. All citizens, in particular all persons in positions of leadership, must regard human rights standards as a yardstick when making decisions. In this context, I applaud the initiatives taken in Africa, South Asia, Latin America and Europe to have municipalities proclaim themselves “Human Rights Cities”. I am pleased to announce from this rostrum that the city of Graz will be the first “Human Rights City” in Europe. While we affirm the universality of our human rights, human rights education and learning will have to be rooted in the rich cultural plurality of the world. In the diversity of learning processes we will better comprehend the common humanity we all share. Why, it will be asked, do I raise the issue of human rights education and learning at the General Assembly of the United Nations? It is because I am convinced that in this strategic triangle with human security and human development, human rights are of profoundly political significance for the direction we take in our development. As the acquisition of any political culture takes time, our efforts must be long-term and comprehensive. At the same time, there is a sense of urgency. This is why I appeal to the Assembly to give our efforts in this area a new momentum and new energy and direction. Lately civil society has pleaded for more political leadership in this field. We should be ready to respond and to develop new structures of partnership with civil society and with the institutions already active in the field at national, regional and international levels. The global house of human rights must be built every day. It must be built by everyone and it must be owned by everyone. Only then will it be a house of prosperity, a house of freedom and a house of peace. It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Holkeri on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- fifth session. I am confident that under his most able guidance we will make substantive progress in our deliberations. I also pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the esteemed Foreign Minister of Namibia, for the skilful manner in which he guided our work during a busy year. I also take this opportunity to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his report on the work of the Organization. I also take this occasion to welcome the new Member, Tuvalu, to our midst. The fifty-fifth session opened with the historic Millennium Summit and the adoption of a visionary Declaration offering the cardinal principles that should govern relations among nations. It charted a course that, if followed, will ensure durable peace and security as well as common progress and prosperity for all humanity. It, hopefully, began a new chapter in the history of the United Nations. Undeniably, expectations are raised that the Organization will overcome the pervasive and interrelated obstacles to peace and development, while strongly reaffirming and preserving the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. We know that these goals can be achieved, but it is crucial that Member States, civil society, international organizations and the private sector cooperate and work together for that purpose. These efforts must be supported by the empowerment of the Organization, entailing more than charting a new structure and new mechanisms, or providing additional resources. It demands a willingness to provide genuine authority and legitimacy to the United Nations by setting new norms and agendas as needed. It also urgently calls for reform of the Security Council. New prospects for that effort may have emerged in the joint statement of the Heads of State or Government of the permanent members of the Council on 7 September. In that statement they pledged to foster a more transparent and broadly representative Council to enhance its effectiveness for peace and security. One major issue confronting us is the lack of progress on the elimination of nuclear weapons. We are even more concerned to see a new rationalization for their continued use, coupled with repeated assertions of their legitimacy and necessity, and to see the danger of the deployment of anti-ballistic missile defence systems. This lack of progress increases the prospects of a new nuclear arms race which will threaten the existing arms control agreements and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Ridding the world of the dangers posed by nuclear weapons, pending their total abolition, is the greatest challenge of our time. In contributing to peace and security, Indonesia has since 1957 actively participated in and contributed to the various peacekeeping operations of the United Nations. In anticipating the new and emerging problems identified by the Secretary-General and, in particular, the report (A/55/305) of the Brahimi panel, we are in the process of responding to the new requirements with a view to bolstering the numbers, quality and effectiveness of our participation in future United Nations missions. Armed conflict and tensions persist in many parts of the world. In the Middle East we must continue to focus our attention on the core of the conflict, namely, the legitimate struggle of the Palestinian people to secure their inalienable rights to self-determination and sovereign statehood in their own homeland, with Jerusalem as its capital. In this context, my delegation commends the Palestinian leaders for their statesmanlike approach. They have demonstrated their commitment to peace through the decision to share the city of Jerusalem, while remaining committed to their national rights, in order to reach a compromise. Hence, it behoves Israel to make a similar compromise so that a final settlement can be achieved. The withdrawal of Israel last June from southern Lebanon, following more than two decades of occupation, has finally restored the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Lebanon within its internationally recognized boundaries. My delegation also hopes for a resumption of the Israeli- Syrian peace talks, based on the Madrid peace formula. In various regions of the world, however, we see many positive developments which reflect a new spirit of cooperation and compromise. These are exemplified by, among other things, the summit meeting of the two leaders of North and South Korea, the formation of a new Government in Somalia, and the ceasefire agreement between Eritrea and Ethiopia. It is my delegation's expectation that the same spirit of cooperation and compromise will prevail in easing the impact of sanctions on the people of Iraq. It is also an imperative on humanitarian grounds to address the issue of missing persons of the parties concerned during the Gulf war. In the afterglow of the Millennium Summit and the first South Summit, which took place in August in Havana, there was a distinct sense of optimism that the enormous power and promise of globalization and the information revolution could be harnessed in the service of development and in combating poverty. In this regard, the declarations and programmes of action provide us with an excellent blueprint for charting the path ahead. Today, particularly in the developing countries, millions remain untouched by the benefits of globalization and the information revolution and, being bypassed and marginalized, can greatly provoke instability. Thus, rather than enjoying generalized peace and prosperity, the world at the turn of the century continues to be disfigured by ruthless conflicts, wrenching poverty, blatant inequalities and problems including hunger, illiteracy and disease. While declarations and programmes of action are of critical importance for changing this reality, their implementation is the key. I am convinced that there can be no alternative to productive dialogue to achieve this aim; such dialogue must be based on mutual interests and benefits, shared responsibility and genuine partnership. One of the core issues of development on which globalization has had a great impact and which requires such dialogue is that of financing for development, an issue that has assumed immense importance in the new global economy. While enormous financial flows have characterized the global financial system, the basic problem for the majority of developing countries is that they are not in a position to benefit from such flows and must instead depend on official development assistance, which has sharply declined. Hence the importance of the forthcoming international high-level 12 event on financing for development that is to be held in 2001. Another area in which globalization has had a great impact, one closely associated with financing for development, is the issue of the indebtedness of the developing countries which often seriously undermines their development efforts, particularly in this era of globalization. Regrettably, the numerous debt strategies and initiatives employed over the years have failed to resolve this problem. Equally important in this age of information is the need to harness the potential of the information and communication technologies in the service of development. Progress was made in placing this critical issue on the agenda of the United Nations when for the first time the high-level segment of the Economic and Social Council this year considered information and communication technologies (ICT) for development as its major theme. The outcome, particularly the ministerial declaration, underlined the critical importance of unlocking the vast potential of information and communication technologies for all humanity. More than ever before, due largely to globalization, we must strive for sustainable development as set out in Agenda 21, adopted in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. The outcome of that Conference committed the international community to meet the economic needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of the planet to provide for the needs of future generations. But almost a decade later, with the exception of a number of conventions that have been enacted, relatively little has been achieved in fully implementing Agenda 21, known as Rio+10. It is therefore important that we seriously prepare for the ten-year review of its implementation. In doing so we should be able to generate the highest political commitment to help to ensure the full implementation of the Agenda. In this regard, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that Indonesia's offer to host Rio+10 has been strongly supported by the Ministerial Conference on Environment and Development of Asia and the Pacific. Only a short time ago the five-year reviews were held on the Copenhagen conference on social development and the Beijing conference on women. From those two special sessions we learned valuable lessons. We learned that for many people social development remains an elusive goal and that only through gender equality and women's empowerment can true prosperity be achieved. Clearly the time has come to move beyond rhetoric and fully implement the commitments of the various international conferences of the 1990s. We must also work towards eradicating ethnic and racial discrimination, religious intolerance and xenophobia, which threaten to undermine all progress — political, economic and social. The forthcoming World Conference against Racism in 2001 therefore presents an opportunity that must be seized. We are committed to ensuring that humanitarian assistance is available wherever and whenever needed throughout the world. The plight of refugees and displaced persons must continue to hold a prominent position on the global agenda, with each nation meeting its responsibilities to render aid and assistance in times of natural disaster, civil conflict or other emergency situations. We must work also to ensure the integrity of humanitarian missions. The murder of staff of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Atambua, West Timor, has shocked and saddened the world, and nowhere more than Indonesia. That humanitarian workers should become victims in the performance of their work is unacceptable. Let me be clear in stating that this crime should not go unpunished. The necessary measures must be taken to ensure that such a heinous crime is never again repeated. This tragedy should not, however, result in a withdrawal of humanitarian assistance, thus compounding the loss. We should work together to resolve any and all obstacles to the safe delivery of humanitarian assistance. International cooperation in the millennium is unavoidable and indispensable. The quality, extent and timeliness of such cooperation will make the difference between despair and progress. In this setting, the significance of the United Nations should be evident and accepted. Preserving the role of the Organization requires the participation of all Member States, large and small. Beyond declarations, it is time to translate our ideas into action. Achievement is required in the twenty-first century. That was the message of the Millennium Summit.  The Millennium Summit has given all of us the priority task of establishing a new and equitable world order — an order which would meet the interests of all and every member of the international community and ensure adequate solutions to the problems with which the twenty-first century is confronting us. I am convinced that in this era of globalization and enormous scientific and technological progress, humankind can and should have a comprehensive and forward-looking strategy. While in the past century human civilization's main task was that of survival, today we are confronted with significantly more difficult problems which are much more varied in terms of their scope and orientation. The strategy of survival must give way to a strategy of sustainable development aimed at ensuring the prosperity of humankind. It must be based on the recognition of the indivisibility of international security, the use of modern scientific and technological achievements for the benefit of the entire international 6 community, and a gradual closing of the development gap between the various States. These ambitious goals can be achieved only through the preservation and strengthening of strategic stability in its very broadest sense. Strategic stability means further progress in the disarmament process, reliable prevention of the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Today nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation are no longer the subject of exclusive interaction between Russia, the United States and other nuclear Powers. What is needed is the effective involvement of multilateral United Nations mechanisms and the entire world community in those processes. The outcome of the Millennium Summit provides additional opportunities for the achievement of a major breakthrough in disarmament in the twenty-first century. This will require consistent joint efforts aimed at strict compliance with the agreements already concluded; a step-by-step reduction and eventual elimination of weapons of mass destruction under effective international control, and the limitation of other types of armaments; and prevention of the arms race in new spheres. The time has come to give a new impetus to the work of the Conference on Disarmament, which has proved in practice the effectiveness of multilateral diplomacy under the auspices of the United Nations. Russia advocates the resumption of substantive work at that forum on major issues on the disarmament agenda. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) provides an indispensable international legal basis for nuclear disarmament. This has once again been reaffirmed in full by the 2000 Review Conference. Russia will work to ensure that the decisions of the Millennium Assembly promote the practical implementation of the agreements reached during that Conference. It is precisely for that purpose that the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, put forward an initiative on the development and implementation, under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), of an international project designed to phase out the use of enriched uranium and pure plutonium in the civilian nuclear energy sector. We are satisfied to note the increasing number of States acceding to the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). Its speedy entry into force is in the interests of the entire international community. Having ratified the Treaty, we call on those that have yet not done so to follow suit. We expect that the United States will follow Russia in completing ratification of the Treaty on the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (START II), which will help make it operational. We are ready to actively continue the process of nuclear disarmament and to move towards the conclusion of a START III Treaty with an even lower threshold of nuclear warheads — down to 1,500 units. But this will be feasible only if the 1972 Anti- Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty remains intact. It is universally acknowledged that this major Treaty concerns the vital security interests of the international community as a whole. Its preservation is a key element of global stability and a strong barrier to the arms race in regard to nuclear weapons, missiles and other weapons of mass destruction. Russia will be introducing a draft resolution in support of the ABM Treaty. We hope that, as was the case last year, our initiative will receive broad support within the United Nations. A peaceful earth needs a peaceful outer space. At the Millennium Summit the President of Russia proposed the convening in Moscow of an international conference on the prevention of the weaponization of outer space, to take place in the spring of 2001, when the fortieth anniversary of the first manned flight to outer space is to be commemorated. We hope that this proposal will be actively supported. Strategic stability means reliable safeguarding of international information security and counteracting the use of scientific and technological achievements for purposes incompatible with universal progress and the maintenance of international peace. Aware of the great importance of resolving these most urgent issues, Russia will introduce for consideration by the General Assembly a draft resolution entitled “Developments in the field of informatization and telecommunications in the context of international information security”. Strategic stability also means enhancing peace and security on all continents, settling existing regional conflicts and preventing new ones and cutting off external support for them. Millions of people must be spared the death and suffering caused by local crises. 7 How can this goal be achieved? It is only through the joint efforts of all States collectively responsible for the world's destiny. Experience has shown that unilateral enforcement actions cannot guarantee a lasting and fair settlement of crisis situations. The notions of sovereignty and the territorial integrity of States are still very much alive. Disregard for these principles and military intervention circumventing the Security Council, whatever humanitarian pretexts may be used, undermine the very foundations of the world order and pave the way for arbitrariness in international affairs. The prevention and settlement of crises should become a key element of international security in the twenty-first century. When there is collective determination and goodwill, even the most complex and major problems lend themselves to a political resolution. All of this calls for improvement of the peacekeeping potential of our Organization. People in “hotbeds” of the planet — from Africa and Lebanon to East Timor — rightly associate with the United Nations “Blue Helmets” their hopes for an end to bloody conflicts and for the beginning of complex reconciliation processes. They expect rapid and effective steps from us. We hope that the Millennium Assembly will provide us with an opportunity to engage in a comprehensive analysis of the work of United Nations peacekeeping mechanisms and outline ways to increase their efficiency. Such is the objective of the report (A/55/305) prepared under the aegis of the Secretary- General by the Brahimi Panel. It is important to considerably enhance the United Nations capacity for the prompt deployment of peacekeeping operations. This can be done through the early completion of the system of standby arrangements. Peacekeeping units of the United Nations Secretariat need to be strengthened, with provision for professional planning, control and command of operations. Russia consistently advocates the expansion of cooperation between the United Nations and regional structures in the field of peacekeeping. Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter remains the basis for such interaction. Any regional or “coalition” operation should be conducted under conditions of transparency and of reporting to the United Nations Security Council, whereas operations with enforcement elements should be carried out only with the authorization of the Security Council. The Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is a major regional partner of the United Nations in peacekeeping. In many respects, it was the close cooperation between the United Nations and the CIS that made it possible to successfully resolve the conflict in Tajikistan. Such interaction will undoubtedly intensify along with the development of the CIS anti-crisis potential. At the same time, for a stable peace to prevail in the conflict-affected regions in the CIS area the volume of international economic and humanitarian aid for their rehabilitation should be increased. Russia attaches primary importance to the expansion of cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional mechanisms in Africa to provide for more effective crisis response on the continent. This is evidenced by the Russian participation in peacekeeping operations in a number of African countries. The entire experience of United Nations peacekeeping activities in recent years clearly shows the priority of political and diplomatic methods of conflict settlement. It is precisely these methods that make it possible to minimize the suffering of the civilian population and to find ways to a stable peace. Strategic stability means the security and tranquillity of civil society and of the individual. This task can be accomplished only through the combined efforts of the international community to counter contemporary threats and challenges. These include, inter alia, aggressive separatism and religious extremism, illicit arms trafficking and organized crime. Such an abhorrent manifestation of extremism as international terrorism poses a direct threat to security and stability. Today, terrorists of every stripe sometimes act in a more organized fashion than does the world community confronting them. We expect that the United Nations will step up its mobilization of international capacities to counteract terrorism. Such cooperation must be based on the clear principles set forth in the Security Council resolution 1269 (1999): no support whatsoever, no safe havens for terrorists, the inevitability of punishment for every terrorist act. As to those who violate these principles the Security Council must be ready to take measures against them provided for in the United Nations Charter. 8 Russia intends to ratify the Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Financing elaborated under United Nations auspices. There is an urgent need to complete work on the convention for the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism, and that work on a comprehensive anti-terrorism convention should be stepped up. Terrorism is often closely linked with drug trafficking and organized crime. We welcome the completion of the development of an international convention against organized crime. Russia intends to sign it in the nearest future. We also support the proposal on drafting an international convention on the fight against corruption. Strategic stability means promoting human rights and freedoms everywhere. This area is an important component of the United Nations activities aimed at establishing a new world order based on international law. Russia contributes significantly to strengthening the universal legal regime. Our country has signed the Statute of the International Criminal Court. Speaking of pooling the efforts of States to resolve the twofold task of maintaining international security and ensuring human security, human rights and freedoms, we should constantly bear in mind that in the twentieth century the rule of the ideology of racial hatred cost mankind scores of millions of human lives. Unfortunately, today, 55 years after the great victory it is still premature to speak of total eradication of the bacillus of national superiority. We cannot accept a situation in which people do not have the right to use their mother tongue, are deprived of their citizenship and jobs on ethnic grounds, when fighters against fascism are put behind bars while former fascists find favour with the authorities. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights should firmly respond to all such manifestations. Strategic stability must be based on a solid material foundation. The twenty-first century will go down in history as the century of mankind's breakthrough to a qualitatively new level of development only if we manage to preserve peace and international security and at the same time impart necessary dynamism and depth to the process of economic and technological equalization between the enormous number of developing countries and the comparatively small group of leading countries. This goal cannot be achieved overnight. This will require — under the unifying and guiding hand of the United Nations — a mechanism for collective democratic management of the international monetary, trade and economic systems. They must become more rational and fair and be targeted against poverty and underdevelopment. It is important to make the most of those opportunities which have been opened up by the new technological revolution in order to initiate the process of bridging the gap in the levels of development. Information and communications technologies whose potential for speeding up global development is only comparable to the invention of written language can serve as a driving force of that process. A chance has emerged to skip over several traditional stages of development through the introduction of global computer literacy and information technologies. Mankind, equipped with this powerful instrument, will obtain a real opportunity to begin creating conditions for a decent life and the all-around development of human beings everywhere on earth. Strategic stability means the preservation of a clean and healthy environment for the present and future generations. The United Nations has done a great deal to mobilize international efforts in that important field. The “Rio+10” Forum, to be held in 2002, will provide an opportunity not only to sum up the results of those activities but also to outline a future-oriented follow-up programme. Russia supports the expansion of international cooperation within the United Nations framework in the areas of biodiversity, climate, combating desertification, as well as of forest preservation. The recent increase over the last few years in the number of natural and man-made disasters and the consequent growth of the scope of human and material losses have made disaster management one of the most formidable global challenges facing mankind. While intensifying the United Nations efforts to promote international cooperation in this field, special attention must be paid to the use of state-of-the-art specialized technologies for disaster management and to the search for innovative mechanisms for their use in the interests of the entire international community. 9 The United Nations — a unique universal forum in every respect, which has demonstrated in practice its central role in managing international affairs — should become a guarantor of such comprehensive strategic stability. Russia welcomes the consensus reached at the Millennium Summit on consolidating the United Nations as the axis of the present world order. The time has come for concrete collective measures to transform the Organization into a sort of operational headquarters for coordinating activities aimed at ensuring a new strategic stability based on the principles of multilateralism, equality and solidarity in resolving global problems. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize once again that the Russian Federation, for its part, is open to the closest interaction with all members of the international community in order to make strategic stability a cornerstone of the world order in the twenty- first century and the United Nations its reliable guarantor. May I first, on behalf of our Minister for Foreign Affairs, who could not be here, on behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, join previous speakers in extending to the President our heartfelt congratulations on his election to preside over the fifty-fifth session. In addition, I congratulate his eminent predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, and the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on the quality and great quantity of activities carried out during the recent Summit. I also take this opportunity to congratulate and welcome Tuvalu, the 189th Member of our Organization. We hope that other potential Members, such as Western Sahara in Africa, will soon be able to join us. The Millennium Summit — in which the Head of State of Rwanda, Mr. Paul Kagame participated — evaluated the twentieth century and formulated recommendations for enhancing the work of the Organization in the twenty-first century, now beginning. As a number of speakers emphasized, the twentieth century was the era both of great and unprecedented technological triumphs and of crises as great as the new means of destruction. The distressing feature of the First and Second World Wars was that they made use of the advanced technologies of the late nineteenth century and the first half of the twentieth century to cause enormous human and material devastation. In 1918 and again in 1945 all humanity was overwhelmed by the terrifying consequences of a world war. “No more wars leading to the loss of millions of human lives”; “No more genocide”: these were the calls of the founding countries of the United Nations when they met in San Francisco in October 1945. Today, as in the past, the international community finds itself reliving horrors that it thought it had banished for ever, horrors that include the genocide in Rwanda in 1994. It certainly was not a lack of theoretical principles of public morality or international law that contributed to preventing or stopping this genocide. These principles had even been greatly strengthened in 1948 by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and had been widely diffused throughout the world by many organizations that took up the banner of human rights. 2 The Brahimi report (A/55/305) was needed. We welcome its conclusions and recommendations, and take this occasion to warmly congratulate our Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, on having commissioned it and the two others that preceded it: the Srebrenica report and the courageous Carlsson report. Our Organization had its failures, but the Brahimi report tells us that we can do better in the future. To miss this unique opportunity to reflect on what must be done, and how, would be to renounce our responsibilities and the principles and values expressed in the Charter of our Organization. Another Rwanda or Srebrenica would disgrace us all. Undoubtedly, we must look elsewhere for the true source of the problem. It is surprising that even today countries that claim to embrace human rights are delaying and using pretexts to block prosecution of the authors of the genocide. There are even some who — afraid to accept or think about what happened — refer to this genocide as what happened in Rwanda in 1994, being afraid even to think about it. To take just one example, I refer to the observations of Minister Yerodia Ndombasi on 16 September. In sum, my delegation calls on the international community to draw every possible lesson from the genocide committed in our country, so that “Never again such a human tragedy” ceases to be an empty phrase. Much more urgent is the question of assistance to Rwanda for rebuilding and making good the huge material and moral damage caused by the 1994 genocide. Such assistance was recommended in the reports of the Independent Inquiry set up by the United Nations and of the Organization of African Unity's international panel of eminent persons. All the members of the international community represented here can help Rwanda rebuild and develop. And each time we wish to do more for the Organization and humanity let the Brahimi report serve as a source of inspiration. I take this opportunity to salute the Security Council discussions of 15 April, when the recommendations of the Carlsson report were considered and the Council was urged to use its influence to ensure that they were effectively followed up by other United Nations institutions and agencies, including the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), from which we are awaiting special assistance as part of the development assistance programme for Rwanda. We venture to hope that the reforms under way at UNDP will lead to the provision of assistance based on a sincere and enthusiastic partnership according to the British model eloquently outlined by Prime Minister Tony Blair during the Millennium Summit. It is a partnership steeped in equality, justice and fraternal solidarity for all. We invite all our partners to embrace this initiative, in their relations not only with Rwanda, but with all the other developing countries — especially the former colonies. The reports that I have mentioned also justly call on the international community — beyond contributing to the task of overcoming the devastating effects of genocide — to contribute vigorously to preventing this crime against humanity, in particular by suppressing it. Those who hide, protect and advocate for the criminals responsible for the 1994 genocide should think twice before persisting in this evil behaviour. I now come to the Congolese crisis, certain aspects of which can be seen as an extension of the genocide committed in Rwanda in 1994. It is worth recalling that after their defeat and withdrawal many militia members and former Rwandan soldiers who were authors of the genocide took refuge in what is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Not only were these former soldiers and militia members not disarmed at the time, but they have benefited from new military equipment and training, allowing them to commit acts of genocide along the borders and prepare for a repetition of the previous widespread genocide campaign. Is this not sufficient reason to ask a responsible Government to act to preserve the sovereignty of its country and the security of its people? The Assembly can well understand that this is hardly a case of a security pretext, but, rather, of a current reality. The plan for a massive invasion by the genocidal forces was thwarted in November 1996 — thank God — by the forces of the Rwandan Patriotic Army. But from May 1997 to August 1998 it was necessary to once again repel infiltrations from the Congo and to resist other acts of genocide committed in the north- western part of our country. The horrors of this rebellion have been the source of a number of resolutions, but the world seems to have rapidly forgotten them. It is in this context that our country now has a military presence in the Congo — a presence whose only purpose is to prevent a recurrence of genocide in 3 Rwanda by the same Interahamwe militia and soldiers of the previous regime. We have more or less succeeded in achieving our objectives. Since 1998 we have captured many soldiers of the previous regime and Interahamwe militia, contrary to what Minister Yerodia Ndombasi told the Assembly on 16 September. Most of these soldiers — there are many of them — have rejoined the army. We are continuing to hold 135 of them while they await a decision. We have also succeeded in saving some of the Interahamwe and the soldiers of the former regimes, as well as innocent civilians who had been held hostage during all this time for purely military and political purposes. In the category of liberated hostages, 12,000 were repatriated since August 1998, and the process continues. We have established centres to receive them on our borders with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and several humanitarian organizations, including the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), have also been involved. This is a secret to no one, and it has been documented by the UNHCR at Goma and Gisenyi. Those who are against our successes say that these people are Congolese citizens that we have forced into exile in Rwanda, because their departure has created a vacuum in the operations of the allies of these forces of genocide. They are our citizens, and no one can claim to love them as much as we do. They are at home, awaiting the others with open arms. My Government welcomed the signing of the Lusaka agreements in July 1999 and still upholds them. Their main principles are, first, that the inter- Congolese political negotiations should lead to a new political order in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and, secondly, that the armed groups should be pursued and disarmed, including former Rwanda military and the Interahamwe authors of the 1994 genocide, who are still attempting to continue their misdeeds, encouraged by certain of our Congolese brothers who go so far as to deny their presence on Congolese territory with the sole purpose of vilifying us, to judge by the statement by Minister Yerodia Ndombasi last Saturday. The Rwanda delegation deplores the Kinshasa Government's recently calling into question these same agreements, despite the fact that they are upheld by all the countries concerned of the subregion, the Organization of African Unity and the Security Council. Just before that, the Congolese Government had created controversy by refusing to authorize the free movement of United Nations military observers; and that free movement would not be possible outside those agreements, to which that country is a party. As far as Rwanda is concerned, we believe that, at this time, the Lusaka agreements constitute the only framework that will guarantee a lasting peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the subregion. Any other approach in this matter would run the risk of dangerously jeopardizing the peace process now under way. Furthermore, the slowness and hesitations observed in our Organization regarding the deployment of the forces of the United Nations Mission in the Congo must be reviewed, and advantage must be taken of the current offers to strengthen the presence of the United Nations in the zones evacuated by the signatory parties of the Lusaka agreements. Any attempt to reduce the force would only lead to the kind of catastrophe from which the Brahimi report tries to spare us. I should like to take this opportunity to commend the growing role of regional and subregional organizations in resolving conflicts. As is well known, such a positive involvement has already led to considerable results in various parts of the world, including in South-East Asia and Western Africa. It is our hope that the United Nations will adopt a similar approach to regional contributions to its machinery for conflict resolution. If the question of conflicts in the world continues to be one of the major preoccupations of our Organization, it would no doubt be a good idea to pay special attention to their prevention. This requires being attentive to the efforts made to eradicate, or at least attenuate, the root causes of conflicts, both domestic and external. With respect to Rwanda, the halting of the 1994 genocide was followed by courageous policies inspired by the tragic lessons of our recent history. These policies were translated into the following actions for and factors of national reconciliation, as follows: In July 1994, a Government of National Unity and a Parliament were established including all the components of the Rwanda population and all the political circles of the country. This was an integrative approach such as had never before been known in 4 independent Rwanda, despite the linguistic, socio- cultural and historical advantages that militate in its favour. The policy of exclusion, which lasted more than 30 years in all sectors of national life, from education to employment, was eliminated. We are pleased to have abolished, 60 years after its introduction, the identification card, which categorized people according to their ethnic origin and their place of origin and on the basis of which decisions were taken to kill people or to spare their lives. A skilled, professional national army was established, including the forces of the Rwandan Patriotic Army, which liberated the country, as well as a portion of the forces of the former regime that had separated themselves from the perpetrators of genocide. We welcome their bravery and their discipline. The United Nations needs troops of this type for difficult operations in Sierra Leone and elsewhere. In March 1999 the National Commission on Human Rights and the Commission for Unity and National Reconciliation were established. The judicial system was rehabilitated, which guarantees the independence of the magistrature. This judicial system has been strengthened by a form of justice called gachacha, which, while keeping to international judicial norms, will benefit from major inputs of the population at the early stages of a trial. This will have the advantage of accelerating the prosecution of those accused of genocide. In two and a half years more than 3 million refugees have been repatriated. This is all the more striking since Rwanda's refugee problem, having lasted for more than 30 years, is the most numerous and longest-standing in Africa. At present the only ones remaining outside the country are families of criminals responsible for genocide and some refugees whom Rwanda wants to repatriate, but who are still being manipulated by those criminals. Our head of State asked them to return in his inaugural statement at the Supreme Court, and some of them have begun to come back voluntarily to the country. Democratic elections were held last year. Following the upcoming local elections, they will be completed in October. These are orientations that today guide the policy of unity and national reconciliation, the need for which became clear after the genocide of 1994. Beyond the eradication of genocide, there are many challenges that deserve the attention of the international community at the beginning of the new millennium. These relate to the gaps between developing countries and prosperous countries in the context of globalization, the reform of the United Nations system and many other current problems, such as the spread of AIDS. With respect to the gap between developing countries and prosperous countries, the nineteenth and twentieth centuries saw gaps between industrialized countries and poor countries grow even wider. This resulted from technology as well as from political and commercial inequalities left over from the colonial era. After independence many development proposals were made, such as the provision of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for development assistance, technology transfers, a new international economic order favouring fair remuneration for commodities, and so on. All these strategies have been the subject of a number of international conferences. None of them has been implemented sustainably or consistently. Some of them have remained theoretical and have not even begun to be implemented as programmes. But it is never too late. For some time now, we have been in an age of globalization of economies in the context of structural gaps that have not changed much since the sixties. My delegation would like to emphasize the urgent need for the preliminary adoption of certain measures to facilitate the establishment of machinery for efficient globalization. Is there any need to recall that the external debt of developing countries constitutes, in and of itself, a real handicap to their economic recovery? How can one talk about growth in a context where external debt absorbs 60 per cent or more of the export income of these same developing countries? What will be the result of globalization in an environment where the competition of market economies reduces in advance the role of certain parts of the world to that of eternal consumers, with the monopoly on production elsewhere? These are all questions that deserve urgent answers and solidarity on the part of the international community. 5 My delegation believes more particularly that the success of globalization requires courageous accompanying measures, such as eliminating the debt for poor countries and providing support for economic integration policies, in particular in Africa. This requires our world Organization to endow itself with machinery that can help to guide globalization. For some time now, the United Nations has rightly been concerning itself, at the highest level, with the reform of the functioning of its structures. This is an urgent matter, as it affects what is at stake for the future and even the survival of all of humankind, which can no longer be managed in the same spirit and with the same structures as 55 years ago. We should remember that the number of Member States has increased from 51 in 1954 to 189 today; that is an irrefutable argument for democratization. In this same context, Africa, which has 10 times as many Member States in the United Nations as it did when the Organization was founded, must occupy the place it deserves in the major decision-making bodies of the United Nations, such as the Security Council and others. The Bretton Woods institutions must also change their character and behaviour if globalization and equity are to be real and consistent. In conclusion, I would like to speak about that other challenge for our times: the AIDS pandemic. This disease is currently responsible for the loss of more human lives that the most deadly wars. The people of the poorest countries are the most vulnerable in the face of this disease of the century. The delegation of Rwanda would like, from this rostrum, to make an urgent appeal to the international community to show solidarity in the face of the threat of extinction of the human race that AIDS represents. Put simply, taking AIDS lightly trivializes the crime of genocide. Both are exterminating people and should be combated with vigour and determination. More specifically, aid should be provided for humanitarian — if for no other — reasons, so that the least developed countries can benefit from the most up- to-date medicines, at affordable prices, that can provide relief from people suffering from AIDS and do all that they can to contain this scourge. Furthermore, my delegation is convinced that an effort to mobilize the greatest possible financial resources would enable scientific research to take place to bring this disease, and others, such as malaria, which are devastating a large part of the population, under control. We hope that the twenty-first century, which is just beginning, will usher in a world of peace and solidarity that will meet the greatest aspirations of humanity.   Brazil applauds your election, Sir, to preside over the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Your personal political experience and Finland's historic contribution to the promotion of peace, human rights and social development are valuable credentials that you bring to the honoured task of chairing our work. On behalf of the Brazilian Government, I pay tribute to your predecessor, Foreign Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab. His diplomatic skills and commitments to the highest ideals of the United Nations insured him a decisive role at the helm of the fifty-fourth session. I wish to make a very special reference to our Secretary-General, Kofi Annan. His moral authority has served as a beacon as we strive to fulfil the principles and goals of the United Nations. His report, “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”, is a contribution of fundamental importance to the cause of peace and justice, and to a stronger United Nations. It will serve as a permanent source of inspiration as we ponder the crucial decisions the Organization is called upon to make. Brazil had the satisfaction to co-sponsor the resolution bringing Tuvalu into the United Nations family. We salute Tuvalu as our newest member. For the sixth consecutive time it is my honour to take part in the opening of the general debate. On all previous occasions, I took stock both of the positive and negative aspects of the current state of world affairs, the facts that afford us satisfaction and those that are cause for frustration and even indignation. This is our daily challenge and the motivating force behind our work. We meet here for the last time this century. We all know that the twentieth century has been marred by a fundamental contradiction. We have seen a growing abundance of intellectual and material resources that should have brought about a greater convergence of opportunities and expectations as well as of living standards throughout the world. Yet, what we also saw was a failure to harness the necessary political will to translate those extraordinary possibilities into a reality of progress shared by all. This applies not only to the international community as a whole but is equally valid for the great majority of nations represented here, among which is Brazil itself. No doubt, we have much to gain in identifying those aspects of our relations with the international environment that are a hindrance to national development. Yet it is equally illuminating to seek within our own countries examples of success and failure that help explain the world we live in. Globalization is asymmetrical in part because it flows from national societies that are themselves socially unbalanced and seem to have lost some of their urge to bring about social justice. Freedom — the greatest of values — continues to advance on all fronts and in all continents. That is a crucial development. There is cause for concern, however, that the core values of equality and fraternity are dangerously being put aside. It is imperative that these two other essential elements return to the top of our agenda. They must retake their rightful place at the centre of our policy decisions before it is too late — before some are misled into believing that the inevitable price for preserving freedom is the perpetuation of the divide between the rich and the poor, between those who are included and those who suffer exclusion, between the “globalized” and those left behind. If democracy and freedom are to put down firm roots within our countries, we must foster a genuine sense of solidarity that translates into effective action. Only thus will we build an international order that is conducive to the preservation of peace and can function as an engine of sustained growth. It is unacceptable that major global issues and campaigns for transnational solidarity be manipulated and exploited in order to disguise what amounts to the protection of narrow interests. Unfortunately, this is what is happening in the field of international trade. First, the inconsistency between free trade rhetoric and the continued use of protectionist policies of various types by developed countries. As I stated at the World Trade Organization conference in Seattle, the name of this game is discrimination. And discrimination, especially when waged against the weakest, is the absolute negation of solidarity. We must 5 reverse these grave distortions in international trade, and especially as concerns agricultural products. It is inadmissible that the most prosperous nations, whose economies are strongly based in the manufacturing and service industries, should be legally entitled to restrict access to their markets for agricultural goods, while they call for the free flow of those goods in which they benefit from an enormous competitive advantage. It is even more intolerable that these countries be allowed, as is presently the case, to subsidize the production and export of agricultural commodities to the tune of dozens of billions of dollars. These policies cause enormous harm to exporting nations that are more efficient and competitive in this field, but lack the financial means to offer equally generous fiscal incentives to their farmers. Secondly, not satisfied with the persistence of this highly discriminatory situation — where what is said often deviates from what is done — there are those in the developed countries who give voice to sectional interests and defend a new offensive against the exports of developing nations. This is what the new language of protectionism, camouflaged as humanitarian internationalism, would seem to suggest. It unfurls the seductive banner of labour and environmental standards, which, if adopted, would further restrict the access of products from developing countries to the markets of rich countries. This rhetoric and its appeal to certain segments of public opinion might suggest that the exports of developing countries pose a threat to the economic well-being and the way of life of the more developed societies. We all know this is not true. After all, these exports represent less than a third of world trade and are made up mostly of raw materials. The main objective of those who wish to introduce labour conditionalities into trade rules has little to do with improving the quality of life of workers in poor countries. Their fundamental aim is to protect backward sectors of their own economies that strictly speaking are no longer capable of competing effectively in a free trade environment. Sanctions and commercial barriers are inadequate tools to enhance labour standards and to protect the environment in developing countries. Our countries and our own societies, more than any other, are interested in achieving those very same objectives, which is why we need more — not less — exports and economic growth. This is a message that developing countries must make ring out in a clear and powerful voice. We must instil in developed societies an understanding that they are not alone in the world. Above all, they must not presume to unilaterally write the rules of international trade solely according to their interests and points of view, as if the other 5 billion human beings did not have equally legitimate aspirations to progress, justice and well-being. Nations must come increasingly to comprehend and respect differing realities and objectives among themselves. At the same time, they must recognize their commonalties and affinities; explore and enlarge areas of convergence and opportunities for cooperation; and overcome suspicions, rivalries and disputes. Nowadays it is above all through regional integration that this learning process takes place. For most countries, it opens the door to a more intensive and meaningful participation in global affairs. In the Americas, and more specifically in Latin America, we have set ourselves firmly on this course. The countries of the region are increasingly integrated among themselves and into the world. These are the two inseparable faces of the same forward movement. A few days ago in Brasilia, on the initiative of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a meeting of Presidents of South America took place for the first time in our history. This gathering sought to bring together the leaders of South America around the common challenges that grow out of our shared geography and physical proximity. It is only natural that this first meeting should have occurred in Brazil, which shares borders with nine of its 11 South American neighbours, and has lived in harmony with all for over a century in a spirit of peace, friendship and growing determination to move ahead on the road to full integration. The Presidents took important and concrete steps in this direction that will bear lasting fruit. In the political realm, they agreed to underscore the commitment of the countries of South America to democracy and decided that participation in future South American gatherings would hinge on the preservation of the rule of law and full respect for democratic values and procedures. They also agreed to 6 hold consultations among their Governments in the event of a threat to democracy in our region. In trade matters, they resolved to begin negotiations on a free-trade zone between MERCOSUR and the Andean Community, to be established before January 2002 and to be expanded into an economic zone covering all of South America, including Chile, Guyana and Suriname. To this end the Presidents decided to coordinate the planning and funding of projects for integrating the region's infrastructure, in particular in the priority areas of energy, transport and telecommunications. By working together in this way we will more quickly set up the physical links that will enhance South American unity. Drug trafficking and organized crime are issues that affect, in different forms, all regions of the world. The Presidents highlighted the role of the Organization of American States in the fight against drugs in the hemisphere and the setting up last year of the multilateral evaluation mechanism to assess the performance of our countries in this effort. They also decided to establish systematic consultations among national agencies and to set up a South American anti- laundering task force. The meeting of Presidents of South America was an event unique in the almost two centuries of independent nationhood for most of the subcontinent. As well as having historic significance and long-term impact, this summit will also generate results in the immediate future. None is more significant than the commitment to democratic values. President Fernando Henrique Cardoso was very much to the point when he said: “the South America of today is synonymous with democracy ... In this dawning of democracy, we will not tolerate abuses. And we will increasingly demand the right not only to vote, but to defend freedom, access to information and the judicial guarantees that make elections an effective exercise in democracy”. The United Nations has seen important achievements over this last year. Let me recall a few. The goal of creating a more just, tolerant society was reaffirmed during the follow-up world conferences on women — Beijing +5 — and on social development — Copenhagen +5. At the Non-Proliferation Treaty review conference, modest but nevertheless significant progress was made towards freeing the world from the scourge of nuclear arms. As one of the New Agenda countries, Brazil is proud of its contribution to the success of the conference, whose results will be a litmus test for future advances in the nuclear disarmament field. Efforts to establish an International Criminal Court have moved ahead, and Brazil signed the Rome Statute. Those that commit crimes against humanity must not, under any circumstances, go unpunished. In the Brahimi report (A/55/305), a valuable framework has been laid out on how to strengthen the work of United Nations peacekeeping operations and, as a result, on how to overcome recent failures. The courageous Rwanda and Srebrenica reports offer us a precise diagnosis of what needs to be done. In Timor, under the leadership of a model international official, Sergio Vieira de Mello, a new State is taking form and coming to life. We express our strongest condemnation of the attack on innocent workers at the United Nations office in Atambua, West Timor, who were helping to achieve this very goal. In contrast with these achievements, the frustrations are well known. Peacekeeping operations in Sierra Leone and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo have still to show results; the conflict in Angola goes relentlessly on as a result of UNITA's inexcusable failure to comply with international directives and law; and there is growing awareness of the devastating dimensions of the AIDS epidemic in Africa and in the rest of the world. Less than a week ago, in a historic meeting in this very Hall, world leaders took stock of the work and achievements of multilateralism. The outcome was a clearer reaffirmation of our determined and unequivocal commitment to reinvigorate the United Nations. We reinforced our convictions about the crucial role of this Organization in ensuring that justice is done and that international peace takes root. Brazil has always been convinced of this. In the absence of the United Nations, human rights would be more vulnerable; the distance between antagonists would be wider; the difficulties in eradicating poverty would be greater; the growth of tolerance would be slower and democratic practices would face even stronger opposition. 7 It may be that the Millennium Summit only gave expression to what we already knew. The historic legacy of this Summit should, then, be our renewed willingness to act. We all know that it is by mobilizing political will that we can make a difference. The United Nations is the model political forum of the international community and its central goal is to provide the ways and means to bring to life our dearest ideals, values and aspirations. In this hall there has often been a divorce between words and deeds, between objectives and the tools to achieve them, as if they hailed from different universes, distant and isolated from each other. It is only through political dialogue, and consultation among States made possible by multilateralism that a degree of rationality and predictability can be brought to the workings of global forces. To foster multilateralism is to strengthen the United Nations and the modern understanding of the individual as the central beneficiary of international action. Only thus can we look forward to progressive and just governance in this integrated world. It is our obligation to fulfil our common commitments, so vigorously underscored during the Millennium Summit. We must do so with determination and a sense of urgency.At the outset, allow me to extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. It is without doubt a fitting recognition of your rich personal experience as well as Finland's role in world affairs. The Millennium Summit has made it clear that, in the words of the Secretary-General, “the United Nations remains as much in demand as in need of change.” (Global Governance 4 (1998), p. 123) This is a formidable challenge, but also an opportunity, and the cost of not rising to the new calls of the next millennium can be dangerous. I cannot but recall that many ideas on globalization and governance generated and debated at the current session echo the concept of “management of interdependencies”, put forward by our President, 12 Mr. Eduard Shevardnadze, at the forty-seventh session in 1992. With this in mind, let me address some of those important issues from our standpoint. The end of totalitarian regimes set in motion a whole host of progressive changes within and among countries. However, we are still struggling with the adverse legacies of totalitarianism. The experience of the post-cold-war era clearly demonstrates that intra- State conflicts have become a major threat to international peace and security. The Secretary- General's report to the Millennium Summit called for reshaping of the United Nations approach to peacekeeping to meet the challenges of this new global threat. This very idea is particularly topical for the region I represent. As my colleague, the Foreign Minister of Germany, said: “the triangle between Central Asia, the Caucasus and the Middle East” being “full of destabilizing factors … is threatening to become the crisis region of the century ahead.” () Therefore, this region merits closer attention by the international community. In this context, I also endorse the appeal by the Austrian Foreign Minister, in her capacity as Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), for enhanced political awareness by the world community of these unresolved or potential conflicts and security risks, which she said “are often outside the spotlight of broader public attention, but nevertheless have a highly destabilizing impact on the region and beyond.”() Periodic failures of United Nations peace efforts, manifested, for instance, in the “ethnic cleansing” of the predominantly Georgian population during the tragic developments in Abkhazia, Georgia, highlighted all the flaws of selective peacekeeping. Well- intentioned United Nations efforts have sometimes been delayed and ineffective in conflicts which the world community regards as peripheral. I believe that we should make every effort to prevent conflicts becoming “frozen”. Consequently, we support the Secretary-General's proposal aimed at implementing necessary changes to increase the effectiveness of United Nations peace efforts in general. I cannot help but call for the more frequent and firm application of the United Nations peace-enforcement mechanisms envisioned in Chapter VII of the Charter, in particular those for coping with protracted conflicts. The Charter calls for the consent of the parties involved when launching peacekeeping operations or renewing their mandate. However, peacekeeping practices often play into the hands of separatists trying to maintain the status quo. We believe that the United Nations should intensify its efforts to balance the interests of all sides with the dynamics of the peace process and the comprehensive resolution of conflicts. Moreover, we welcome the further enhancement of the United Nations standby arrangement system and the improvement of the Organization's rapid-deployment capabilities. Georgia also expresses its agreement with the United States initiative to reconsider the scale of assessments and the reallocation of the cost of United Nations peacekeeping. In the context of increasing the effectiveness of United Nations peace operations, this initiative is of great significance. In addition, complex conflicts, such as that in Abkhazia, Georgia, which has left hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons deprived of the right to return to their permanent places of residence, must be addressed within a multifaceted framework, which entails social and economic approaches, along with political ones. We are grateful to the United Nations for the invaluable assistance it provides to the refugees and internally displaced persons in Georgia. I also express our special appreciation for the United Nations Development Programme assistance programmes in Georgia, particularly those aimed at improving the living conditions of the internally displaced persons and increasing their self-reliance. I am stressing the issue of peacekeeping as it is directly related to the most sensitive problem for my country in the past seven years, since it fell victim to aggressive separatism in Abkhazia, Georgia. I reiterate that a peaceful resolution of this conflict is the only acceptable option for the Georgian Government. In this respect, I extend our gratitude to the United Nations and to the Group of Friends of the Secretary-General for their efforts in support of the peace process. But we should also admit that so far we have failed to achieve any tangible results here. 13 Recently, within the United Nations framework and in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolution, a document on the distribution of constitutional competences between Tbilisi and Sokhumi has been drafted. We support this initiative and find it difficult to understand what stands in the way of its timely endorsement. We are convinced that submission of the document for consideration by the Security Council should not be delayed; its endorsement by the Security Council as a basis for political negotiations will create a sound ground for advancing the peace process in Abkhazia, Georgia. Furthermore, I reiterate that about 300,000 predominantly Georgian refugees and internally displaced persons from that conflict zone are still being subjected to the continuous violation of their rights and difficult living conditions. The return of the internally displaced persons to their rightful places of residence is continuously hampered by the Abkhaz side, with blatant disregard for internationally recognized norms, as well as for a number of Security Council resolutions. We strongly believe that there is an urgent need for the Security Council to address those issues in a timely manner. It has become apparent that at times the United Nations is not capable of handling conflicts on its own. I strongly believe that the key to more effective United Nations peace policies in our region lies in closer collaboration and synchronized action with such regional organizations as the OSCE and other European structures. Regrettably, the reality remains different. Having established that “ethnic cleansing” was taking place in Abkhazia, Georgia, the OSCE called for the dispatch of a fact-finding mission to push forward the peace process. However, the United Nations remains reluctant to accept the OSCE findings. While it is struggling with a variety of approaches, the “ethnic cleansing” of the Georgian population in Abkhazia continues. There is therefore a great need to ensure concerted action by the United Nations and regional organizations in the process of conflict management and resolution. The dilemma of humanitarian intervention could be described as being inherent to the transition from an international to a global — and, hence, more human- centred — world. It has put in a new light the correlation between human rights and security. We are strong proponents of a value-based, universal global order. Therefore, we are confident that the international community should focus on establishing within this Organization strong and efficient preventive mechanisms, mechanisms to prevent gross and systematic violations of human rights, in order to reduce the likelihood of “humanitarian intervention”, an extreme measure. We believe that the International Criminal Court will play an indispensable role in this respect as a deterrent and as a preventive mechanism. The dilemma of “humanitarian intervention” is also directly related to United Nations reform, in regard to adapting the existing decision-making mechanism to the timely and effective use of force. I believe that the primary purpose of the United Nations as a guarantor of international peace cannot be sustained without also securing democracy on the global level. To set the developing world on the path to prosperity, United Nations activities should encompass purposeful financial, economic and political measures aimed at encouraging the democratic development of the newly independent States, which would secure good governance, the rule of law, the protection of human rights and predictable administration. Secure democratic development, not merely security of democracies, is the main challenge to be addressed in the course of shaping the global world. With regard to our region, in the context of support to the new and restored democracies, we consider the initiative of Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Uzbekistan to establish an open grouping, known as GUUAM, to be of particular importance. Additional impetus to the manifold cooperation within the grouping was given by the meeting of the heads of the GUUAM States during the Millennium Summit here in New York. Sometimes in newly established democracies a protracted process towards material welfare calls democratic values into question. One of the most burdensome problems in this respect is debt accommodation. I am confident that it is imperative to release poor and developing countries from this constraint. Writing off the debts will generate a stronger impetus, and create the opportunity for these States to firmly remain on the chosen course of democracy. We also believe that the all-encompassing process of globalization urgently calls for a dialogue of civilizations as a means of addressing the challenges of 14 the new millennium, as reaffirmed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) round table that preceded the Millennium Summit. I confirm Georgia's readiness, expressed by President Eduard Shevardnadze, to play an active role in facilitating such a dialogue. Much has changed in the 55-year history of the Organization, and today the world community is faced with a new type of challenge requiring novel approaches. In the past decade, there have been repeated calls for Security Council expansion. We support the principle of expanding both permanent and non-permanent membership in the Council by developed as well as developing countries to ensure adequate regional representation. We believe that the seat of a non-permanent member should be allocated for the Group of Eastern European States, the number of which has considerably increased. We are firm supporters of permanent membership for Germany and Japan and hope this issue will find its resolution before long. Georgia welcomes the increased transparency in the Security Council deliberations. We think that each Member State should be permitted to participate in the informal meetings of the Council, when the issues discussed are of concern to them. Time and again United Nations actions have been ineffective due to protracted decision-making and lack of consensus in the Security Council. Therefore, the reform of the Security Council should encompass its decision-making procedure, including the veto rights as well. Finally, I would reiterate that the challenges of the next millennium are myriad and complex. And it is crystal-clear that only united can we address the difficulties of the future and overcome the dividing barriers in shaping a new, global world order. I wish to all of us success in this endeavour.   Allow me at the outset to associate myself with previous speakers in congratulating Mr. Holkeri on his election to preside over the General Assembly at this historic session. It is a tribute to his distinguished political experience and to the invaluable contributions made by his country, Finland, to the work of our Organization. I should also like to extend my appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, for the excellent manner in which he discharged his responsibilities during the fiftyfourth session. I would also like to pay a special tribute to our Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, for the inspirational leadership and the moral authority he has brought to our Organization. His report to the Millennium Summit, “We the peoples”, will remain a powerful and luminous beacon as we strive to make the world a more just and peaceful place for future generations and the United Nations a more effective, efficient and responsive Organization in the new millennium. Exactly 35 years ago today, Maldives was admitted to the United Nations. We were proud to take a seat in this world body, which has seen steady growth in its membership, activities and influence. Today, we are pleased to welcome to our midst the island nation of Tuvalu. We look forward to working with Tuvalu in furthering the cause of small island nations for a more economically humane and socially just world that is environmentally sustainable in the future. Wars, hunger and famine have marred much of the twentieth century. Terrorism, drugs and the spread of HIV/AIDS threaten to destroy the peace and prosperity of our future generations. Economic inequality and social injustice have tended to increase, 16 despite many laudable efforts to the contrary. As technological advances bring untold riches and opportunities to many, many more continue to live in deprivation, their lives becoming increasingly marginalized in a fast-changing world. Only a few days back, the Millennium Summit brought together the largest-ever gathering of world leaders in human history. It was not only a historic occasion but also one that rekindled the hopes and aspirations of the world's peoples. The Millennium Declaration adopted at the Summit charts out a future vision for the world in which “the peoples” have rightfully been given pride of place in our efforts to reshape the future of humanity. As my President, President Abdul Gayoom, stated at the Millennium Summit, “The gap between expectation and result must be eliminated” (A/55/PV.3) in the new millennium. The leaders of the world have recognized the dangers posed to the future of humanity. They have pledged themselves to a better world — a world that is more just, a world in which every human being can live in dignity, a world that rejoices in its diversity of races, religions and culture. They have pledged to strengthen the United Nations so that it may have the resources and capability to deliver the dreams of “we the peoples” of the world. It now remains for us to translate these words into deeds, rhetoric to reality. Action must begin now. For over two decades, Maldives has managed to make significant economic and social progress. We are indeed proud of what we have achieved with the limited resources at our disposal. A stable political environment, a supportive international community and the creativity of our people have combined to help our economic growth. However, this does not reduce in any way the vulnerability of our economy. We continue to have a small and narrow economic base comprising fisheries and tourism, both of which are extremely susceptible to external forces that are often beyond our control. Indeed, the precarious nature of our economy is readily evidenced whenever the price of tuna plunges in the international market. Similarly, any downturn in the economy of major tourist markets or regional instability casts a long shadow on our tourist industry. We do not want to wear the least developed country label for ever. As a small but proud nation, we, too, would like to be a self-reliant country. National pride, unfortunately, does not feed our population or educate our children. It is for these reasons that during the Economic and Social Council meeting in July this year, Maldives argued against its removal from the list of least developed countries, which would undoubtedly pull the rug from underneath our feet. Indeed, our successes in national development to date have been highly dependent on the concessional finance and developmental assistance we have enjoyed as a least developed country. The withdrawal of access to such concessional assistance at this crucial stage of our development would seriously cripple our developmental efforts. Our economy will slide backwards if we lose preferential access to markets. Our debt burden will become unsustainable. We take some comfort in the decision made by the Economic and Social Council to defer the consideration of the recommendation to graduate Maldives from the list of least developed countries. The structural impediments facing our developmental efforts are so formidable that the country's graduation at this stage is not justified. Our geophysical fragmentation, combined with remoteness from major markets, accentuates our vulnerabilities, many of which are unique. Maldives is not simply an island nation; it is a nation of islands. In fact, we have over 1,100 small, low-lying islands. Our population is scattered over 198 islands, each of which needs to be provided with adequate administrative and socioeconomic infrastructure. Poor and porous soil conditions prohibit most agricultural production, while avenues for economic diversification are extremely limited. Transport and communication costs are prohibitive. That is why we have appealed to the international community to take a closer look at our situation and re-examine the issue of our graduation from the list of least developed countries. We hope the international community will understand and support our cause. Since the adoption of the Barbados Programme of Action, the small island developing States have been waiting for the international community to meet the pledges made at the Conference on small island developing States, while their economic and ecological challenges have increased manifold. We therefore are happy that the world leaders at the Millennium Summit have once again highlighted the special needs of small island developing States, including the necessity of developing a vulnerability index that can truly capture the unique features of these States. The leaders have 17 also resolved to implement rapidly and in full the Barbados Programme of Action and the outcome of the twenty-second special session of the General Assembly. These are welcome developments which we hope will soon be translated into action by the international community. Allow me to stress the importance of the early completion of the vulnerability index called for by this Assembly. In developing this index, we believe, the international community should take into account not only those factors that are similar among the island States but also those that are unique to particular island States. For example, while some may be prone to cyclones and hurricanes, others may be more affected by beach erosion or coral bleaching. Maldives has consistently voiced its concerns over the negative impact of environmental degradation on small island States. We welcomed the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol. Unfortunately, the slow pace of its ratification by the international community continues to endanger many small island developing States. It is indeed regrettable that to date only 23 countries have ratified the Protocol. We are, however, heartened by the fact that the Millennium Declaration calls upon the international community to expedite the early ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to ensure its entry into force by the tenth anniversary of United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in 2002. We call upon the United Nations to take a leading role in making the relevant resolve of our leaders at the Summit a reality. As the President of the Maldives, speaking at the Millennium Summit, declared, “Humanity's quest for progress must be sustainable. We have no right to destroy the Earth. Ecological damage must be stopped. Global warming must be curbed. All low-lying countries must be saved.” (A/55/PV.3) The protection and security of small States continue to constitute an issue of critical concern to my country. Among the 189 Members that compose the United Nations today, many are small countries which require protection from a variety of threats to their security. The Maldives believes that within the sphere of international peace and security, which has always remained a high priority on the United Nations agenda, the security of small States should continue to receive special consideration as a political and moral obligation of the international community. The interest and concern of the United Nations on this issue should not be allowed to diminish, even in the future. Globalization is today a reality. No country, large or small, can swim against the tide of globalization and the digital revolution that is reshaping the modern world. Globalization must benefit all countries. Its costs must be shared evenly by all countries. The least developed countries must be granted duty-free and quota-free access to the markets of developed countries for their exports. They deserve debt relief, including debt cancellation, in return for demonstrable commitments to poverty reduction. Development assistance needs to be increased. We remain hopeful that the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, to be held next year, will usher in a new era of development for the least developed countries. During the course of last year, the United Nations was able to record some important achievements. The follow-up sessions to the world conferences on women and on social development reaffirmed the goals of creating a more just and tolerant society. Modest but significant progress was achieved by the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons towards freeing the world from the scourge of nuclear arms. Efforts towards the establishment of an International Criminal Court are moving ahead. A valuable framework for strengthening United Nations peacekeeping operations has been laid out by the Brahimi report (A/55/305). Yet many shortcomings and frustrations continue to plague the world community. Conflicts based on ethnic arrogance rage on. Poverty persists at a level that is morally repugnant. The spread of the HIV/AIDS pandemic needs to be urgently addressed. International peace and security continue to be threatened by terrorism and drug trafficking cartels operating within and across borders. A comprehensive and permanent peace settlement in the Middle East continues to elude us. This is disappointing. We would like to reiterate our full support for the cause of the Palestinian people and to encourage the sponsors of the peace process in the Middle East to continue to pursue their efforts towards achieving a lasting peace in the region. The situation in the Gulf continues to trouble us. Peace, progress and security in that region can never be 18 achieved unless settlements on all unresolved issues are complied with fully by all the parties concerned in conformity with the relevant United Nations resolutions. We would like to reaffirm our unwavering support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kuwait. As I mentioned before, we continue to believe that the United Nations has an obligation to uphold the security and territorial integrity of all Member States, including small States. The Maldives firmly believes that the myriad challenges facing the world today can be effectively addressed only in a multilateral framework in which the United Nations must play the central role. Despite the many shortcomings it may have, the United Nations remains the only truly universal organization where global issues can be addressed. We believe that an increasingly interdependent world calls for a strengthened multilateral system with an effective international legal regime that is respected by all nations. It is with this conviction that the Maldives has become a State party to a number of international conventions and treaties, including the eight conventions and treaties to which we became party during the Millennium Summit, taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the Secretary-General. We fully support the steps being taken by the Secretary-General in the process of reforming our Organization. While there has been much progress, more remains to be done. Reform of the Security Council to reflect the political reality of the modern world is essential if the United Nations is to remain a credible and effective organization, enjoying the confidence of the peoples of the world. Reform of the United Nations must aim at enhancing the legitimacy of the Organization, making the United Nations more democratic and transparent, and reinforcing the ability of the United Nations to uphold equality among nations. At the Millennium Summit, our leaders illuminated the way forward. It now remains for us to move forward in concert, for the benefit of the peoples of the world.  Less than a week ago, in this same Hall, the President of the Republic of Guatemala, Alfonso Portillo Cabrera, addressed the Millennium Summit. On that occasion the President underscored our commitment to the purposes, principles and values of the Charter of the United Nations, and presented a summary of our view of the role of this universal Organization in the twenty- first century. In closing, he stated: “In the course of the general debate that will begin in the General Assembly next week, we will elaborate further on this vision and how it is reflected in the efforts we are making domestically.” (A/55/PV.3) I am honoured and pleased to deliver what our President promised. I shall address two issues: first, our Government programme and the implementation of the peace agreements, and secondly, our position vis-à-vis some of the items on the agenda for this session. Before doing so, I wish to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his vigorous conduct of the last session, and particularly for his resolute work in the preparation for the Millennium Summit. We are pleased that Guatemala had an opportunity to cooperate in this undertaking. I also wish to congratulate the President very warmly on his election to preside over our debates. I have no doubt that his recognized diplomatic and political experience will enable us to obtain the best results. 16 I begin with a few words on the peace process in my country, to which the United Nations has made such a significant contribution. December 1996 saw the signing, following a protracted period of arduous negotiations of Agreements that brought to an end four decades of a fratricidal war that had tragic and lasting consequences. Our political party was not a signatory. However, during the electoral campaign it affirmed, that it accepted the Agreements as a State commitment, and President Portillo confirmed that in the speech he made on taking office. Similarly, our Government is fully committed to complying with the provisions of the Agreements, and indeed to extend their scope to incorporate new matters, such as democratizing access to credit. We value highly the presence in our country of the United Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala, and request the Assembly's cooperation for the extension, in due course, of its mandate until the end of 2003. It is important to note that the purpose of the Peace Agreements coincides with our own Government programme in many areas, such as unrestricted respect for human rights; consolidation of a full, participatory democracy; subordination of the armed forces to the civil power; development of a multi-ethnic, multicultural and multilingual society; strengthening and modernization of the justice system; reform of the State; and, above all, an adequate response to the unsatisfied demands of the majority of Guatemalans for more and better social services, adequate incomes, better-paid jobs and equality of opportunity. In other words, the Peace Agreements constitute a suitable frame of reference for the programme of our Government, which aims not only to fulfil, but to improve on them. Our economic and social programmes for the period 2000-2004 fit within this frame of reference, as does the political covenant, which seeks to increase the participation of all sections of civil society in the public policy decision-making process. These programmes also seek to reconcile the difficult economic situation that we face with our commitment to carry forward a vigorous process of economic expansion for the benefit of all Guatemalans — above all, the neediest. We are, in other words, grappling with the classic dilemma of having to meet the requirements of a macroeconomic adjustment while coping with the imperative need to reactivate the economy. At the centre of the national debate about how to overcome this dilemma is a process of intersectoral accommodation that we call the “fiscal covenant”, which aims to fulfil one of the commitments in the Peace Agreements, namely, raising the tax take in Guatemala by 50 per cent between 1995 and 2000. The arduous and lengthy negotiations that have been conducted in this connection are about to come to fruition with the adoption of a set of measures which, once the commitment has been honoured — admittedly, a couple of years late — will provide financial support for implementing the other undertakings laid down in the Peace Agreements. We intend to establish the necessary bases so that in the period 2001-2004 we may secure dynamic growth of the economy, with the resulting generation of decent, gainful productive employment together with higher levels of savings and investment. We shall invest in the future by according priority to the work force, particularly in the areas of health and education, including multilingual education. We shall carry out new productive activities in those areas where we feel that we have comparative advantages to offer at the international level. We shall stimulate the institutional environment necessary to facilitate the efficient functioning of the market through competition without privileges and the competitiveness of enterprises, all within the framework of absolute respect for labour law. We shall devote special attention to combating poverty, by decentralizing the public administration and working closely with those who are to be the target of our policies. Now turning to our international relations, and bearing in mind those issues dealt with at the Millennium Summit, I wish to mention the significant advance achieved in the process as we seek to resolve our historic dispute with Belize. With full regard for the principles of peaceful settlement of disputes between or among States, we have reached a new stage whereby dialogue has been chosen as the means to settle differences. On 31 August, within the framework of the regional body to which both States belong, namely the Organization of American States (OAS), a body of facilitators, appointed by each party, has been set up. The facilitators enjoy full independence in the performance of their duties. Their chief aim is to work 17 out and propose courses of action to advance the legal resolution of the dispute. These are significant steps towards creating a peaceful environment, the adoption of confidence-building measures and a future-oriented or forward-looking outlook. Similarly, we ratify, our deep commitment to supporting Central American integration, as well as our commitment to the rest of Latin America and the Caribbean. Our Government has taken important initiatives in the area of regional and subregional integration. Evidence of this is the tripartite declaration adopted last May by Guatemala, El Salvador and Nicaragua in order to give fresh impetus to Central American integration. The question of migrations is also an important branch of our international relations, one where Guatemala bases its policy on the principle that whatever the legal status of migrants may be, they are human beings fully entitled to rights under the law and, as such, capable of invoking the full range of human rights. Evidence of this is the fact that during his visit to the United Nations in connection with the Millennium Summit, the President of the Republic, signed the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of their Families. The best way to discourage migration is to create sources of employment in the countries of origin. The industrial countries, therefore, must dismantle all kinds of barriers so that developing countries are enabled to export commodities and not people. I should now like briefly to explain our thinking on those main items that will be discussed in the Assembly at its fifty-fifth regular session. First, I wish to restate our full backing for the United Nations, as expressed by President Portillo last week, since the Organization is the highest embodiment of multilateralism. We are persuaded that the Organization will have a crucial role to play in the twenty-first century. I attest to the tangible contribution that the United Nations has recently made in my country as regards both the consolidation of peace and in cooperation for development through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and United Nations agencies. Secondly, we also wish to observe that it is necessary to adapt the Organization to the exigencies of globalization and to this post-cold war era. It is up to us, as member Governments, to promote this adaptation in various spheres such as intergovernmental bodies, efficiency and effectiveness of the Secretariat, the setting of priorities in the programme of activities and the financial strengthening of the Organization. Of the pending reforms, the one which has received most attention is the Security Council. Can there be any doubt that its membership or its methods of work must reflect the prevailing circumstances of a contemporary world? There is no need to be frustrated at the lack of progress in prior sessions of the General Assembly in connection with the reform of the Security Council. We appreciate that there are differing viewpoints in this regard and, of course, differences tend to stalemate or paralyse action. But this should not prevent us from redoubling our efforts to make this absolutely vital organ of the United Nations more effective, more representative of the Members of the Organization as a whole and more transparent in the way it operates. To achieve those ends we advocate, among other things, expansion of the membership of the Council as well as an exercise of the veto in strict conformity with the Charter. We feel that, at any rate, regular use should be subject to review by the General Assembly and, in extreme instances, by the International Court of Justice in the interests of a genuine rule of law of an international character, thus avoiding abuses. Thirdly, we are convinced that we need to strengthen our collective capacity to prevent and settle conflicts, both across borders and domestically. We believe that the recently submitted report by the Panel on United Nations peacekeeping operations offers an excellent point of departure for this purpose. Our only preliminary observation on the matter is that strengthening the United Nations capacity in this area should not be carried out at the expense of our economic and social activities. Rather, should we decide to implement the recommendations of the Group of Experts, then the time will have come to put an end to an ill-conceived policy of zero growth of the United Nations budget. As President Portillo stated: “If we want the United Nations to be a first class institution, we must learn to provide it with the necessary financial support.” (A/55/PV.3) This brings me to a fourth point that has gained considerable prominence in the agenda for this session. 18 I refer to the controversial question of revising the scale of assessments both for the regular budget and for the peacekeeping counterpart. Our position is very straightforward. We agree that the relative situation of many countries has developed over the years and this warrants a revision of the way in which we share the burden of financially maintaining the United Nations. At the same time, however, we feel that the most important criterion for fixing the scale of assessments is ability to pay. The relative participation of countries in the gross domestic product of the world continues to provide a basic yardstick. There is also justification for weighting this yardstick on the basis of certain special considerations, such as, for instance, recognition of the special situation of the least-developed countries on the one hand, and, on the other, of the special responsibility that should be assumed by the permanent members of the Security Council for maintaining peace. In fifth place, as regards general disarmament, we emphasize the need to advance towards total elimination of nuclear, chemical and bacteriological weapons; illicit trafficking in small arms, and the use of anti-personnel mines and explosive devices. In respect of these matters we strongly support all practical action being undertaken by the United Nations to achieve these aims as well as those designed to establish nuclear-weapon-free zones in all parts of the world. In the sixth place, we offer our full support for and active participation in the main events scheduled in the coming years. Among them, I wish to single out the high-level intergovernmental event on financing for development and the World Conference on Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance. In the seventh place, in an increasingly interdependent world, multilateral diplomacy has a crucial role to play in the struggle against environmental degradation. As Guatemala is a party to the main global environmental treaties, we reaffirm our commitment to the maintenance of ecological balance. Finally, we feel the United Nations should continue to concern itself with what we have called the great unfinished task of the twentieth century: eradicating world poverty. Together with the multilateral financial institutions, our Organization should play a crucial role in ensuring that the benefits of globalization are widely shared by all countries. This calls for action at the level of each country, but also at the international level. Similarly, by way of general comment, we wish to reiterate, before this Assembly, that Guatemala, in its very flesh, has experienced fratricidal confrontation. That is why Guatemala has the moral authority to insist, before God and man, that peace reign among all the peoples of the world, particularly between the separated brothers of China and Taiwan. We therefore appeal for the continuation of talks in order to achieve an outcome that will fulfil the aspirations of the Chinese people on both sides of the Strait, reached through peaceful, free and democratic means. Likewise, we trust that a prompt solution to the Middle East conflict will be found and that situations of tension in the African continent and other parts of Europe will be overcome, as well as among any other fraternal people of the world who are victims of violence and discord. I wish to conclude my statement by expressing a personal conviction. I am persuaded that all human beings are equal in the eyes of the Almighty, without distinction as to race, language or creed. I trust that in that same spirit we shall be able to beginning from this session to give effect to the guidelines enshrined in the Millennium Declaration adopted last week.First of all I would like to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, and wish you every success with your work. I would like to thank Foreign Minister Gurirab for his dedication in chairing the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I welcome Tuvalu as the one hundred and eighty-ninth member of the United Nations and congratulate it on its accession. I endorse the statement of my French colleague, Hubert VÈdrine, on behalf of the European Union. At this session of the General Assembly, the first in the new millennium, we are asked to determine the future tasks of the United Nations and which reforms are necessary in order to master them. The Millennium Declaration, which we all adopted on 8 September, shows us the way forward. The implementation of this Declaration should be a main focus of the consultations of this and future sessions of the General Assembly. I propose that the Secretary-General make use of the opportunity to draw up review reports at the beginning of the next session of the General Assembly. There was one issue in particular which dominated this debate, namely globalization. It will radically change the economy and finances, politics and culture everywhere. The question is, will a new order which guarantees peace, justice and an equal share in our common progress be established or will a new divide evolve in the world? Will the future of the globalized world manifest its pluralist character in a multilateral order? Only the future can provide the answers to these questions. Particularly for developing countries, globalization offers great opportunities. If it nevertheless provokes strong opposition, this lies in the imbalances of this historical process. Indeed, just under a decade after the end of the cold war, our world is today at risk from a new divide, one between the winners and losers of the economic globalization process. In his impressive Millennium Report, the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, rightly highlights the growing inequalities in the distribution of income, resources, investments and access to new technologies. In view of this situation, the international community must make every effort in the coming decade to ensure that globalization benefits all peoples. If market forces are not balanced by a political corrective mechanism, it is to be expected that injustice in the world will increase further. Those who have been hitherto excluded from the advantages of globalization must be included to a greater extent. They must be given more say in the political decisions made about steering global processes and they must be given an opportunity to gain a fairer share in the development of the world economy. In the twenty-first century, we will, more than ever before, need a form of global governance if we are to solve global challenges. The United Nations will play a key role here. It is the only organization within which the injustice between rich and poor can be overcome and where a reconciliation between peoples and regions, global peace and sustainable development can be achieved. Greatly strengthening the United Nations capacity to act is, therefore, a crucial question for the whole of 15 humanity in the twenty-first century. In addition to the crucial reform of the Security Council, this will entail the United Nations entering into creative partnerships with industry and civil society. Germany strongly supports the Secretary- General's idea for a global compact with major companies. The German initiative for a resolution in the General Assembly on global partnerships will take up this and other issues relating to the globalization process. Global poverty is the key problem in North-South relations. It lies at the root of many global risks and threats to peace. The Secretary-General provided precise and stimulating analyses of this in his report. The industrialized nations have a special obligation to support the poorest of the poor. With the Cologne debt initiative launched by Germany, we are combining debt relief with a strategy to combat poverty. The 20 poorest developing countries should be debt-free by the end of the year. The least developed countries should be granted access to world markets with the greatest possible exemption from duties and quotas. We must, also by way of liberalization steps in the World Trade Organization, prevent these countries from being socially excluded even further. This applies in particular to the new economy. The United Nations and its Member States must intensify their efforts to make it easier for these countries to use the information and communication technologies. This is contingent upon initiatives in the field of education, as well as the availability of the necessary resources. However, how can poor countries ever catch up economically if they are, at the same time, afflicted to a much greater degree than the North by terrible diseases? The fight against the disastrous spread of the AIDS virus, particularly in Africa, must be priority for us all. The focus must be on prevention. At the same time, access to medicines must be improved and vaccine research must be intensified. The World Bank's promising idea of establishing a future fund for the purchase of vaccines deserves every support. Particularly in the fight against AIDS, new partnerships between Governments and companies are crucial. The second major issue of this General Assembly is peacekeeping. The Secretary-General showed the way ahead with the Brahimi report. The recommendations it contains should be examined and implemented as quickly as possible. Germany will play its part. Peace missions need a more robust mandate, as well as more personnel and equipment. Member States must do considerably more to ensure the rapid secondment of well-trained troops, police officers and civilian experts. The further development of the police concept is one of the most important tasks in this connection as the last few months and years have, in fact been teaching us. The German Government will offer German training for civilian peace-mission personnel and offer civilian capacities to the United Nations stand-by system. In addition, we are drafting a plan for training civilian experts for peace missions, thus creating a pool of qualified personnel who can be deployed at short notice. The prevailing form of conflict today is conflict within States. Therefore the main task of peacekeeping must be to address the internal roots of conflicts. In addition to focusing on an improvement in socio- economic conditions, our efforts must focus on promoting human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Mary Robinson, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, aptly said that the human rights violations of today are the wars of tomorrow. Numerous concrete tasks are on the agenda. The protocols relating to the involvement of children in armed conflict and to the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography must enter into force as early as possible. The equality of women must be advanced in all spheres. I call upon all states to ratify quickly the new Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and to abolish all laws that discriminate against women by 2005. The World Conference against racism, to be held in 2001, must tackle all aspects of this issue. Out of a sense of responsibility for our history, our State and our society will stand up firmly against all forms of right-wing radicalism, racism and anti-Semitism, both in our own country and in the world. I call upon all States to respect the integrity of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, to sign and to ratify it, so that the Court can commence work soon. There can be no exceptions to the Rome Statute. 16 One of the greatest dangers facing humanity remains the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The risk of regional arms races, particularly in South Asia, has increased. Further developing the international arms-control regime therefore continues to be one of the United Nations key tasks. This will require resolute implementation of the results of the sixth Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Against this background, President Clinton's decision not to commit now to the development of a national missile defence system is very welcome. The Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty must remain as a cornerstone of strategic stability and the basis for further nuclear-disarmament measures. In poor countries the excessive stockpiling of small arms must be stopped. We must therefore do everything we can to achieve tangible progress at the United Nations small arms conference to be held in 2001. This presupposes the inclusion of all aspects, including the legal transfer of production and stockpiles. Regional cooperation has proved to be an extremely effective means of preventing conflicts. The United Nations can do much to help here. Allow me to mention two regions where progress is particularly urgent. The triangle between Central Asia, the Caucasus and the Middle East is full of destabilizing factors oil, religious fundamentalism, terrorism, drugs and the nuclear arms race and this area is threatening to become the crisis region of the century ahead. A new comprehensive regional process, along the lines of the Helsinki model, which fosters cooperation instead of confrontation, could play an important stabilizing role. Germany is prepared to take part in such a process. In Africa, regional approaches have gained in significance. In the main, however, it is, unfortunately, too early to talk of effective peacekeeping structures. Unfortunately, the efforts on the part of the United Nations and of the Organization of African Unity to resolve the conflicts in the Congo and Sierra Leone have not achieved a breakthrough so far. In the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea it is to be hoped that the ceasefire that has finally been concluded will be consolidated and that the United Nations peace mission will be lent the full support of the parties to the conflict. The third issue, protection of our natural environment, will probably become the crucial issue affecting our planet. In the course of the twentieth century the world's population quadrupled, while consumption of energy and raw materials increased tenfold. We must end the squandering of natural resources and switch to renewable energy sources as quickly as possible. This cannot only be a matter for industrialized nations. We are witnessing at this very moment what a burden high oil prices places on poor countries in particular. It must be in the interest of all States to bring about the transition from the oil to the hydrogen age as quickly as possible. The most important thing now is to finally overcome the deadlock in the climate-protection negotiations and to ensure that the Kyoto Protocol can be implemented by 2002, 10 years after the Rio Summit. Another key issue for humanity, the future of genetic engineering, can only be mastered within the framework of a global consensus. Genetic engineering has the potential to revolutionalize medicine and agriculture. At the same time, it raises more ethical and human rights questions than any other technology. Do we not need clear, binding rules for dealing with such a powerful new technology? Why do we not seriously consider within the United Nations creating under international law a convention that meaningfully promotes genetic engineering and safeguards the freedom to research and the findings of this research, while, at the same time, defining an ethical basis and guaranteeing protection against abuse? The Millennium Declaration points the way ahead. But what help will that be if an increasing number of Members allow the world's real problems to be dealt with and decided somewhere else? If we do not succeed in adapting the United Nations to deal with the challenges of the twenty-first century and in modernizing it fully, it will be sidelined, with fatal consequences for peace and development, human rights, the environment and social progress. We will all, rich and poor, lose out. We must therefore muster the strength to resolutely implement the Millennium Declaration. We need a world Organization that is strong and we must use its scarce resources more effectively. An important prerequisite for this is that the United Nations be placed finally on a solid financial footing. Together with its European Union partners, Germany has put 17 forward proposals for a fairer, more balanced scale of assessments, which must continue to be based on Member States' ability to pay.. The Security Council no longer reflects the political reality of our world at the dawn of the new millennium. We share the Secretary-General's view that this central steering organ of the international community must become more representative, legitimate and effective, also involving the developing countries. Last week Chancellor Schroeder reaffirmed Germany's willingness to take on more responsibility in this connection. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my friend and colleague Robin Cook for the clear language that he used before the General Assembly just a few minutes ago. The General Assembly must structure its work, debate global problems in a more focused fashion than hitherto and identify courses of action. The synergetic potential between United Nations organizations, for example in the environmental field, must be better used and resources pooled to a greater extent by merging organizations. Reform of the United Nations will play a decisive role in ensuring that the twenty-first century is safer and more just than the twentieth century. Allow me to conclude with a quote from the Secretary-General's Millennium Report: No shift in the way we think or act can be more critical than this: we must put people at the centre of everything we do ... Only when that begins to happen will we know that globalization is indeed becoming inclusive, allowing everyone to share its opportunities.'Allow me, first of all, to congratulate you most warmly, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to express the conviction that under your authority our work will be conducted with the same high level of vision and competence demonstrated by the President of your country, Ms. Tarja Halonen, in her Co-Chairpersonship of the Millennium Summit at the side of the President of Namibia, Mr. Sam Nujoma. I also extend my thanks and congratulations to the Secretary-General, who continues to imbue the international Organization and the entire international staff he commands with the virtues of rigour, moderation and integrity that he embodies in his service to the great ideals of the Organization. Those are the same ideals that have just been reaffirmed by the Heads of State and Government. They also reaffirmed their confidence in the capacity of the United Nations to ensure the advancement of, and respect for, those ideals so long as the international community gives the Organization the necessary support through a renewed commitment. For a small State such as Monaco, nothing is more important than such a reaffirmation of the ideals that should govern relations between sovereign States in a spirit of equality and dignity. It is not a question of disregarding the profound differences that may exist between States with regard to their objective characteristics, influence or weight in the affairs of the world. However, it is appropriate to reaffirm the fact that, no matter how small, each State should enjoy the right to respect, and that all States are be bound by the same rules in conducting international affairs. Its history of over seven centuries makes it possible for Monaco to gauge what that reaffirmation represents, a reaffirmation supported by the common determination of all States represented here. For its 2 part, the Principality associates itself fully with the impetus provided by the Millennium Summit. To the extent it is able, Monaco intends to contribute to developing the full potential of that impetus. Allow me, before I touch on the principal issues we will be dealing with at this session in which Monaco has a longstanding interest to address a topic that seems to require some clarification: the Principality of Monaco itself. Though the notoriety enjoyed by the Principality seems well established, since the whole world has heard of it, all too often people have a one-sided view of it in which it is reduced to a set of appealing but vaguely archaic clichÈs. Many people still believe that the casino is the main source of income for the State, while in fact the assessment paid by the SocietÈ des Bains de Mer, which manages the casino, yields only 4 per cent of public revenue. The rest derives primarily from taxes and income from public property. In truth, the structure of our budget is not very different from that of any other country. As concerns expenses, many might envy us, as we are able each year to devote a third of our resources to investing in civil engineering projects. Many people also believe that we depend to a large extent on tourism. We are pleased, of course, that Monaco attracts about 6 million visitors a year. But here again reality contradicts the image of a tourism- dependent economy, because tourism accounts for only 10 per cent of the principality's revenues. Of the rest, 40 per cent are the product of local or international commerce, 20 per cent of banking activities, 10 percent of industrial activities emanating from about 100 high-technology, non-polluting companies and the rest derive from a variety of services. Clearly, Monaco, rather than being a sort of old- style paradise for a happy few, has all the characteristics of a highly developed country. In this connection, we must also note to what extent the Principality provides jobs in the region. Though Monaco has 30,000 residents, it has 38,000 workers, some 30,000 of which live outside of Monaco and commute to the Principality every day, which enables them and their families to enjoy the same social benefits and educational, sports and medical amenities as the people of Monaco themselves. Monaco is undoubtedly a small country, but it does not live in the past. On the contrary, we have a broad and modern outlook, and it is this vision that has enabled us to become a highly developed State that use state-of-the-art technology and is involved in massive projects, such as the one that has enabled us to build out over the sea and thus expand our territory by more than 20 per cent during the reign of the current Sovereign Prince. Although all of this is based on unarguable fact, some still question the source of our prosperity. To our surprise and indignation, we recently heard it said that the Principality was too lenient with respect to certain criminal activities. Quite the opposite: we have sought ways and means of combating criminal activities and have consistently reaffirmed our will to strengthen the measures we take to meet the challenges of today. All foreign activities require Government authorization, which is granted only following an in- depth investigation. Nearly every week the Governmental Council must veto certain projects. In the area of banking and finance, monitoring systems have been set up, and here we also rely on the help of our great friend and neighbour, France. The legislation in place to combat money-laundering is the same as that in most developed countries. In fact, in certain areas, it is even more stringent. Monaco has set up an information and monitoring service on financial flows to allow for the involvement of legal authorities when necessary and for the exchange of information with the equivalent foreign institutions. The Principality is in no way a laissez- faire zone in which all types of wealth can be accumulated. Nor can it be termed an `opaque' financial venue, unless we believe that transparency does not exist anywhere. Some see Monaco as a kind of fiscal paradise, as if we had attempted to create artificial mechanisms to attract floating capital and wealthy people trying to avoid taxation in their own countries. The truth is that direct taxation was abolished in 1869, at a time when there was no tax on the income of natural persons anywhere in the world, and thus competition could not have been an issue. The fact that this situation continues to prevail today certainly places Monaco among the countries having `soft' tax laws. But there are, in fact, taxes: two-thirds of the country's income emanates from direct or indirect fiscal contributions, 3 that is to say, the value-added tax and the tax on the profits realized from commercial, industrial and intellectual activities. In sum, Monaco is a highly developed country that wishes to be an active participant in the European sphere and that observes all international commitments to combat present-day scourges such as financial criminality and money laundering, which pose a clear threat to the equilibrium of financial systems. The Principality is, by its very nature, supportive of its environment, but this is also the will of leadership. I now turn to the basis of its external activities, which also reflect its status as a small State focusing on a few areas in which its tradition, experience and abilities can provide added value at the international level. One of our priorities has always been humanitarian action and social development. This was made clear when, on 26 June last, His Serene Highness the Hereditary Prince of Monaco, signed, in the presence of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the two Optional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the involvement of children in armed conflict and on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. The actions taken in relation to the World Summit for Social Development will be followed up during the special session to review the achievement of the goals of the World Summit for Children, to be held next year. We expect that session effectively to address the issue of the protection of children, who are always the first among the civilian population to suffer in time of war. The Principality also wishes to contribute to development at the public level as well as in terms of the non-governmental organizations, which are very active in Monaco, where they receive the strong support of all those who feel themselves morally obligated to contribute to the activities undertaken in a spirit of solidarity by a country that allows them to lead a privileged life. We expect from the upcoming Conference on the fight against poverty in the least developed countries, to be held next May, and in particular from the 10-year review of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, known as Rio + 10, a new impetus for international cooperation in these areas so vital to the future of humanity, in which progress is currently lagging. It goes without saying that environmental issues, including in particular those relating to the marine environment, have always been priority concerns for Monaco, situated as it is on the Mediterranean coast. We will continue to follow up on these activities and to take initiatives along the lines of those we have been promoting. I can only reaffirm the role that the Principality plays in all relevant forums to intensify the struggle against the severe scourges of our times, such as terrorism, trafficking in drugs and in human beings, and the illegal financial flows which they create or sustain. Let me conclude by expressing the hope that I have been able to provide a clearer view of the situation in present-day Monaco, a situation of contrasts. Monaco is one of the smallest countries in the world, but at the same time one of the most highly developed. It is an anachronism for those with an unrealistic or prejudiced view, but its economic structures reflect great modernity and dynamism. Its image may be identified with play and leisure, but the fact is that it creates jobs well beyond its borders. It is viewed as a curiosity, yet it remains an acknowledged sovereign State, as proved by its participation in the principal international organizations and by the fact that its voice is heard in areas where its contribution deserves to be taken into account. I could continue that list of contradictions, but I think those are sufficient to provide a key to what His Serene Highness Prince Rainier III said when he opened the fabulous new Grimaldi Forum a conference and cultural centre in Monaco in summarizing the inspiration that has always sustained his dynasty and the Principality over the centuries: `One does not need a great territory to have great dreams, or a great number of people to make them come true.At the outset, I wish to extend my congratulations to Mr. Holkeri on his unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I am confident that, under his able and wise guidance, this session will successfully accomplish its tasks. I would also like to express appreciation and thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, for the effectiveness with which he directed the work of the last session. I also take this opportunity to extend congratulations to the Republic of Tuvalu on becoming the latest Member of the United Nations. We shall not forget to express our thanks and appreciation to our Secretary-General, not only for his tireless efforts to ensure respect for the values, purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, but also for his far-sighted and thought-provoking millennium report. The fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly is meeting in the wake of the Millennium Summit, whose Declaration embodies three fundamental messages. First, it reaffirms that the ideals and goals of the United Nations are still sacred to humanity and that the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter are as valid today as they were in the past. Secondly, it reminds us that the lofty principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter require us to continuously strengthen the United Nations and to make the necessary adjustments and changes to enable it to meet the challenges of justice, peace and security, poverty and disease, socio-economic development, the inequities of the global economy and the protection of the environment. Thirdly, respect for the ideals and observance of the purposes and principles of the United Nations remain the essential keys to the creation of a peaceful, prosperous and humane new world order. To this end, the Declaration enjoins us to be loyal to these common ideals, goals, values and principles. It reminds us that each State has a responsibility to act not only by itself, but also within a regional system, to give the loyalty that is due to these values, goals, purposes and principles. In this connection, I wish to join others before me who have reminded us of the urgent need to reform the United Nations, including in particular the Security Council and the General Assembly, with a view to enabling the Organization to reflect the realities of the times and to empower it to meet effectively and efficiently the challenges of the day and the future. I wish to reaffirm the commitment of the people and the Government of the State of Eritrea to the noble ideals and values, as well as the purposes and 18 principles, of the United Nations. Having made supreme sacrifices and paid dearly, during a 30-year struggle for independence and membership in the international community, Eritreans appreciate how essential the United Nations and its Charter are to their well-being and prosperity. Having fully experienced the horrors of a long war and the benefits of a short peace, they recognize the need for the peaceful and just settlement of disputes and for cooperation for mutual benefit in the long human struggle to create an international order based on justice and equality. To this end, Eritrean foreign policy has been premised on the assumption that the threat or use of force can never be an instrument of foreign policy, and that even in a clear case self-defence it must be used only after all available methods of peacefully resolving disputes have been exhausted — and then only with extreme caution. It is for this reason — and because Eritrea has suffered from the non-application by the United Nations itself of the principles of its own Charter and the decisions of the General Assembly — that, upon independence, Eritrea decided to make the ideals, values, purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter the cornerstone of its foreign policy. By its membership, it had also hoped to play an active role in promoting the principle of the universality of membership in the United Nations and in promoting the achievement of fair and equitable regional and international orders. Eritrea is also fully aware of its responsibilities as a littoral State of a strategic international thoroughfare and has committed itself to contributing its share to the stability and security of the region, as well as to the creation of a zone of peace and cooperation in the region. To this end, it has made every effort to foster an atmosphere that will enhance cooperation among the littoral States of both sides of the Red Sea and promote development and mutual prosperity. It has also played a major role in the transformation of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) from a simple natural disaster-control mechanism to a vibrant regional organization which will promote peace and cooperation among its member States, as well as advance economic and social cooperation for development. The recent meeting of the ever- expanding Community of Sahelo-Saharan States, in Asmara, our capital, is a testimony to Eritrea's commitment to the consolidation of the unity of and the broadening and deepening of cooperative relations between African countries. This commitment will for ever be firm. In spite of its victimization, Eritrea had decided to forget the past and to start with a clean slate as it evolved a vision, and set its priorities, for the future. It established good relations with all its neighbours on the basis of the United Nations and Organization of African Unity Charters and the principle of good- neighbourliness. It assumed that there would not be any territorial disputes with its neighbours, since its colonial borders were clearly defined and recognized and had been accepted at independence by all its neighbours. It had no reason to assume that its independence would be threatened by any State, near or far, any more than it had any reason to assume that it had the right to use force to expand at the expense of its neighbours. Its sole ambition as a new member of the international community was to make up for lost time in development. In spite of all its commitments and goodwill, however, Eritrea has, during its brief seven years of formal independence, been tested by and had to defend itself against political pressures, threats and actual attempts which endangered not only its sovereignty and territorial integrity, but also its hard-won independence. True, Eritrea may not be the only new country in history that has been so tested. Yet it must be the only Member of the United Nations whose territorial integrity — indeed, its very existence as a sovereign, independent State — has been threatened and is still being threatened at the beginning of the twenty-first century. It goes without saying that this struggle to preserve its independence has been detrimental to the nation-building and development efforts of the new State. Yet throughout this time, Eritrea has never wavered in its commitment to the peaceful resolution of the disputes. Indeed, it has solved two of its problems peacefully on a bilateral basis and a third through international arbitration. It was perhaps during the last two years that Eritrea's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity were most severely tested. What was labelled a border dispute proved to be a serious attempt to reverse history and to recolonize Eritrea — or, failing that, to truncate it, to Finlandize it, and to turn it into a satellite State. This attempt was thwarted by the united 19 effort of Eritreans at home and abroad. However, the attempt exacted its cost: the systematic and wilful destruction of much of the economic and social infrastructure of the country and the deliberate, brutal violation of the human rights of Eritreans, including the terrorizing and brutalizing of the population in the occupied territories. Eritrea is convinced that there is no alternative to the solution of conflicts by peaceful means and on the basis of the Charters of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the existing principles of international law. From the beginning of the conflict, Eritrea has repeatedly declared that war can never be an option to resolve conflicts, that neither of the parties can settle the conflict by imposing its will and creating facts on the ground and then hope to achieve durable and meaningful peace. It is a clear manifestation of its commitment to peace and the rule of law that Eritrea still remains committed to a peaceful resolution of the conflict, notwithstanding the occupation of large tracts of its territory, the displacement of hundreds of thousands of its people, the continued brutalization and terrorization of the people in occupied territory and the feverish war preparations for yet another attempt against its territorial integrity. It has already taken bold measures, shown flexibility and made important concessions, however unpalatable they may have been, in the hope of achieving a just peace and in spite of the attempts that are being made to destroy the OAU peace proposals. Again, Eritrea pledges that it will continue to do its utmost to reach a comprehensive and conclusive agreement peacefully. Yet, the fate of peace hinges on three critical factors. First, the search for peace is a shared responsibility. It cannot be left to only one of the parties. Secondly, peace can be made certain only when it is anchored on the values, ideals and principles of the Charter, which have been emphatically reconfirmed by the Millennium Declaration. Among these is respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. Thirdly, peace can be achieved only with the faithful implementation of agreements accepted by parties to a conflict. We invite all concerned to join Eritrea in extending full cooperation to the OAU Facilitators, in making a genuine and unequivocal commitment to the OAU peace process and in being faithful to the letter and spirit of the provisions of the OAU peace documents, in particular the Framework Agreement and the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement. At this juncture, I wish to seize this opportunity to renew our appreciation and gratitude to His Excellency President Abdelaziz Bouteflika for his unwavering commitment to the peaceful resolution of the conflict, and to his personal envoy, His Excellency Ahmed Ouyahia, for the wisdom and skill with which he led the indirect talks. We also extend our appreciation to the international community, including the Government of the United States of America and the European Union, as well as other African governments, for their tireless efforts towards the achievement of a peaceful resolution and for the positive contribution they made to ensure the signing of the Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities in Algiers on 18 June 2000. We request them to persist in their noble endeavour until a genuine and just peace is really achieved. Finally, the Government of the State of Eritrea notes with great appreciation the effort that has been exerted, and the commitments made, by the United Nations to ensure an early, comprehensive settlement of the conflict. In this connection, I wish to draw the attention of the Security Council to the urgent necessity of deploying the peacekeeping force authorized by its resolution 1320 (2000) as quickly as possible in order to forestall any avoidable obstacles that may threaten, or even destroy, the gains that have been achieved at great cost and much effort by so many.   Mr. President, allow me first of all to congratulate you sincerely on your election to the presidency of the 4 fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly and to express my confidence that under your skilful leadership the Assembly will cope successfully with all the issues before it. I would also like to commend the President of the previous session, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on his remarkable contribution to the success of the fifty- fourth session as well as to the preparations for the Millennium Summit. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate a new Member of our Organization, Tuvalu, and to wish it a successful start in the work of the current session. Two weeks ago, we all witnessed a unique historic event: the Millennium Summit of the United Nations, in which about 150 Heads of State or Government took part. Remarkable ideas and proposals were voiced and a Summit Declaration was adopted. The time that we have to fulfil the commitments made by our leaders at the Millennium Summit has already begun to elapse. The twentieth century is coming to an end. Humankind will recall this century as an epoch of outstanding contrasts: scientific-technological and spiritual-intellectual progress, the bloodshed of two world wars, the collapse of empires, the emergence of new sovereign States, the cold war and collective efforts for the sake of peace and stability. What will the world be like in the approaching century? The end of the confrontation of two systems and the prevalence of ideas about democracy and the free market should contribute to the formation of a world in which the interests of all States are taken into account and a genuine and equal partnership is established. However, an analysis of the development of the international environment leads us to the bitter conclusion that stereotypes of rivalry are still alive. We are living through a very difficult period, when a single wrong step could destabilize the situation and, tragically, lead to a return to the past. We have a long way to go to build a just and secure world order. It can be achieved only by the joint efforts of all States, large and small, rich and poor, developed and developing. The year 2001 has been declared the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. We are convinced that we should not let this opportunity slip by, and should use this dialogue to consider together the prospects for resolving the complex problems facing humankind. The year 2001 will also stand out because of another remarkable event: the special session of the General Assembly to review the outcome of the World Summit for Children, which will be held next September. I believe that I do not need to underline its significance. As a member of the Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund, my country is actively participating in the preparations for this important event. The fact that both of these events are being held at the juncture of two millenniums is highly symbolic and should contribute to the achievement of a qualitatively new level of interaction among States aimed at global progress. Globalization is the main feature of the current stage of the development of the world economy. It is a complex and objective process. Countries are concerned about the prospects of this phenomenon. While opening up new possibilities for developing economies, ensuring sustainable development and improving the welfare of peoples, globalization could also have tangible negative consequences for States with economies in transition and for developing countries. In this regard, I would like to underline that the United Nations must make fuller use of its capacities, as well as those of its specialized agencies, to assist States in anticipating and ensuring the early prevention of the possible negative consequences of globalization and the increasing interdependency of States. The United Nations is called upon to continue to play a key and effective role in strengthening international economic cooperation and advising States on all major issues of global development. Azerbaijan is making its own contribution to the development of the process of globalization. Located at the point where Europe and Asia meet, with a diversified economy and rich in natural resources, including hydrocarbons, my country serves as an effective link in the development of East-West and North-South cooperation. Azerbaijan is actively participating in projects for the development and transportation to international markets of the hydrocarbon resources of the Caspian Sea, as well as in the project to restore the Great Silk Road, all of which are of global importance. 5 Azerbaijan, together with a number of the Great Silk Road countries, is currently working on a new landmark project, SILKSAT, to provide the countries of the Great Silk Road with a global satellite telecommunications system, in addition to existing communication lines. These projects are crucial to enhancing trade and industrial ties among the participating countries, developing their economies and making them interactive and strengthening their integration into the global world economy. However, external threats, internal problems, outside pressures and involvement in the struggle for spheres of influence are depriving these young and fragile democracies of the opportunity freely to carry out policies that would respond to the interests and expectations of their people, to strengthen and improve their statehood and to engage in peaceful development. Since their very inception, they have been forced to fight a difficult battle for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. As the victims of aggression, seizure of their territory, “ethnic cleansing”, aggressive separatism and terrorism, these States rightly expect the United Nations to take the most effective action to create a just and secure world and to protect the principles of the United Nations Charter. Unfortunately, the southern Caucasus has become a region where all of these problems, threats and risks have their explicit manifestation. The main destabilizing factor of the situation in the southern Caucasus has been the aggression of Armenia against Azerbaijan, which has brought incalculable tragedy to millions of people. As a result of the aggression, Armenian armed forces have occupied 20 per cent of the territory of Azerbaijan, carried out “ethnic cleansing” and ousted 1 million Azerbaijanis from their homes. In this connection, the United Nations Security Council adopted four resolutions which unequivocally reconfirmed the sovereignty, territorial integrity and inviolability of the borders of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and called for the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Armenian armed forces from all of the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. However, from 1993 to date, those Security Council resolutions have remained a dead letter. Since 1992, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has been engaged in brokering a settlement of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, but its activities have not been successful. Bilateral discussions between the Presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia are continuing, but they, too, have failed to produce results. The two countries have observed a ceasefire for the last six years, but it is not a solution to the problem. We call on the United Nations to take all necessary measures to implement the Security Council resolutions. Peace and security in the region cannot be achieved without a settlement of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, as well as other regional conflicts, and the removal of external pressure, including foreign military presence. Bringing political integrity and neutrality to the southern Caucasus would make possible the establishment of a normal relationship among the States of the region and ensure their harmonious integration into the world economic system. We would like to express our gratitude to the organizations of the United Nations system and to donor countries for their assistance to Azerbaijani refugees and displaced persons, who have been living in great distress for over eight years. Of critical importance to us is the continuation of and increase in the humanitarian assistance being provided to them until they can return to their homes. The United Nations is the key forum for coordinating inter-State relations. The need to make significant efforts to enhance the Organization's effectiveness is not in doubt. In recent years, under the leadership of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, a serious evaluation of the resources and capacities of the United Nations, as well as of the Organization's activities in the post-cold-war decade, has been made. We had never before heard such self-criticism as that expressed in the reports on tragedies in Srebrenica, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Rwanda. In this general context, we commend and support the Secretary- General's efforts to reform the United Nations. The United Nations bears great responsibility for the fate of the world, and we place our hopes in it. Serious and rational reforms should increase the effectiveness of the Organization and, first and foremost, of the Security Council. Given the Council's special significance, the question of adopting reform decisions by two thirds of the Member States has been 6 affirmed by a consensus resolution of the General Assembly. Azerbaijan fully supports such an approach. We also believe that the representation of the States of Asia, Africa and Latin America in the Security Council should be in keeping with modern political realities. We have already expressed, and today we reconfirm, our support for the election of Germany and Japan as permanent members of the Security Council. At the same time, I would like to point out that one additional non-permanent seat should be allocated to the Group of Eastern European States because of the unprecedented doubling in the membership of the Group. Otherwise, each country of the Eastern European Group could only be elected a non-permanent member of the Council once every 38 years. We have studied with great interest the Brahimi report on strengthening United Nations peacekeeping capacities. We would not like the ideas and recommendations contained in that remarkable report to remain a dead letter. We also hope that the International Criminal Court will become an effective organ to bring to justice, on behalf of the international community, those who have committed war crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity and the crime of aggression. Should the Court become hostage to the interests of various groups of States and to the practice of double standards rather than being guided by international legal norms equal for all, perpetrators will go unpunished. Azerbaijan is interested in taking an active part in combating international terrorism, organized crime and illegal drug trafficking. The fight against those problems, which are growing in scale, can be effective only with the concerted efforts of all countries at both the regional and the global levels. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to a proposal made by the group of States that includes Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Moldova (GUUAM) on the establishment of an international anti-terrorism centre. Speaking of GUUAM in a wider context, I would like to stress that the meeting of the GUUAM heads of State during the Millennium Summit could be characterized as a landmark in the history of the group. The New York memorandum adopted at the meeting confirms the orientation of the GUUAM States towards further developing mutually beneficial and multifaceted cooperation in various spheres. There is yet another urgent issue whose resolution cannot be postponed. I am speaking of the difficult financial situation of our Organization that has arisen as a result of delays by Member States in making their contributions to the regular and peacekeeping budgets. Member States should fulfil their financial obligations to the Organization in full, on time and without any conditions. At the same time, our delegation believes that the time has come to reconsider the current scale of assessments for both the regular and the peacekeeping budgets. We are ready to cooperate constructively with other delegations on this matter. We believe that the principle of a State's capacity to pay should be the basis for the future reform of the scale of assessments. Our Organization is designed to play a leading role in overcoming obstacles to global peace and progress. I would like to underscore our collective responsibility for peace and security on our planet, and to express my confidence that the results of the Millennium Summit and the entire fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly will become a reliable basis for achieving a more stable and peaceful twenty-first century.  I am delighted to extend to Mr. Harri Holkeri, the new 25 President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session, my sincere congratulations on his election. I warmly welcome Tuvalu, the latest newcomer to the United Nations family. I cannot continue without expressing my sincere appreciation to our dedicated Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, under whose leadership the winds of change keep on blowing. I hail the results of the Millennium Summit. The views expressed by leaders from all over the world have shown how crucial it is, at this point in history, to reshape our Organization so as to respond adequately to the great challenges of our times. From this rostrum, and in other forums, political leaders have endeavoured to describe their perceptions, expectations and concerns with regard to the all- encompassing manifestations of globalization. Last year, my predecessor stated that the United Nations was all about institutionalized solidarity. Bearing this idea in mind, we are convinced that the United Nations should reshape its role in such a way as to manage globalization in the interest of all nations and to correct its excesses. Globalization creates opportunities for commercial, economic and financial expansion. However, improved technological competitiveness and wider economic freedom do not automatically produce greater equity. The contribution of globalization to the betterment of the human condition will remain limited to a small number of individuals, social categories and countries unless it is oriented towards the common good. This implies that, in the new context of integration and participation in the globalization processes, good governance should intelligently and predictably combine economic reforms with social responsibility, adjust the system of education and professional training, and initiate institutional reforms that are able to achieve long-term internal stability and employment, individual security and social justice, and the protection of national economic interests, resources and the environment. The process of globalization creates a new balance of power between States, non-governmental organizations and transnational corporations. What is in question today is how to use their potential in order to influence the course of globalization so that it can have a much more positive impact on people's lives. This means bringing globalization closer to the people by promoting human values and democratic principles and practices; an open, inclusive and pluralistic political culture; economies that sustain a decent life for all citizens and prosperity for societies as a whole; and institutions that protect both individuals, with all their rights and fundamental freedoms, and the common good. Nothing can really benefit the citizens of a country if, at the same time, it prejudices the prevailing international standards of a democratic world. (spoke in French) We need to pool our efforts in order to enlarge the system of values shared by the international community. In this globalized yet conflictual world, the manifestation of solidarity can provide a sound basis for progress and prosperity for individuals and nations. From this perspective, I am convinced that solidarity in the creation and allocation of educational capital is essential for the access of young people to the opportunities for progress engendered by globalization. I strongly support better access for young people to the new technologies based on information and communication through investments in informatics education, based on firm partnerships among Governments, business communities and non- governmental organizations. In coping with the new informatics reality of globalization, good governance has to act with vision, responsibility and solidarity. Access to educational capital in computer sciences should not create new demarcation lines across the planet, but rather should unite the world, primarily young people, by providing new opportunities for progress, communication and professional success. Access to digital education will also mean civic emancipation, greater transparency and less corruption. The first key word — solidarity — that I have tried to illustrate should be accompanied by a second: responsibility. For the United Nations as a whole and for its Member States, responsibility is another way to react to the forces of globalization, both domestically and internationally. That is why Romania welcomes the set of priorities and recommendations formulated by the Secretary-General in his report to the Millennium Assembly. Member States know that responsibility requires them to give the Organization — in what I would call a 26 “peace ritual” — the political support and concrete means necessary to improve the management of globalization and to fulfil its mandate. This role is not an easy one. In an era of the most advanced technological capabilities, poverty continues to be a painful reality. While there is increasing acceptance of the universality of human rights, innocent people continue to fall victim to inter-ethnic wars. In fighting terrorism, drug trafficking and organized crime, States find that the perpetrators are as well-armed as their police forces. The lack of determination or promptness in preventing the degradation of the environment endangers life on our planet. The United Nations must strive to give globalization a human face. Within our own Organization, responsibility also means that we have to strengthen the authority of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security; pursue the process of reforming the Security Council, once we have agreed that an increase in its membership is justified; be more effective in assisting Member States to cope with their serious economic and social problems; and enhance the Organization's capacity to mount and deploy peace missions on a timely basis. In recent years, we have witnessed the increasing role of non-governmental organizations and other non- state actors, in particular the powerful transnational corporations. There is a need for them to assume increased responsibility as well. Non-governmental organizations should be prepared to mobilize more effectively the resources of civil society in the service of the public well-being. As for the transnational corporations, we are aware of their role in stimulating the forces of globalization and also in reaping its fruit. It is only fair for them to assume responsibilities beyond the borders of their profit. There is a long way to go, so it is high time to set out in this particular direction. The Global Compact initiative launched by the Secretary-General should be built upon. In Romania, we have already explored its potential and the results are promising. We believe, indeed, that the business community can enhance support and enact a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. After all, profit is meaningless if it does not lead to the improvement of the human condition for all. (spoke in English) We believe that all Member States, including Romania, can assume a share of the collective responsibility. Indeed, my country is doing its best to make its own contribution to the goals and purposes of the United Nations. First, Romania is party to the majority of the key multilateral treaties and conventions identified as such by the Secretary- General in the context of the Millennium Summit. Secondly, we submitted a valuable resolution, entitled “Promoting and consolidating democracy”, that was adopted by the Commission on Human Rights on 25 April this year. Encouraged by its success, we will invite the General Assembly to adopt this resolution at the current session. We are convinced that all members of the General Assembly are prepared to reiterate their recognition of the values, principles and practices that give meaning to a democratic society. Thirdly, Romania is a strong supporter of the United Nations role in peacekeeping. Our peacekeepers have served in various places where we had no specific national interest other than maintaining peace on behalf of the world and of the innocent people who make up the majority of victims of conflicts and disputes. We have worked hard to diversify our contribution to peacekeeping. Romania is also proud to be part of the first Multinational Stand-by Forces High-Readiness Brigade. That is a clear way of expressing support for enhancing the United Nations capacity to deploy peacekeepers rapidly and effectively. In the same context, we welcome the work of the Panel on United Nations peace operations, which has provided a convincing outline for an important reform of this particular function. Fourthly, we also believe that the time has come for us to try to review the peacekeeping scale of assessments. As a concrete contribution to this effort, I take this opportunity to announce that Romania is willing to gradually move from Group C to Group B of the assessment mechanism for peacekeeping. We appeal to all Member countries to work together to put an end to the current financial crisis. Fifthly, in the same vein, let me emphasize that Romania has increased its voluntary contribution to the United Nations Development Programme's work in our country. This is one way of reiterating our support for and interest in the operational activities of the United Nations. 27 We have always supported creative and efficient forms of cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations. I am pleased to announce to this audience that Romania is preparing to take over the high responsibility of the chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) in 2001. We will work hard to make OSCE a more instrumental organization, based upon a specific commitment to improving the life of the citizens of its 54 participating States. At the same time, we will use to its best the potential for dialogue and cooperation between OSCE and the United Nations in conflict- prevention and crisis management, in strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law, in fighting corruption and in other realms of common interest. Having said this, I would make a plea to Member States to integrate the two essential ingredients for effective action, namely solidarity and responsibility, into the concept of total diplomacy. This means the systematic use of firm and efficient diplomacy that should be called upon before any dangerous tensions burst into conflict. It also means that we should give absolute priority to diplomacy, prevention and containment, and in all circumstances use them extensively and comprehensively for the pacific settlements of disputes. All of the means provided for in Chapter VI of the Charter and others that might be created through our collective effort of imagination should reinforce the Organization's capacity to cope with threats and conflicts, whether predictable or unpredictable. Recent developments in longstanding conflicts and disputes confirm that at the end of any road paved with a heavy toll in human lives, material destruction and distorted mentalities, one can find a negotiating table. Diplomacy, if used up to the point of exhaustion, can eventually prove decisive, provided all the possibilities of statesmen, professional negotiators, public opinion and civil society are comprehensively mobilized. Intense dialogue, diplomacy and flexibility from all parties are still needed in critical points of the world, such as Kosovo. Resolution 1244 (1999) of the Security Council is a remarkable innovation, which combines the specific capabilities of the United Nations and some prominent regional organizations such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe. Let us work together, guided by resolution 1244, to use the diplomatic and material potential of these organizations with full positive impact on all the inhabitants of this province, irrespective of ethnic background or religion. I address the same appeal to responsibility to the parties involved in the Transdneister tension problem, with the hope that the commitments assumed during the OSCE Summit in Istanbul will be respected, so that next year we will see concrete measures in the withdrawal of military troops and arms from this part of the Republic of Moldova. We are aware that there are many complex and unsolved situations for which energetic enforcement is needed. We are ready to participate in a profound and responsible debate on humanitarian intervention. We would join other delegations in taking a fresh look at the use of sanctions and seeing how effective they are with respect to their target and what are the consequences on the innocent civilian population or third countries. Among the possible consequences, it is worth mentioning the irrational retaliation reactions from countries concerned. A case in point is the perpetuation of the blocking of the Danube — the blocking of navigation on the Danube — which makes all the riparian countries suffer. Procrastination, resisting the lifting of the blockade on the Danube under various pretexts defies international law and ignores the economic interests in the region. Every day, shipping companies accumulate huge losses, which add to the already heavy burden on the third countries in the area, accumulated during the years of the Yugoslav crisis. Speaking of the situation in the Balkans in general, we have to say that we are far from having reached complete stability. We are still witnessing confrontation between the forces of integration and those of dissolution. Time has come to get rid of the ghosts of intolerance and hatred and open the door to the fresh air of the European spirit of integration. The results of the actions by the inflexible regime in Belgrade can be clearly seen today. Unfortunately, our neighbours are forced to cope with a destroyed and isolated economy and an unpredictable political situation in a Yugoslav State once viable and respected, yet finding itself, today, in a process of dismantlement. Politics should be judged by its results, and not by its intentions. We strongly wish for Yugoslavia to return to the European mainstream, for which it must re-embrace 28 the values of democracy, tolerance and freedom of expression. The historic conflict in the Middle East is not over yet, but it is diplomacy that still gives us hope for a solution. I applaud the recent efforts made by the Israeli and Palestinian leaders to come closer to a final settlement. This year we have also heard good news from the Korean Peninsula, a part of the world where history separated one people into two hostile parts. Romania is happy to see a fresh wave of diplomatic actions and human contacts that open new windows for an era of which the Korean people would be the first beneficiary. For us it is obvious that total diplomacy can be successful if it is constantly and solidly based on human realities and on the fundamental aspiration of ordinary people to a peaceful and decent life. With the current, unprecedented level of knowledge we have reached, I am confident that we can find, in ourselves and our societies, resources for greater tolerance, mutual respect and dialogue, as opposed to the primitive inclination to hatred, intolerance and aggression. It is incumbent to the United Nations, as the only international organization of universal vocation, to identify new resources for our concerted endeavours to find solutions to problems of global concern. I am glad to see that our position coincides in many respects with the major ideas agreed upon by participants in the Summit. The United Nations should stubbornly keep working to renew its profile and vigour while entering the new millennium. Romania will continue to be ready to add its contribution to that effect.Humanity, our greatest concern, is the reason why we are gathered here today. Humanity stands at a defining moment in world history. The challenge before us is to harness the collective consciousness and will of the international community to address the problems of planet Earth. During the course of the past century, the disparities between and within nations have widened. Poverty, ill-health, illiteracy and hunger among the world's people have increased. The world's ecosystem, the foundation upon which we all depend for survival, is rapidly deteriorating. That is why we must regard this moment as significant in human history, despite Fukuyama's claim that history has ended. The Third Millennium offers us the opportunity to break away from the shackles of the past and create new beginnings. The choices that we make can change the face of humankind and lead to the accepted goals of global peace, economic and human security and the greater good of humanity. The past century was replete with examples of nations preening themselves for conquest and domination. The conquistadors who plundered the New World are still at large, using global institutions, new technologies and weapons of destruction to oppress and dominate the weak, the innocent and the dispossessed sectors of mankind. The message that Saint Lucia brings to this Millennium Assembly comes from the pen of Saint Lucia's Nobel Prize Laureate Derek Walcott, who reminds us that, “There are no worlds to conquer/But worlds to re-create”. Minds that are historically poisoned with conquest can hardly experience the essential equanimity and calm of re-creation. The theme of this millennium Assembly reaches out in the direction of re-creation: a people-centred reshaping of the role and function of the United Nations and a purposeful moral thrust in re-creating the battered, demoralized societies in which we live. 8 That is why we must embrace the United Nations Millennium Summit's theme, “We the peoples: The Role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. The attainment of meaningful transformation in the world system calls for a United Nations capable of assuming a vanguard role in development and in advancing human society and security. The United Nations system must play a critical role in promoting global responsibility. Global responsibility implicitly involves some form of moral commitment to human welfare. It is the formulation of economic programmes designed to bring about economic redistribution, to safeguard against economic crises and to formulate developmental policies that are in keeping with environmental protection and sustainability. The United Nations should be strengthened to play a more central role in development, ensuring equity and security for its small, vulnerable Members like Saint Lucia against the greed of profit-driven Powers. Instead, we are witnessing a consistent, systemic weakening of the United Nations' role in development, with development issues being left to undemocratic institutions like the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organization (WTO), which perpetuate global economic inequities and ignore the development issues and concerns of developing countries. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations' primary development agency, is now reoriented to giving advice in governance and democratic elections. The United Nations therefore plays a peripheral role in development, and small States like Saint Lucia are left on their own to be devoured by powerful States backed by powerful transnational corporations. Saint Lucia joined this Organization and entrusted it with our hopes of peace, security and development. This Organization has passed on our trust to a few dominant Powers and corporations. If the United Nations has a diminished role in ensuring development, peace and security for its small and vulnerable Members, then our presence here is an unnecessary diversion of our scarce resources. In these circumstances we feel threatened and vulnerable that our trust has been betrayed. The greater good of human security cannot be fostered simply through peacekeeping operations and humanitarian missions. There must be a global drive to empower people, through the elimination of the adverse conditions that cause the incapacitation of the human spirit and the imprisonment of the imagination. Hence, the United Nations of the twenty-first century must be capable of playing a significant role in liberating the human spirit and imagination through education and real opportunity. It must be able to reposition itself to give practical meaning to the rising tide all over the world as the common man aspires to higher and wider horizons. In reaffirming our faith in the United Nations and its Charter, it is again with the hope of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war. The threat to peace does not necessarily emanate from military warfare. There are new forms of war currently being waged on the small, the weak and the vulnerable. In previous addresses to this Assembly, and in the statement of our Head of Government to the Millennium Summit, we pointed out the injustice perpetrated on Saint Lucia and other banana-producing countries of the Caribbean by the WTO, through its rejection of the marketing regime for bananas in Europe as being WTO-incompatible. That ruling has condemned our countries to the prospect of economic ruin, in that the stabilizing force of our economy has been dealt a mortal blow. Since that ruling by the WTO, which granted an unreasonably limited time to adjust our economy, we have lost 50 per cent of our foreign exchange earnings, while thousands of farmers have become unemployed and poverty and crime are on the increase. Yet, despite our urgent economic situation, negotiations between the European Union (EU) and the United States have been stalled. Saint Lucia calls on the United States to resume discussions with the European Union on a new marketing system for bananas that could be acceptable to all, giving due consideration to the Caribbean proposal. But that is a pipedream. Our hopes have slipped on a banana skin, because there is a new sweetheart deal between Britain and the United States. Resilient a people as we are, we are moving to diversify our economies and to build another sector — financial services. Again, the economic giants are determined to crush our development efforts and subject our people to poverty by attacking yet another sector of our narrow economic base. Saint Lucia has acted in good faith in fulfilling our obligations to the Charter of the United Nations, 9 assuming equality of all Member States. We have respected the territorial integrity and political independence of other Member States and have never interfered in the internal affairs of another State. Today, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has chosen to dictate the tax policies of Saint Lucia and other Caribbean islands by labelling our tax regime as a harmful tax haven and is threatening to impose sanctions for non-compliance with its prescribed changes to our tax policies. It is Saint Lucia's sovereign right to determine its taxes. We cannot tell the OECD countries what taxes to impose, nor do we expect interference in the exercise of the sacred right entrusted to us by our citizens. Our development options are few and limited, and we consider the OECD action a violation of our basic human right to development and to pursue a decent standard of living for our people. Our peace is threatened, our democracy is being undermined. The conditions for conflict are being created in my country and in the region, and yet, instead of addressing development, we are being asked to strengthen the United Nations to intervene in national crises. Within the context of a globalized world, the concept of sovereignty is fast becoming an endangered species. No self-respecting nation would willingly abandon its sovereignty for the illusion of a better world, when all the signals from this brave new world are destructive and negative. In respect of peacekeeping interventions, one can surrender sovereignty to avoid a holocaust but certainly not to permit well-heeled rapacious countries to hog the capital flows in the financial services sector. Last week, through our Heads of State and Government, we reaffirmed our faith in the United Nations and its Charter as indispensable foundations for a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. This reaffirmation is of particular significance to small developing States like Saint Lucia, lacking the size and resources to urge the international community to give due consideration to our concerns and interests. We agreed to entrust the United Nations with ensuring equality among States. It is of paramount importance to us that the United Nations does not flinch in its role of fostering international dialogue and consensus building, so that the concerns and interests of all Member States are adequately addressed and reflected in the work of the Organization. We do not expect our trust to be given to more powerful influences to determine our collective future. We rededicated ourselves to upholding the principle of equality of States and expect that equality to be realized in policy directives of the United Nations with a balance in representation of the interests of Member States and regions. Saint Lucia calls on the United Nations to assume its rightful, central role in development and the governance of globalization, to promote democracy and good government nationally and internationally, to stand for right and the protection of its weak and vulnerable Members against the powerful and dominant and to seek equality and justice for all. This should be the focus of the United Nations in the new millennium if poverty is to be eradicated and peace enjoyed. Saint Lucia cannot be enthusiastic about other issues until development and equity in the global economy become a priority. Our decline in revenues denies us the capacity to increase our contribution to peacekeeping, and we will be reluctant to do so until there is an increase in our participation and benefit from the global economy. Man cannot live by governance alone or peace alone. Our people must find the sustenance that will enable them to participate in governance and peace. Saint Lucia therefore eagerly looks forward to the convening of the intergovernmental conference on financing for development to discuss in a holistic manner issues of trade, finance and monetary matters in the context of globalization and trade liberalization. We have always promoted an integrated approach to development and global issues, and this age of technology and interdependence lends itself more than ever to the integrated approach of assessing and addressing the issues at hand. We continue to view the financing for development process as the missing and the critical link in the development agenda for a sustainable and lasting resolution to poverty and threats to peace. We hope that through this process the United Nations will reclaim its legitimate role in development, entrusted to 10 it in the Charter, and promote the effective participation of all its Member States in the governance of the global economy and globalization, for the benefit of all the peoples of the world. The greatest threat to world peace and democracy is the systemic imbalances and inequities in the global economy and the institutions that govern it. This situation is unsustainable and explosive. The thrust of many statements made during the Millennium Summit and this session has been to strengthen peacekeeping efforts with resources and personnel. We recognize that there is need for improvement in peacekeeping efforts to make them more effective. However, equal emphasis and effort are not being committed to addressing the real threats to peace and the primary causes of war. Developing countries are threatened by continued deprivation and inequities in the global economy. Unless these inequities and imbalances are corrected, we will continue to create situations of unrest and threaten intervention while causes go unaddressed. Similarly, we parade the fashionable notion of poverty eradication in isolation, ignoring the complex, multi-faceted nature of poverty and the causes of poverty, including global economic inequities. This façade to placate the poorest is fooling some of the people, but not all of the world's poor. The holistic nature of development takes precedence over the palliative of poverty eradication. International cooperation in development should instead be demonstrated through meeting the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product in overseas development assistance, through debt cancellation, special and differential treatment on a contractual basis for developing countries and adequate financial support for the United Nations' development programmes. We have reaffirmed our commitment to promoting democracy, albeit with the emphasis on democracy at the national level. The inherent problem in achieving this objective is clear, since democracy at the national level is undermined by the lack of a commensurate level of democracy at the international level. The world's peoples and leaders will rightly mock the call for democracy if this principle is not equally applied in the Security Council, the Bretton Woods Institutions and the World Trade Organization, the main institutions that currently govern world affairs in peace, security and the world economy, respectively. The United Nations must demonstrate leadership of democracy at the global level if we are to believe in this principle as a foundation for peace and prosperity in the new millennium. All Member States must be able effectively to participate in matters of peace, security and the global economy in order to give real meaning to democracy and governance. The symbolism of the United Nations is universally recognized, but our role in this millennium is to redefine its goals, sharpen its focus and make it a more efficient instrument for effecting global change and development. But this institutional change must be inspired and fired by the commensurate determination of Member nations to re-create their own societies. The resonance and sympathetic vibration of our visionary Secretary-General Kofi Annan is not enough. We as Member nations must set about the task of societal re- creation, within the parameters of our own societies, to offset the negative influence of moral degradation, crime, drugs and anti-social behaviour. These are the benchmarks of the uncivil society. In the re-creation of our own societies we face the structural disadvantages of unemployment, illiteracy and the tyranny of consumerism and materialism. Our young people are cannon-fodder for the blandishments of cable television. They lap up a culture and a lifestyle that militate against their own self-development. They fail to understand the nexus between earning and spending and develop an appetite for consumer durables which their economic base could never support. They become aggressively fired-up with demands and rising expectations that neither the resources of the State nor their flimsy work ethic can entertain. They develop a culture of carping criticism that leaves no space for a culture of appreciation. Caribbean Governments look on almost helplessly at a growing phenomenon that threatens to disturb the rhythm of projected economic growth and breeds a kind of lawlessness which conventional law-and-order techniques cannot contain. As globalization erodes the economic and social bases of our islands, international and bilateral aid dwindles. As ideologies and ideals give way to pragmatism, the weak social and political fabric of these fledgling nations is laid bare. The vocabulary of containment and patience can no longer hold back the anarchist tide of popular revolt. Small nations will encounter their own Seattles, with no National Guardsmen to come to the rescue, no sustaining philosophies to stem the tide, only the grim statistics of falling revenues and rising expectations. Nations which attempt to grapple with these social problems have incurred the wrath of large countries, culminating in isolation and the imposition of sanctions. Countries like Cuba and Libya have felt the crush of sanctions. The United Nations system must rethink the strategy of imposing sanctions and must devise other means of ensuring compliance within the international community. The imposition of sanctions is often inhumane and is usually accompanied by devastating economic consequences and fails to produce the desired effect in targeted countries. The international community should realize that interventions, embargoes and sanctions do not a democracy make. Because of the untold suffering inflicted on civilian populations, a twenty-first century United Nations system cannot continue to endorse the imposition of sanctions. What is even more devastating is that the general will of this Assembly is often flouted and ignored when the international consensus calls for a removal of sanctions. Is democracy merely a convenient attitude? If so, it begs the question as to the insistence that countries like Cuba should conform to the principles of democracy when these principles themselves are being compromised and rejected as a matter of convenience. It is these injustices and violations that have turned world opinion in favour of the embattled Caribbean country Cuba and have made its leader Fidel Castro a living symbol of the unconquerable spirit of our people to triumph over adversity and incredible odds. More than ever, the positives of a reformed United Nations will become a refuge, a bastion of hope for nations nonplussed by events that seem suddenly out of their control. In my previous address to this time-honoured institution, I alluded to the plight of Africa. I should like to reiterate that as Africa was the last impression of the twentieth century, poetic justice demands that it must be our first preoccupation in the twenty-first century. In the process of re-creation, Saint Lucia and the Caribbean must strive to become a catalyst for peace in the international forum. We must use our collective influence to contain the border disputes that threaten to create friction in Latin America and the Caribbean. We must also be wary of importing conflicts into our region. In the case of Taiwan and China, it is vital that we pursue the line of working towards a one-China policy instead of fuelling the hostilities that characterize the existing relationship between these two countries. An early resolution of the impasse between Taiwan and China will strengthen the solidarity of the developing world. In the case of Africa, the Caribbean has always enjoyed a peculiarly symbiotic relationship with Africa. Men like Padmore, C.L.R. James, Eric Williams, Sir Arthur Lewis and Walter Rodney have all worked assiduously at the side of African leaders like Nkrumah, Nyerere, Sékou Touré and Léopold Senghor in order to realize the ultimate dream of a united Africa liberated from the bondage of poverty, disease and exploitation. This noble tradition must continue. Once again, Saint Lucia calls on its CARICOM colleagues to pursue the possibility of obtaining observer status at the Organisation of African Unity. The peoples of the African continent face the onslaught of the AIDS pandemic that threatens to decimate the population of the entire continent. But the devastating effect of AIDS is felt not only on the African continent. Today the world is confronted with the greatest health crisis in human history. The effects of this disease can destabilize fragile democracies and economic progress in both the developing and the developed world. We welcome President Clinton's efforts to create an African AIDS Trust Fund and the pledge of one billion US dollars to combat AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa. We also welcome Cuba's undertaking to send three thousand Cuban doctors to Africa. However, given the transnational nature of the disease, the United Nations should use its institutions to launch a movement aimed at the complete eradication of this scourge. If the world is to survive the ravages of this plague, we must not only pledge financial resources towards research and the development of pharmaceuticals, but we must make those pharmaceuticals affordable and accessible and also continue to sensitize the international community to preventive measures. At year's end, the General Assembly will witness the end of the first International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism. Much remains to be done 12 before the United Nations is successful in carrying out its statutory mandate to ensure complete and absolute political equality for the peoples of the relevant territories. This must remain the guiding principle of the international community. That the majority of the remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories are small islands does not mean that the self-determination of their peoples is less important than for former territories which achieved sovereign status. We must resist all attempts to legitimize the present unequal colonial arrangements, which do not provide for full and absolute political equality. Saint Lucia therefore fully endorses the proclaiming of a second Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism and calls on Member States and United Nations organizations to fulfil their responsibilities under the Charter and relevant General Assembly resolutions. On the initiative of the Government of Canada, a debate has started in the forum of the Organization of American States on the subject of global human security. It is comforting for developing States, and especially small developing States, to feel that the conscience of the international world has been pricked into focusing on the security of the entire globe — the entire globe. On a discordant note, the United States of America is now concentrating its attention on a national missile defence system aimed at protecting the United States from missile attacks. At this strategic juncture in the new millennium, when world leaders are gingerly nurturing a culture of peace and disarmament, this action runs counter to the mood for reconciliation and universal nuclear disarmament. This unfortunate and myopic emphasis on the protection of one nation and one people might well trigger a rash of self-protective nuclear explosions, effectively eroding the fragile trust which underpins the hope for global human security. There are no worlds to conquer, but worlds to recreate. The recreation of the United Nations must be posited on the basis of mutual respect between rich and poor, mutual respect between large and small nations. As small and desperate as our islands appear to be, we should hold fast to the principles that inform the operations of the United Nations. We challenge the paradigm shift which the developed nations are cleverly manipulating to shunt the focus of the United Nations towards peacekeeping and humanitarian assistance. Saint Lucia states clearly and unequivocally that the United Nations focus should zero in on development as a radical instrument for eradicating poverty and war. No $600 million carrot will tempt us to abandon the principle of a nation's capacity to pay. No Congress should determine the scale of assessments for the United Nations, and there should be no conditionality for paying arrears and meeting one's obligations to this Organization. The hungry sheep look up and are not fed. The wolves run amok and batten on their hunger, and the cycle goes on in its impropriety. This Organization must not flinch in its millennial resolve to end the carnage. “So I come to you from the weary battlefield of time Armed with the disappointments of yesterday The sufferings of today and the dreams of tomorrow In the struggle I may die But let's not forsake another tomorrow”. My delegation greets and congratulates you, Sir, for presiding over the deliberations of the fifty-fifth session of the United Nations General Assembly — the Millennium Assembly. We pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the distinguished Foreign Minister of Namibia, for his effective and dynamic conduct of the fifty-fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly, including the preparations for the Millennium Summit and the President's Report. Congratulations are also extended to our distinguished Secretary-General, who with great vision conceptualized the Millennium Summit, the execution of which was a great triumph for the United Nations. A hearty welcome is extended to the small sovereign State of Tuvalu, as it joins the family of nations. The Millennium Summit and this fifty-fifth session of the United Nations General Assembly are historic events that provide a unique opportunity to view humanity's progress and face the challenges before us. Indeed, the Summit Declaration sets out a global vision for the twenty-first century. My delegation welcomes the inclusion of commitments to fight poverty, disease, ignorance, injustice, violence and degradation of the environment, among others. In the matter of poverty and disease, the United Nations must address the inequalities that exist around the world. In this twenty-first century, more than 1.2 billion people live on less than one dollar a day. Millions of children and the elderly go to bed hungry. Disease and sickness wreak havoc on the lives of children, men and women. Today the HIV/AIDS pandemic cuts short the lives of millions of people who could be making useful and productive contributions to our world. Trade is vital to the livelihood of Grenadians. For the banana-exporting countries of the Caribbean subregion, which includes Grenada, the export of bananas accounts for a significant percentage of foreign exchange. However, our economies are threatened by the callous ruling of the World Trade Organization (WTO) against the European Union banana regime of assistance to our small growers. Our struggling farmers, with limited acreage, find it difficult, if not impossible, to compete with a transnational corporation. Our farmers need an adjustment period in order to effect the requisite structural changes needed by the new trade regime. We look to the United Nations to call upon the WTO to take into consideration the special structural problems faced by the small banana producers of the Caribbean. 2 We call for corporate responsibility. We appeal for measures to encourage the sustainability of small economies and economies in transition. We urge a more equitable global partnership. You may recall that the Heads of State and Government, including the Prime Minister of Grenada, stressed recently in this very hall the urgency of releasing poor developing countries from their debt burden. The leaders expressed an interest in finding new approaches and new thinking with respect to this problem. A solution should be vigorously pursued with deliberate speed. Debt forgiveness is not a financial loss to the global economy. Rather, it provides an opportunity for stimulation in the depressed and stagnant parts of the world's economy. Investing the dividends realized by debt forgiveness in the economy of the debtor developing countries — especially the least developed and those with economies in transition — would be a major investment in global development. Another area that needs urgent and immediate assistance from the international community is that of natural disasters. The costly restoration of infrastructure and rehabilitation of the productive sectors, especially agriculture and tourism, and the high cost of recovering and rebuilding make the attainment of sustainable development a monumental task. My delegation calls upon the United Nations and its agencies, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other international agencies, as well as the private and public sectors in global partnership, including the Global Compact, to contribute to a wellstructured disaster relief fund, a relief fund that can respond quickly and effectively. A large percentage of the needs of the developing countries in the Caribbean subregion and elsewhere can be met. We look forward to positive developments envisaged from globalization, trade liberalization, information technology and sustainable development. These and other well-conceived programmes must be seriously pursued. Lip service is not enough. As the Secretary-General noted in his report to the fifty-fifth General Assembly on the work of the Organization: “To some, globalization is imbued with great promise; to others, it appears deeply threatening.” (A/55/1, para. 13) The international community must help to ensure that the have-nots are on board this fast-moving train of globalization. All Member States need to share in the opportunities provided by globalization. This would act as a vehicle for international peace and economic security. Removing some of the barriers to trade and capital flow are prerequisites to successful reduction of poverty and disease in the developing countries. This can be mutually beneficial to developed and developing countries. Trade has been the engine of economic growth and development from the days of bartering to the present day of e-commerce and globalization. We therefore regard the unilateral interference in our offshore services sector as an attempt to hinder our trade in services and our role in the global economy. In that connection, my delegation recalls the words of my Prime Minister about the unfair charges levelled against our offshore financial-services sector. “A cartel of high-tax nations, comprising the richest and most powerful countries, has launched a destructive and high-powered attack on our country, accusing us of anti-competitive tax practices. Threats, imperialistic pressures and abuse of power in multilateral organizations are being used to force many small States, including Grenada, to give up our fiscal sovereignty. They have used adverse publicity techniques deliberately to condemn and harm our economies. They have threatened various sanctions, sought to block access to capital funds in multinational organizations and to impose financial protectionism and total ostracism.” That is fiscal imperialism. It tramples on the principle of sovereign equality. It is contrary to international law, and it undermines freedom of competition, global investment and trade liberalization. The role of education in poverty alleviation, in the application of science and technology and in the vast area of information sharing and communications is vital. The Government of Grenada, recognizing the social, cultural and economic potential of education, is investing an increasing proportion of its limited resources to prepare its people to participate in, and benefit from, the information and technology revolution. Towards that end, the Government of 3 Grenada is seeking the assistance of the United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and agencies and donors of goodwill to establish a new programme of distance learning by means of global computer interconnectivity. Grenada attaches great importance to the convening in 2001 of the United Nations High-level Intergovernmental Event on Financing for Development. My delegation welcomes the attempt to address monetary, trade and financial issues in a holistic manner and in the context of globalization and sustainable development. The international community should not miss this opportunity to focus attention and resources on the pursuit of development, peace and stability. And here, my delegation reaffirms that the root cause of conflict within nations and among nations can be found in some of the injustice done to the weaker members of the international community by the stronger ones. Unless the basics of life — food, clothing, shelter, health and employment — are attained, human rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will be meaningless to those who suffer such extreme deprivations. This is especially so in the context of economic, social and cultural rights, which are downplayed in favour of civil and political rights. Since all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated, attention to the full range of rights will contribute better to the observance and enjoyment of this noble goal. I join my Prime Minister in paying tribute to, and publicly thanking, the Government and the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan for the assistance given to Grenada with respect to agriculture, marine resources, education, health, culture and infrastructure. The friendship and sincerity of the Republic of China on Taiwan have been a source of strength and endurance for our two countries. 1t is in this spirit that Grenada calls once more for the return of the Republic of China on Taiwan to full membership of the United Nations. A people that diligently works to achieve such high levels of human and technological development and a people that makes such positive contributions to the global economy must become a full Member of this great organization, the United Nations. Finally, we must seek to ensure that the Organization is responsive to the ever-changing global environment. Let us ensure that we address the needs of our peoples. And let us move forward with a United Nations that is prepared to fuel the engine that would bring about more equitable participation in the global community. Let us always put people first and be guided by God.  Before I begin, I should like to make a personal comment. As a former official of the United Nations Population Fund, I should like to express my great pride and personal satisfaction at being able to speak to the Assembly today and to address those countries with which I have worked, together with my other colleagues in the United Nations. All of us, of course, share a hope that our dream of a better world will come true. It is a great source of satisfaction to see the President preside over the work of this Assembly, familiar as I am with his great personal and professional skills, which guarantee the success of our work. I should also like to express to his predecessor, Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab, our gratitude and recognition of the efficient work he has done. Similarly, I would like to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the detailed report on the work of the Organization that he has presented. It describes the important work carried out by the United Nations over the past year as well as the challenges for the future. I should also like to express on behalf of my Government our pleasure at the entry of Tuvalu as a new Member of our Organization. This is an important step forward along the road of universality, which is the aspiration we all share. The recently concluded Millennium Summit was a useful instrument for reflection by our Heads of State upon the present and future of the Organization. This Organization must adapt its structures and mechanisms for action to the new challenges facing humanity. I am certain that the numerous suggestions that have been made will help establish clear lines of action so the United Nations can operate more efficiently and effectively. At the last summit of the Rio Group, which took place in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, the Heads of State who comprise this political consultation mechanism endorsed the Cartagena Declaration as our singular contribution to the Millennium Summit and to the future of the United Nations. It is our intention to ensure appropriate follow-up to the initiatives and aspirations expressed in this document in order to make certain that they become a reality in the future for the benefit of all humanity in terms of democracy, trade flows, better dynamics in international relations in terms of human security and the pursuit of multilateral solutions. I fully agree with the Secretary-General of our Organization when he says that the conclusion of one century and the turn of the millennium provide us with a unique vantage point for reflecting upon our common destiny. Fifty-five years have passed since the creation of the United Nations, and during that period we have seen many auspicious as well as many worrying events. Let us pause for a moment and think about all the good that we have done and the good that we have failed to do, as well as upon what we have done wrong or should not have done. The conclusion of the cold war, of which this Organization was one of the most important theatres, seemed to herald a period of peace and prosperity for humanity, in fulfilment of the Biblical mandate to beat our swords into plowshares. Nevertheless, humanity is still facing terrible threats, not only to its security — because war and violence persist in new and more sophisticated forms — but also threats to its very existence, in light of the prospect that our planet may become uninhabitable as a result of human activities. Consequently, in the new millennium the United Nations will be equally if not more important than it was in the previous millennium. Our Organization must of course adapt to new times. The reform of our Organization cannot be postponed any further. The structures of its main organs must adapt to the new characteristics of the international community, with the increasing number of nations which belong to it. We must adapt to the increasing role of civil society, the spread of the system of representative democracy, the globalization of our world markets and the intolerable persistence of serious social deficits in most of our States. 23 In particular, our Organization must adapt so that our efforts towards development are rendered appropriate for each individual wherever he or she may live and wherever his or her community may be located, and wherever we want to see our families grow. The human being as the centre of development will continue to be at the centre of our mandate, as well as the commitments assumed by each and every one of our countries at summits of the United Nations over the past decade. The efforts made by each man, woman or child to take advantage of the opportunities offered by global markets and new economic trends is first and foremost a local and community effort and secondly a national effort, which can create opportunities for growth and ensure participation for each man and each woman. The reorganization of the United Nations, and in particular its system of development, must ensure that it can respond creatively and flexibly to these community and national efforts. This will make it possible progressively to improve for each individual daily access to health, education, sanitation services, technology and reasonable credit, as well as the equitable participation of women in productive activities. In that way, we can ensure the integration of all our citizens into the global market and make certain they can benefit from this process. It is vital that the cooperation activities of the United Nations be well structured and have a real impact on our populations, in particular women, children and adolescents. It is essential that these activities create an environment of national dialogue in each of our countries with a view to harmonizing views on development and creating consensus on the means for achieving growth, in order to give true meaning to social and productive investments and to meet the qualitative demands of civil society. National consensus must necessarily be the basis for global consensus, and today more than ever it must be the basis for consensus among integrated groups that wish to negotiate with each other. However, a reorganized and renewed United Nations, in the ultimate analysis, must be the guarantor of the well-being of each of our citizens. The United Nations exists so that all of our citizens can benefit from new trends in trade, development and technology in order to achieve growth as individuals and as families and to improve their quality of life and feel that they live in a better world where their sons and daughters will be able to continue to grow, in peace. Turning to another subject, we are concerned about the delay in the adoption of a decision about the future composition of the Security Council, because we feel that its enlargement cannot be postponed. Its composition must become more equitable and representative and allow for a better political balance. This gradual process of democratization must begin with an increase in both categories of members, permanent and non-permanent, and it should also include both developed and developing countries. Special attention should be given to the fact that the developing countries are now under-represented in that very important body. Paraguay also believes that this reform should include the gradual elimination of the veto rights of the permanent members. We welcome the Brahimi report, which establishes a valid framework for the reform and strengthening of United Nations peacekeeping operations. Paraguay has always supported such operations as a fundamental mechanism contributing to world peace and security. I should also like to refer to the regular budget of the Organization, in connection with the aspirations of some developed countries to reduce their contributions to a lower percentage. We believe that this should not mean that the assessed contributions of developing countries would increase to unprecedented percentages, even though the figures involved may seem to others modest or insignificant. It is paradoxical that some developed countries would have their contributions reduced precisely when they are enjoying excellent economic growth, while other countries that are experiencing difficulties would see an increase in their contributions. It is in this context that we must seriously study the scale of assessments so that when we adopt it this year we will achieve a fair and equitable distribution of the financial burden of this Organization. We hope that together we will find balanced solutions and equitable formulas and timetables for redistributing the budgetary burden so that we can promote and reactivate the participation of large and small States in our Organization. International relations have acquired a new dimension as a result of the revolution in computer 24 technology, telecommunications and communications in general. The effect of this is what we call globalization, which has both positive and negative consequences. On the one hand it has produced a change in the consciousness of human beings, who for the first time feel they are part of a whole — that is, of humanity in its entirety. On the other hand, it has increased the divide between the poorest countries and the more advanced countries owing to the advantages accruing to those that are better prepared for the dismantling of national barriers. In these conditions, solidarity takes on a new urgency. It is an act of justice for those peoples who see all their potential progress subordinated to this process. In this regard, we fully agree with recent statements made by the representative of the Holy See during the special session of the General Assembly on social development, to the effect that the benefits of great scientific advances must be shared by all peoples and should not be enjoyed exclusively by the few. Otherwise we will merely be perpetuating differences and widening the gap between rich and poor countries. We know that decades of development assistance under past conditions have not succeeded very well in eradicating poverty and cultural backwardness in vast regions of the world. Nevertheless, this should not become a pretext for reducing the amount of development assistance, especially multilateral assistance, nor should we see any increase in conditionality. We believe fully in the multilateral approach, and we should totally reject conditionality when determining how to provide development assistance. Nor do we wish to justify the lack of good governance in many nations, which has meant in some cases that efforts were wasted to a great extent and only fuelled corruption and caused the loss of age-old, noble traditional practices. In the recent elections for the vice-presidency of the Republic, my country demonstrated once again the preference of our region for representative democracy. In the elections, which all observers considered exemplary because of the discipline, civic spirit and participation shown by the citizens, we saw the election of the opposition candidate, of the radical liberal party, Mr. Julio César Franco. The fact that two parties, until now adversaries, can share power is far from negative. Rather, it constitutes an opportunity to establish lasting political stability through the establishment of a Government of national unity that can efficiently foster the institutional and economic reforms needed in our country in order to achieve sustained progress. I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude — to the international community, to our friends in the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), the Rio Group, the European Union and the Organization of American States, and to the United States of America, Japan, the Republic of China and other countries around the world — for their constant support for our process of democratization. I would like to say to all of them that thanks to their efforts Paraguay is continuing along the road to democratic growth. We are certain that the spread of democracy and the increasing exercise of its freedoms by peoples will bring greater effectiveness to our State institutions in the short term. This, together with the increasing role of the private sector, can create fertile ground for investment and the transformation of productive activities in a large part of the world, leading to a reduction in unemployment and poverty. International cooperation, for its part, must establish clear priorities and offer what each of us needs. It cannot be simply humanitarian aid, although humanitarian aid is fully justified in emergency situations. Instead, international cooperation should be aimed at the integral, sustainable development of peoples. These are two words that are used and misused — “integral” and “sustainable”. When we say “integral”, we understand it to mean that aid must try to come to grips with the entire set of development problems of each country and of each individual, in order to guarantee respect for human rights — not only political rights but also economic and social rights; and merely partial solutions should not be offered. When we say “sustainable” we mean that assistance must not become an addiction for the beneficiaries. It should empower them to continue along the road to progress relying on their own efforts and should guarantee growth for future generations. Combating poverty means building peace. The security of the world must be based on the elimination of the underlying causes of violence, two of the principal causes being ignorance and poverty. This does not exempt us, however, from taking effective measures to limit the use of the instruments of violence, from their most deadly form, such as 25 weapons of mass destruction, to the more conventional, including small arms. In the latter case, my country supports the initiative to establish an international legal instrument with specific measures to check the illegal trade in such weapons. The preservation of our natural environment is a great source of concern and a subject for reflection. Paraguay, like many other developing countries, gives extremely high priority in its national policies to preserving the integrity and diversity of our natural heritage, handed on by our ancestors. This is not only because on it depends our current and future wealth, but also because we are fully aware of our grave responsibility to all humanity, since we are the guardians of resources needed for its very survival. Paraguay reaffirms its resolve to continue respecting and implementing the principles established in Agenda 21. In this regard, we attach high priority to the participation of the States parties in the legal framework developed during the implementation phase of the Agenda. With great pride I report that Paraguay is a fully fledged party to the most important international agreements on the environment. In this area, finally, it is important to mention the need to come to grips with the grave problem of the unsustainable use of water resources. It is necessary to intensify scientific cooperation and research in order to reduce the effects of environmental disasters, both natural and man-made. We believe that an equitable and fair trade system is vital for our development. In this regard, we reject any intent to perpetuate protectionist measures in the developed countries, particularly subsidies for agricultural production and exports, as well as the use of technical regulations as trade barriers against manufactured products. We claim our right to free access to the world's markets for those goods in which we are competitive. On this occasion, as we highlight the importance of reaffirming our commitment to this Organization, I believe it is appropriate to stress the essential role that the international legal framework can play in the achievement of our common objectives. In this regard, the Government of Paraguay has paid special attention to the invitation by the Secretary-General to all Member States to take advantage of this opportunity to strengthen our support for the international legal framework by signing, ratifying or acceding to treaties deposited with him that bear a special relationship to the spirit and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations. In this respect, I am very pleased to announce that on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Paraguay I have signed the following international instruments: the Optional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child — on the involvement of children in armed conflict, and on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography; the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of their Families; and the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. I should also note that the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, of which Paraguay was one of the first signatories, is in the process of parliamentary approval. I conclude by reaffirming the conviction of my country's firm belief in the United Nations, which is more necessary than ever in order to meet the great challenges of peace and development, which, despite significant progress, continue to be an urgent need of a great part of humanity.  On behalf of the delegation of the State of Kuwait, it gives me pleasure to extend to you, Mr. President, warm congratulations on your unanimous election as President of the fifty-fifth session of the United Nations General Assembly. We wish you success in steering the deliberations of this landmark session. Let me assure you of my delegation's commitment to work constructively with you towards meeting the common goals and aspirations of the international community. I wish to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the remarkable efforts made and prudence shown by your predecessor during his presidency of the last session of the Assembly. In the same vein, let me once again place on record our great admiration of and appreciation for the crucial role played by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, since he assumed the helm at the United Nations. Mr. Annan has been working tirelessly to improve the performance of the Organization's system in the interest of global peace, security and development and to bring it more in line with the ongoing transformations in international relations. On a membership note, let me now extend a warm welcome to the Republic of Tuvalu, which has joined our ranks as the newest Member of the United Nations. Tuvalu's admission to membership enhances the universal character of the Organization. Just a few days ago, United Nations Headquarters hosted an unprecedented, historic gathering of a very large number of heads of State or Government, who come together to renew their commitments to the Charter of the United Nations and to reiterate their unwavering belief in the importance and relevance of the United Nations in developing a better world, structured on the values of justice, equality, coexistence and cooperation. The Millennium Summit was a momentous occasion to review and appraise the achievements and failures of the past. It was an occasion to sketch out a vision to face the challenges of the future. The Declaration adopted by the Summit, together with the recommendations contained in the report of the Secretary-General on the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century, are a blueprint for addressing the pressing problems and challenges that will confront mankind in key areas. Chief among those daunting challenges that hamper the fulfilment of peoples' aspirations around the globe to achieve adequate levels of freedom, dignity and peace are the arms race, increasing national and racial conflicts, poverty, ignorance, development, human rights abuses, terrorism, environmental degradation and the spread of lethal infectious diseases like HIV/AIDS and malaria. The list can indeed go on ad infinitum. The effects and dangers of those problems cut across national borders and transcend any artificial barriers. If anything, this fact confirms the need for consolidated international efforts and a reinforced United Nations role system- wide. Here, we note with some measure of satisfaction the ongoing attempts being made at the global level to cope with those problems. Numerous world conferences and special sessions of the General Assembly held in the last few years have facilitated the conclusion of several international agreements and treaties covering a range of subjects. In those meetings, it was reaffirmed that resolve would rid humanity of the risks of nuclear weapons and the alarming dangers posed to international peace and security by their proliferation. In another important area, the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action were entrenched to enhance the status of women and to ensure their full rights. The Copenhagen Summit, with its focus on universal human development, was also the subject of a follow-up conference held recently. In that regard, the State of Kuwait takes pride in the fact that the United Nations Development Programme's Human Development Report 2000 states that Kuwait has maintained its rank of first among Arab countries, and number 36 in the world, in the field of human development. Kuwait is now determined to pursue its efforts to do even better in the future. A key component of our efforts is our 12 commitment to the implementation of the principles and goals enshrined in the international conventions and treaties covering human development and human rights, and to employ them at the national level with a view to improving our economic and social conditions. Interaction between the Kuwaiti Government and the National Assembly — which is the legislative authority in Kuwait and the product of robust parliamentary and democratic life in our country — will certainly accelerate our efforts to fulfil the goals and aspirations of the people of Kuwait. In the course of the decades that span the life of the United Nations, the Organization has established a good record of achievement and has proven its effectiveness in the resolution of many disputes and conflicts. It has also helped to contain many problems. Thus, it is now really difficult to imagine a world without the United Nations. The Millennium Summit Declaration reaffirmed that the United Nations is the common house indispensable to the entire family of nations. Having said that, and in view of the profound transformations in the world order and the attendant new problems and challenges, it has become imperative to continue to support and cooperate with the Secretary-General to reform the United Nations bodies with a view to streamlining them in response to the global changes, thereby enabling them to respond better to the challenges of the future. In that regard, we reaffirm the need to pursue efforts to improve the procedures and working methods of the Security Council. The goal is to make the work of the Council more transparent and to increase the number of permanent and non-permanent seats, with a view to expanding the base of the decision-making process under controls that ensure equitable representation to making an efficient contribution to the Council's fulfilment of its functions and responsibilities in terms of maintaining international peace and security. At this juncture, we wish to underscore the need for all Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full and on time, both to the United Nations regular budget and to the peacekeeping operations budget. It is indeed essential to provide adequate financial resources to the United Nations so that it may carry out its mandates. Ten years have elapsed since the Iraqi invasion of the State of Kuwait. That invasion constituted a serious precedent in international relations because it represented a flagrant violation of the Charter of the United Nations and the norms and principles of international law. Furthermore, that invasion undermined the security and stability of the Gulf region. Kuwait now recalls with pride the firm stand and resolve demonstrated by the international community in condemning, confronting and defeating that aggression. All of that was distinctly illustrated in a quick series of resolutions adopted by the Security Council under Chapter VII of the Charter as of the very first day of the invasion, on 2 August 1990. That historic stand by the international community was a remarkable embodiment and consolidation of the system of collective security. It also ushered in a new international order and represented a clear and strong message to any Government or regime that might pursue a policy of aggression with a view to territorial expansion at the expense of others. The reverberations of the sinister Iraqi aggression are still being felt by all of us today. The Security Council remains seized with the repercussions of that aggression. Since the invasion, the Council has had to adopt 54 resolutions and numerous presidential statements in response to the persistent procrastination and equivocation of the Government of Iraq, which has constantly sought to evade its international obligations. Indeed, it is regrettable that for 10 years now the Government of Iraq has failed to meet its obligations under Security Council resolutions. The main requirements yet to be met under the resolutions of the Security Council relate to the question of Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners and hostages. This humanitarian issue illustrates the tragedy facing hundreds of families who continue to grieve over the unknown fate of their loved ones. Little progress, if any, has been made. Basically, we are still at square one. Resolutions 686 (1991), 687 (1991) and 1284 (1999), which requested Iraq to unconditionally cooperate with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to account for prisoners and hostages, remain unimplemented. In fact, since its boycott of both bodies in January 1999, the Government of Iraq has continued to illustrate its disregard for the humanitarian nature of this issue through its insistence on not resuming its participation with the Tripartite Commission and its Technical Subcommittee. Furthermore, the Government of Iraq also insists on non-cooperation with the high-level Coordinator, 13 Ambassador Yuli Vorontsov, who was appointed by the Secretary-General to facilitate the repatriation of prisoners and hostages. Let me seize this occasion to reiterate our call to the Iraqi Government to deal positively with this matter, given its humanitarian, religious and moral dimensions. This issue must be resolved in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. Along the same lines, we demand that Iraq cooperate with the high-level Coordinator to complete the return of stolen property. This is also in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. The most important of those assets include military hardware that has been incorporated into Iraq's military system and the irreplaceable archives of the State of Kuwait, which were deemed by the Security Council as the “State memory” of our country. The stubborn resistance by Iraq to return these assets and documents betrays the non-peaceful intentions still harboured by the Government of Iraq towards Kuwait. What is deeply regrettable is that the Government of Iraq has not only failed to meet the obligations we outlined earlier, but that it has allegedly completed the elimination of its weapons of mass destruction while at the same time not allowing United Nations inspectors to verify those claims. Iraq also claims to have fulfilled all its obligations under the relevant Security Council resolutions. In its stance, Iraq stands isolated in the face of the United Nations, the international community and the many regional organizations and groupings that continue to call on Iraq to complete its implementation of Security Council resolutions. In his report on the work of the Organization this year, the Secretary-General put it succinctly and eloquently when he stated: “Iraq's lack of compliance with various Security Council resolutions continues to be of grave concern.” (A/55/1, para. 54) In addition, the decision adopted by the last ministerial meeting of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, last June confirms beyond any doubt that there is indeed a single unified international and regional position on the need for Iraq to comply with Security Council resolutions. That decision demanded that the Government of Iraq, among other things, continue its efforts to complete the implementation of its commitments under Security Council resolutions in the interest of peace, security and stability in the region. It also welcomed the adoption of Security Council resolution 1284 (1999) and invited Iraq to cooperate with the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission (UNMOVIC) under the chairmanship of Mr. Hans Blix to implement the provisions of resolution 1284 (1999). That same decision further stressed that Iraq must expressly and clearly admit that its invasion and occupation of the State of Kuwait was a breach of pan- Arab, Islamic and international treaties and laws; a breach of the Charter of the League of Arab States and the Common Arab Defence Pact; the Charter of the Organization of the Islamic Conference; and the Charter of the United Nations. The decision also renewed the Organization of the Islamic Conference's invitation to Iraq to take the necessary steps to demonstrate its peaceful intentions towards the State of Kuwait and other neighbouring countries, both in words and deeds. Against this backdrop, we would like to know where Iraq stands now vis-à-vis those resolutions and the sincere calls made upon it by regional and international organizations. We note with regret that the Government of Iraq, for a good 10 years now, has not drawn the right lessons. It continues to reveal its non-peaceful intentions and policies of aggression towards the State of Kuwait and neighbouring countries. The remarks made by the Iraqi President and the announcements by several high-ranking Iraqi officials last month, together with the unjust Iraqi misinformation campaign against Kuwait and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, are perhaps the most compelling evidence that the Iraqi regime is still determined to pursue a course of aggression and feels no sense of remorse or contrition over its actions of 2 August 1990. Therefore, Kuwait calls on the international community to maintain its pressure on the Government of Iraq, with a view to forcing it to implement all relevant Security Council resolutions and to abandon its aggressive attitude, which seriously jeopardizes the security and stability of the State of Kuwait and of other States in the region. Kuwait, for its part, supports all efforts made by the United Nations to alleviate the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq, with whom we fully sympathize. We therefore welcome the improvements introduced occasionally by the Security Council sanctions Committee established by resolution 661 14 (1990) into the operational methods of the humanitarian programme, with a view to facilitating and expediting delivery of humanitarian materials to the brotherly people of Iraq. We note with satisfaction the report of the Secretary-General issued last week, in which he stated that the humanitarian programme had succeeded in providing a great measure of assistance to meet the urgent humanitarian needs of Iraq in all sectors, despite the many obstacles and difficulties that the programme faces. At the regional level, in keeping with Kuwait's keen interest in ensuring security and stability in the Arabian Gulf region, and in view of the close relations between the sister State of the United Arab Emirates and the friendly State of the Islamic Republic of Iran, we support the position of the States of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) on the question of the three Emirates islands. We hope that the efforts being made by the ad hoc GCC Tripartite Ministerial Committee will prove successful in creating a bilateral negotiating mechanism to resolve the current dispute over the islands in accordance with the norms and principles of international law and good neighbourliness. If negotiations fail to bring about a solution, then the dispute should be referred to the International Court of Justice to resolve it in a satisfactory manner. This will help bolster the mechanisms of reconciliation among the States of the region and expand the channels of mutual interests and confidence-building. In the same vein, we would like warmly to welcome the maritime border demarcation agreement between Kuwait and its sister the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This accord reflects the depth of brotherly relations between our two countries. It also represents a model of civilized cooperation in resolving border disputes and problems. With that outcome, we look forward with interest to the forthcoming talks between Kuwait and the friendly State of the Islamic Republic of Iran to complete the demarcation of maritime borders between the two countries. We take this occasion to pay tribute to the wisdom shown by the leaders of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Yemen, which resulted in the signing of an agreement on the demarcation of the border between the two countries. This will no doubt consolidate the underpinnings of security and stability in the region. In the context of the relentless search for a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East, Kuwait has been closely following the peace process since its inception in Madrid in 1991. That process has time and again experienced obstacles, risks and deadlocks due to the unwillingness of the Israeli Government to carry out the accords concluded with the Palestinian National Authority within the framework of the peace process. Israel has so far demonstrated its non-commitment to, and non- compliance with, the operational principles and framework of the peace process anchored chiefly in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), together with the principle of land for peace. Israeli intransigence aborted the success of the recent Camp David summit despite the immense and tireless efforts made by the United States Administration. Here, Kuwait wishes to reiterate its commitment to the Arab position of adherence to peace as a strategic option. We also reaffirm our belief that a comprehensive and just peace will not be possible without the full restoration to the Palestinian people of their legitimate rights, including the right of return of the Palestinian refugees, pursuant to paragraph 11 of General Assembly resolution 194 (III), and the establishment of their independent state on their national territory, with Jerusalem as its capital. We also call for the resumption of negotiations on the Syrian- Israeli track, with a view to achieving full Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Arab Golan to the border line of 4 June 1967. At this point, we wish to urge the active and effective facilitators in the peace process, especially the United States of America, to redouble their efforts and to bring pressure to bear on the Israeli Government to convince it that the only viable path to easing its security concerns is a return to the framework and principles established at the Madrid Conference, in order to achieve a genuine peace that secures the reinstitution of lawful Arab rights to their legitimate owners. Still in the context of the Middle East, we would like to express to our brothers in Lebanon — the President of the Republic, the Government and the people — our warm congratulations on the restoration of national sovereignty over their liberated land after more than 20 years of Israeli occupation, which left in its wake vast destruction in the regions of southern Lebanon and western Bekaa. As a contribution to the 15 rehabilitation and reconstruction of southern Lebanon and with a sense of responsibility emanating from the close brotherly bonds between Kuwait and Lebanon, the Government of Kuwait has made a cash grant of $20 million and has requested the Kuwait Fund for Economic Development to finance projects for rebuilding infrastructure in villages of the South. Kuwait will in the meantime continue its support for Lebanese Government efforts to extend sovereignty over all its national territory to safeguard Lebanon's territorial integrity and independence. Kuwait welcomes the positive developments at the national reconciliation conference of Somali factions that was held in Djibouti last month. We pay tribute to the sustained and sincere efforts made by the President of Djibouti, His Excellency Mr. Ismail Omar Guelleh. We hope that the remaining factions will join the national reconciliation process in order to shore up the unity and stability of Somalia, which, we hope, will eventually bring that country back into the fold of Arab, Islamic and international life. We take this opportunity to stress Kuwait's support for the people of Somalia in their efforts to rebuild State institutions and to reconstruct the country as a whole. Turning to the rest of Africa, Kuwait is following with deep sorrow the conflicts and civil wars that have long afflicted a number of countries. These conflicts imperil the peace and stability of many nations and deplete their potentials, capabilities and resources. Even though the problems of Africa have come to be a focus of the global agenda, and even though the United Nations system has embarked on in-depth discussion and analysis of the root causes of those problems, the proposed solutions remain blueprints awaiting implementation. The net result is that the continent continues to be plagued by bitter conflicts and painful political instability, which aggravate already intractable economic and social problems, foremost among them foreign debt, poverty, illiteracy and the spread of contagious diseases, such as HIV/AIDS and malaria, which afflict millions of people and claim the lives of hundreds of thousands of innocent victims every year. It is very sad indeed that many countries in Africa are suffering from these problems at a time when the modern world has made enormous progress in all areas of human activity. We therefore urge the international community to pursue its efforts more vigorously to help bring peace and security to African nations and to assist them in meeting their economic and social development goals. A vital role can be played by the international aid agencies and financial institutions, which we hope will redouble their outreach efforts to overcome Africa's daunting problems and challenges. Kuwait believes that any such donor drive will not be effective unless and until African peoples and Governments themselves shoulder their responsibilities and dedicate their full energies to lifting themselves up out of their current misery and onto the path of mainstream modern progress. Another key factor in this process is the need to resolve disputes by peaceful means in order to create a climate of security and stability and to preserve sorely needed economic resources. The world today is witnessing the emergence of several promising economic phenomena created by the immense information and technology revolution that is sweeping the communication and trade sectors. Of particular significance is the formation of numerous international and regional economic blocs that are seeking to remove customs restrictions and to liberate trade among nations. In response, many developing countries have made drastic changes in their economic and administrative structures in order to align themselves with those transformations and to put themselves in an advantageous position with respect to economic globalization in the hope of achieving better economic growth and progress. Kuwait thinks that the phenomenon of globalization, notwithstanding its merits, could have an adverse impact on the economies of developing countries unless the very basis of North-South economic relations is restructured in line with the tenets of mutual benefit, common interest, the need to narrow the technology gap, and the removal of obstacles that impede the access of the products of developing nations to the markets of the developed industrialized countries in the interest of both groups. In the meantime, developed countries should provide adequate economic assistance to developing nations to help them strengthen their infrastructures and build up their economies on a sound and solid foundation. In this context, Kuwait has never shrunk from doing its fair share to meet all its international and regional obligations towards the developing countries. Our assistance is channelled through international aid agencies and institutions as well as through the Kuwait Fund for Economic Development. That fund has provided loans and financial grants for many 16 development projects and programmes in scores of developing countries. More than 96 countries on all continents have benefited from these loans and grants. Within its means, Kuwait will remain committed to helping the development efforts of developing countries, because of our belief that overall development and broader participation and cooperation are essential for ensuring security and stability for all countries of the world. We remain hopeful at the outset of a new century that the nations of the world will close ranks to fulfil the noble principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter. We also hope that the Millennium Declaration will be translated into a tangible reality that fulfils the aspirations and the vision of peoples yearning to live in a climate of security, peace, freedom and justice, and in a world where the enormous power of science and technology will be harnessed to serve human development in all spheres of life and to enrich human civilization. Let us make partnership and cooperation to build a better tomorrow for our children our guiding motto in the new century. Let us pledge ourselves to bequeath to the generations of the coming century the assurance that we have kept our faith to them, and that we have sown for them the seeds of goodness that will yield a better life.It is my pleasure to congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri on his assumption of the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, and I should like to convey to him our best wishes for a successful accomplishment of his tasks. I should also like to express our high esteem to his predecessor, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Namibia, who conducted the work of the previous session with notable skill. The Millennium Summit came to an end just a few days ago. From a certain point of view, it was an occasion for reviewing the state of international relations following the collapse of the bipolar international order. We have taken note of the increasing number of States complaining of the unipolar control over international affairs and the extent of the current and future dangers that this situation can give rise to. More than 10 years ago, Iraq drew attention to the first signs of many dangers and basic problems that have since grown worse and become the focus of a significant part of the discussions of the Millennium Summit. In February 1990, President Saddam Hussein warned against the grave dangers resulting from the unilateral control assumed by the United States of America and its headlong rush to impose its hegemony on the world in general and on the Arab Gulf region and other Arab countries in particular. He also warned against the dangers posed by that State's recourse to illegitimate and immoral ways and means of achieving that goal, including the use of brute force; the exercise of pressure; political and economic blackmail; interference in the internal affairs of States; the fomenting of racial, religious and sectarian conflicts; and the use of international institutions to serve the interests of American policy. Iraq also drew attention to the following situations at an early stage. The first was the exploitation by the industrialized countries, the United States in particular, of scientific and technological progress for political purposes, with a view to engulfing all other countries 8 of the world in a wave of capitalistic globalization, claiming that globalization is an inevitable fate to which all must submit, regardless of the negative consequences and dangers it entails for the lives of the vast majority of humankind. Secondly, it drew attention to the adoption of a double standard as far as political positions are concerned, and it noted an indifference to the legal and political standards imposed by internationally binding agreements, where a balance is struck between rights and obligations in the process of the coexistence of interests among various countries, without any distinction or discrimination. Thirdly, it noted the prevalence of the logic of “power and opportunity” in the exploitation of United Nations mechanisms to ensure the adoption of resolutions supporting the selfish political aims of one country or a few countries at the expense of common principles in international relations, without first giving consideration to obligations undertaken under the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of justice and equity — hence the recourse to mandatory embargoes and comprehensive economic sanctions as a goal in and of itself, as well as the continuation of the policies of starvation and destruction of the economies of various countries and societies. Fourthly, it drew attention to the imposition on the international community of unilateral policies through mechanisms and arrangements outside the international system, and to the fact that such arrangements were treated as substitutes for the United Nations in those cases where the hegemonic Powers, headed by the United States, expected to meet with strong opposition by the United Nations to those unilaterally determined policies, as we saw in the case of the aggression launched by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Fifthly, it noted the phenomenon of the forcible adjustment and adaptation of established rules of international law to serve the unilateral policies of the hegemonic Powers, headed by the United States of America, through the imposition of strange and bizarre interpretations of the contents of such rules, or even total disregard for them when said Powers were unable to impose their strange interpretations thereon. An example of this dangerous phenomenon can be found in the feverish attempts to minimize the importance of the principles of State sovereignty, national independence and non-interference in the internal affairs of States. Sixthly, it noted the phenomenon of evading responsibility in cases where the assumption of responsibility would not be profitable from an economic point of view, as is the case in questions related to environmental pollution, the expansion of the sphere of poverty in the world and the obstruction of the development of the States of the South, all of which are cases where the responsibility of the advanced industrialized countries is quite obvious. The dangers, challenges and negative phenomena to which I have referred, as have many other speakers in the course of this general debate, have led to broad reflection on the solutions needed to overcome those difficulties and problematic issues. Iraq is of the view that the starting point is for United Nations actions to be a true expression of the will of all peoples and nations. That is how the Charter of the United Nations was drawn up, in order to establish a system of collective security based on common collective interests. The stability and effectiveness of the system of collective security is based on cooperation among partners and on the basis of specific obligations, not unilateral action and domination, as is the case today. The right of nations and peoples to live in peace and stability is the essential requirement for the maintenance of international peace and security. This right can be guaranteed only if it is firmly linked to the right to economic and social development and to freedom from any kind of pressure or interference. This noble collective goal can be achieved only by upholding the United Nations system and by reforming and developing that system in order to invest it with the ability and competence to achieve that goal. Reform is particularly called for in the case of the Security Council, which must respect its obligations towards the community of States and must comply with the correct interpretation of the purposes and principles of the Charter in the performance of its functions and the use of its powers. It is also necessary to restore the role of the General Assembly in the maintenance of international peace and security, so as to ensure the necessary balance if the Security Council fails to assume its basic responsibilities under the Charter because of the unilateral and abusive exercise of its powers. 9 The wave of capitalistic globalization sweeping over today's world continues to widen the gap between the rich and the poor in the world. This dangerous phenomenon requires a forceful call to lay the foundations of a true international partnership in order to re-establish economic and social justice at both the international and national levels, upholding the principle of equitable sharing by all of the fruits of scientific and technological progress, and stopping rich countries from using science and technology as tools for imposing their policies of exploitation on the countries and peoples of the world. A dynamic partnership between the countries of the North and the countries of the South is fundamentally opposed to the logic of domination and unilateral power and to the transformation of science and technology into political tools for the subjugation of others. On the other hand, the call for democratization within countries will remain spurious unless its advocates adhere to a democratic course at the level of dealings with other States and with international organizations. Furthermore, the call for respect for international law and its primacy at the national level will remain devoid of credibility unless it is associated with the kind of conduct that calls for respect for the letter and spirit of the Charter of the United Nations and the rules of international law, and with the possibility of recourse to international judiciary bodies, with regard to the interpretation and application of legal provisions to ensure a delicate balance between powers and responsibilities, rights and obligations. Any affirmation of respect for human rights should not overlook the fact that civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights should, as a matter of equal importance and urgency, enjoy the same respect. Nor should such an affirmation overlook the fact that the world is characterized by cultural and civilizational diversity, and that the cultural and social assumptions tacitly accepted by a given culture cannot be imposed on other nations and peoples. What I have just stated does not belong to the realm of theory. We in Iraq continue to suffer from the domination and abusive actions of the hegemonic powers headed by the United States of America. Our deep faith in the righteousness of our position explains the steadfastness shown by our country and our people in the face of the might of the unipolar Power. The comprehensive sanctions imposed on Iraq have entered their eleventh year. By all standards, these sanctions amount to genocide and involve a brutal application of collective punishment and revenge against an entire people. There is no longer any doubt that these sanctions constitute a continued, flagrant violation of the United Nations Charter, of international law and of international humanitarian law. This matter has been confirmed by the reports of United Nations agencies and humanitarian and human rights organizations. The most recent testimony to that effect is to be found in the working paper adopted by the Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights at its fifty-second session, held in Geneva from 31 July to 25 August 2000. The paper affirmed that the comprehensive sanctions against Iraq are unequivocally illegal under existing international humanitarian law and human rights laws. It is well known that both the United States and Great Britain claim that the oil-for-food programme, agreed to between the United Nations and Iraq, alleviates the impact of the unjust sanctions imposed against Iraq. Such a claim, however, is quickly proved to have no basis when set against the figures published by the United Nations itself. More than three and a half years have now passed since the inception of the programme, during which Iraq has exported $31.6 billion worth of oil. Of this total, $9.5 billion has been allocated to the Compensation Fund in Geneva and $1 billion allocated for operational administrative expenses of the United Nations while, in the course of three and a half years, only $8.3 billion has been disbursed for purchases to cover the needs of the Iraqi people. There are also floating and semi-frozen allocations for certain needs of Iraq amounting to $10 billion that have not been disbursed owing to obstructions placed by the Americans and the British. Such egregious obstructions include the suspension of 1173 contracts, valued at more than $2 billion, relating to construction materials and humanitarian needs. Despite increasing pressure on the international community to put an end to this ongoing genocide, two permanent members of the Security Council — the United States of America and Britain — insist on perpetuating this crime to further their plans to destabilize the Arabian Gulf region and preserve its hotbeds of tension with a view to prolonging their hegemony over and military occupation of the region and to plundering its wealth. 10 The United States openly declares that it is prepared to use the veto against any attempt to lift the sanctions imposed on Iraq. It is indeed shameful for the United States that its Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, has declared on television that the continuation of sanctions is worth the death of 500,000 Iraqi children. Just to clarify the matter, although the States Members of the United Nations have authorized the Security Council to act on their behalf provided that it do so in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations, pursuant to Article 24 of the Charter, the Security Council has, in the case of the comprehensive sanctions imposed on Iraq, gone so far beyond the purposes and principles of the Charter as to turn itself into a cover for perpetrating a policy of genocide against an entire people. Therefore, it behoves the States Members of the United Nations to voice their opinion as to the extent of the Security Council's faithful compliance with such authorization. In this connection, it is worth mentioning that, under Article 25 of the Charter, Members of the United Nations agree to accept and carry out the decisions of the Security Council in accordance with the Charter. This means that implementation of the comprehensive sanctions imposed on Iraq, which have become illegal under international humanitarian law and human rights law, is no longer binding on States Members of the United Nations. I must also point out that my country is being subjected to ongoing daily aggression by American and British aircraft in the no-fly zone imposed on northern and southern Iraq by unilateral decision of the Washington and London Governments. The aircraft launching the aggression take off from their bases in Saudi, Kuwaiti and Turkish territory. This continuous military action, which violates the integrity and sovereignty of Iraq's airspace, has no basis in law or in any binding resolution adopted by any competent organ of the United Nations. It constitutes instead an illegitimate unilateral action undertaken by the United States of America and the United Kingdom. These belligerent acts constitute both interference in the internal affairs of Iraq and ongoing military aggression against Iraq through the imposition of the two no-fly zones. The illegal character of the imposition of those two no-fly zones has been confirmed by official statements issued by the Russian Federation, France and China, which have from the very outset declared their position that the imposition of those zones has no basis in law. This position is also supported by a former Secretary-General of the United Nations who, in his book entitled Unvanquished: a U.S.-U.N. Saga, makes it clear that the American claim that Security Council resolution 688 (1991) authorizes the launching of attacks against Iraq in order to enforce the no-fly zone is baseless and that the enforcement of the no-fly zones, far from having been endorsed by the Security Council, is no more than a unilateral act by the Governments of Washington and London. The American and British acts of aggression have inflicted enormous material and moral losses on Iraq and gravely damaged its civilian infrastructure. The loss of human life to date has amounted to more than 300 martyrs, while more than 900 civilians have been wounded. The United States of America and Britain bear responsibility for these acts of aggression and for all their consequences, in accordance with the rules of state responsibility under international law. By the same rules, that responsibility is shared by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Turkey by virtue of their participation, support and assistance in carrying out these acts of aggression. The Saudi Government provides American and British aggressors with military facilities and the bases of Rafha, Dhahran, Khamis Mushait, Al-Jauf and Tabuk, from which scores of American and British planes take off to attack Iraq. In Kuwait, the rulers provide services, facilities and financing to the American and British aggressors at the air bases of Ali Al Salim and Ahmed Al Jaber. Iraq has discharged its obligations under relevant Security Council resolutions. Consequently, the logical result would be for the embargo imposed on Iraq to be lifted. Moreover, the Charter requires that the American-British aggression against Iraq be condemned and that its perpetrators and those who participate in it — Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Turkey — bear the international responsibility, with all its legal implications. We cannot, under any circumstances, deal with an unjust position that ignores the record of our fulfilment of our obligations and that denies us our legitimate right to have the embargo lifted, as required by the Charter and the correct interpretation of relevant Security Council resolutions. A flagrant example of how the record of the fulfilment of our obligations has been flouted and how our right to have the embargo lifted has been denied is to be found in the underhanded way by which the United States of America and Britain have made Security Council resolution 1284 (1999) a vehicle for defrauding Iraq of its rights and for misrepresenting its full discharge of its obligations under relevant Security Council resolutions, including in particular resolution 687 (1991). Resolution 1284 (1999) does not represent a solution at all, nor is it, in essence, anything other than a deliberate ploy to further American anti-Iraq policy, as embodied in the indefinite perpetuation of the embargo. We have therefore clearly declared that we shall have nothing to do with that resolution. The Middle East region is suffering from a grave situation caused by the fact that the Zionist entity that occupies the Arab Palestinian territories possesses a huge arsenal of weapons of mass destruction of all kinds — nuclear, chemical and biological — and longrange ballistic missiles. The Zionist entity occupying Arab Palestine refuses to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and refuses to place all its nuclear installations under the comprehensive safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Besides being a threat to peace and security in the Middle East region and the world, such a position exposes the double standard applied by the United States, which at once arms the Zionist entity and gives it unlimited support and deliberately ignores the provisions of paragraph 14 of Security Council resolution 687 (1991). This paragraph specifies that the measures imposed on Iraq should be applied to other countries in the region in order to make the Middle East a zone free of weapons of mass destruction and of all systems of delivery of such weapons, as well as to pursue the goal of imposing international prohibitions against chemical weapons. The Security Council has taken no action in this regard, despite the fact that Iraq has implemented all the required measures. Consequently, the way in which the Security Council has acted under American pressure in this context is a flagrant example of a double-standard policy.  Please allow me to extend my warm congratulations to you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its current session. I am confident that, with your wisdom and experience, and with the support and coordinated efforts of the member States, the Millennium Assembly will successfully complete all its work. At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to Mr. Gurirab for the contribution he made as President of the General Assembly at its last session. The Millennium Summit, which attracted worldwide attention, has just concluded. The United Nations Millennium Declaration is a consensus reached by world leaders on how to meet the major challenges facing mankind today. The Declaration reviews and sums up the course that the United Nations has travelled over the past 55 years. More importantly, it offers a blueprint for the United Nations in the new century and the new millennium and important guidance to people around the world in their pursuit of peace, development and common progress. I would like to add my voice to the call to action made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the closing ceremony of the Summit. We should work together to turn the consensus reached at the Summit into action and usher in a new era of peace and development for people all over the world. It is the primary mission of the United Nations in the new century to uphold the purposes and principles of its Charter, promote democracy in international relations, maintain world peace and stability and facilitate the development and prosperity of all countries. The United Nations Charter is a manifestation of the peoples' aspiration to equality, justice and freedom. Over the past 55 years, the United Nations has adhered to the Charter aims of safeguarding peace, developing friendship and promoting cooperation, as well as the core principles guiding international relations, such as sovereign equality and non-interference in the internal affairs of States. It is precisely for these reasons that the United Nations has grown in strength and its membership increased from 51 to 189. This Organization is still playing an irreplaceable role in world affairs. The history of the past 55 years has amply proved the effectiveness of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. Today, global issues have made our interests intertwined and modern technology has made our communication easier. In these circumstances, we need more than ever to face our common challenges together on the basis of equality, mutual respect and democratic consultation. The purposes and principles of the Charter are by no means outdated, but are rather of greater relevance today. Democracy in international relations requires compliance with the principle of sovereign equality, as 5 provided for in the United Nations Charter. Countries differ in size, strength and wealth, but they are all equal members of the international community. None should be discriminated against and their state sovereignty brooks no encroachment. The internal affairs of a country should be managed by the people of that country and major world affairs should be decided by all countries through consultation. The response to global challenges calls for worldwide cooperation and coordination. This is a necessity of our times and a prerequisite for the establishment of a fair and just new international political order. It is also the foundation and source of vitality for the United Nations in the new century. The reform of the United Nations should give full expression to democracy in international relations. The reform is aimed at better safeguarding the fundamental rights and interests of all Member States and, especially, at truly reflecting the will of developing countries, which make up the bulk of United Nations membership. It should not merely satisfy the needs of a few countries. The reform of the Security Council should seek primarily to increase representation of developing countries and should be based on extensive deliberations among Member States. It is against the will of the overwhelming majority of Member States to set arbitrar deadlines or to force the passage of immature plans. There is general agreement among the United Nations Member States on basing the scale methodology of regular budget and peacekeeping assessment on the principle of the capacity to pay. This methodology is also one that has been confirmed time and again by the General Assembly through its resolutions and should therefore be abided by in whatever circumstances. Any adjustment to this methodology should take into full account the specific economic conditions of developing countries. Such adjustments should be made only when there is consensus among all Member States through extensive consultation, thus facilitating the normal and sound operation of the United Nations. Another important historical task facing the United Nations is to respond to globalization and to achieve the common development of mankind. The twentieth century has seen both unprecedented economic prosperity and the greatest polarization. In the last decade of the century, economic globalization has advanced at the fastest pace, while the gap between the North and the South has continued to widen. According to the World Bank, the revenue of the low- income countries accounts for only 6 per cent of the world's total, although they make up more than half of the world's population, while that of the developed countries is 80 per cent with only one sixth of the world population. It is especially worrisome that there is an even wider gap between developing and developed countries in the field of advanced technology. The new economy is so far benefiting only the rich countries. Most developing countries are still information have-nots. Should this situation be allowed to continue, many developing countries will long remain deprived of the opportunity to participate in technological progress and economic growth and the world will be further polarized. To prevent poverty from swallowing up achievements of development and to prevent social injustice from shaking the basis of global stability, the United Nations must play its due role in narrowing the gap between the rich and the poor and bringing about common prosperity to the world. It is an unavoidable major responsibility of the United Nations in the new century to promote the establishment of a new international economic order based on cooperation on an equal footing and aimed at common development and to ensure that economic globalization benefits everybody in the world. The United Nations should give top priority to the issue of development, make efforts to change the current situation in which global economic affairs are dominated by only a few countries and ensure developing countries their right to equal participation in economic decision-making. In making or revising global economic rules of the game, consideration should first be given to the need of developing countries in order to facilitate their development and reduce the risks they may face when participating in globalization. The United Nations should also mobilize all the resources available and encourage the international community to narrow the “digital divide”, and it should help developing countries to seize, as far as they can, the opportunities brought about by the scientific and technological advancement driven by the information revolution. The United Nations also has the responsibility for introducing new rules to the world to make science and technology truly serve all of 6 mankind and the lofty cause of peace and development in the world. As drastic and profound changes are taking place in the international situation, what kind of security concept should be embraced is a major subject before the United Nations and all its Member States. Global strategic stability is the foundation on which world security rests. And the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty is an important cornerstone for global strategic stability. Any move to undermine the totality and effectiveness of the Treaty will have a profound negative impact on world peace and security. The proposal for a national missile defence system that is prohibited by the ABM Treaty is essentially aimed at seeking unilateral military and strategic supremacy, and thus a typical example of the cold war mentality. Such a plan, if implemented, will only bring serious negative consequences to the security of the whole world. The adoption by the General Assembly of the resolution on preservation of and compliance with the ABM Treaty (A/54/54 A) at its fifty-fourth session by an overwhelming majority is an indicator of the firm will of most countries in the world to maintain and strictly observe the ABM Treaty. The United Nations should continue to show serious concern over the attempt by a certain country to develop a missile defence system to the detriment of global strategic stability, and it should take necessary measures to stop this dangerous development. Security is mutual and relative. No country should enhance its security at the expense of that of the others. To seek absolute unilateral security is not feasible and will lead to greater insecurity. With increased international contacts and exchanges, countries of the world will find themselves sharing more common interests and facing more common challenges. Security can only be realized through dialogue on an equal footing and in the spirit of mutual understanding and mutual accommodation. It can only be maintained on the basis of mutual respect and peaceful coexistence, and it can only be consolidated through mutually beneficial cooperation and common development. The only way to protect the fundamental interests of all countries and enhance universal security is to replace the old security concept based on military alliances and military build-up with a new one that is characterized by equality, mutual trust, mutual benefit, cooperation and settlement of disputes through dialogue. In recent years, China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan have reached, within the framework of the Shanghai Five and through consultation and cooperation based on equality, an agreement among themselves on confidence-building in the military field and reduction of military forces in the border areas. This offers something useful for the international community to draw upon in its exploratory efforts for a new security concept. We have noted with pleasure the positive changes in the situation on the Korean Peninsula and the positive outcome of the successful historic summit between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea. It has shown once again that dialogue and consultation based on equality serve to enhance mutual trust and improve relations between States. We appreciate the efforts made by both the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea to promote peace, stability and development on the peninsula and in the region. We deeply regret that the tripartite summit at Camp David failed to produce any agreement. We believe that the Middle East peace process will move forward as long as the parties concerned earnestly, patiently and unswervingly engage themselves in negotiating and seriously implement the agreements that have already be reached among them on the basis of the relevant United Nation resolutions, in accordance with the principle of land for peace and in the spirit of mutual trust and mutual accommodation. In the twentieth century, mankind suffered a great deal from the scourges of war. In the twenty-first century, humanitarian crises of a massive scale must be prevented, and the tragedy of innocent people being slaughtered on a large scale must not be allowed to repeat itself. The United Nations shoulders a primary responsibility for the maintenance of world peace, and therefore it should work harder to stop conflicts and eliminate wars. In the present-day world, hegemony and power politics still exist. Territorial disputes, ethnic feuds and religious rifts have all led to incessant regional conflicts. Some countries and regions hope that the United Nations will assist them in stopping conflicts, which we fully understand. At the same time, we must not fail to see the complexity of international intervention and the danger of inappropriate intervention. The United Nations intervention should 7 aim at eliminating the root causes of a given conflict rather than delaying its settlement. It should aim at facilitating reconciliation between the conflicting parties rather than deepening their hatred and hostility. We are of the view that major powers and groups of countries should respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the countries concerned rather than meddling in their internal affairs or triggering new conflicts. In the new circumstances, peacekeeping operations remain an important means for the United Nations to fulfil its obligations in safeguarding world peace and security. In this regard, it is essential to ensure and enhance the Security Council's responsibility and political leadership in peacekeeping operations and to ensure the observance of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. United Nations peacekeeping operations should be launched with a sense of realism and within the capacities of the United Nations. The limited resources should be put to where they are most needed. Human beings are the most precious among all the creatures on earth. To promote human development and protect all the rights and interests of mankind is the primary responsibility of all countries. China is the most populous country in the world. The Chinese Government has taken upon itself to safeguard the independence and dignity of the Chinese nation and to ensure the almost 1.3 billion Chinese the right to a decent life and all-round development. It has regarded this as its sacred duty and will do all it can to achieve this end. Human rights improvement is an ongoing process. The human rights conditions of a country are up to the people of that country to assess and improve. Since people live under different circumstances, the form in which human rights are embodied changes with these circumstances and with time. Therefore, how to protect and promote human rights depends on the actual conditions and specific needs of a country. To arbitrarily impose a fixed set of human rights rules, regardless of the differences in the specific environment and reality, will not serve the interests of the people of any country. To interfere in other countries' internal affairs in the name of protecting human rights in order to advance one's own political agenda is simply to blaspheme and betray the human rights cause. The United Nations should vigorously encourage dialogues and exchanges among different civilizations and countries on human rights and discourage confrontation and exclusion — which are the general trend of the human rights movement. In providing humanitarian assistance, the United Nations should give equal priority to the prevention of conflicts and the protection of human rights, on the one hand, and to the reduction and elimination of poverty and the promotion of human development, on the other hand. In this context, the United Nations should work in close coordination and cooperation with the countries and Governments concerned, instead of bypassing them, and ensure human rights for the majority of the people. Otherwise, such operations will trigger a humanitarian disaster of a greater scale. Only when the above-mentioned principles are abided by can the United Nations play a useful role in protecting human rights. A few days ago, from this solemn podium Chinese President Jiang Zemin proclaimed to the whole world the Chinese people's firm determination to turn China into a strong, prosperous and united country with a high degree of democracy, and to promote world peace and development. In the past 20 years and more since the inception of reform and opening-up, China completed the first and second phases of its modernization strategy. With the advent of the new century, China will begin the third phase of the strategy and enter a new stage of accelerated modernization. Once China becomes a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), there will be major breakthroughs in its opening-up. China will honour its commitments and seriously fulfil its obligations, while enjoying its rights. Although there will be difficulties, risks and challenges on the road ahead, China is capable of removing every obstacle and achieving its grand objective of modernization. China will unswervingly stick to its independent foreign policy of peace and further develop its friendly relations with the rest of the world on the basis of the five principles of peaceful coexistence. A strong and developed China will not only benefit more than a billion Chinese people but also serve prosperity and progress worldwide. To resolve the question of Taiwan once and for all and complete the reunification of the motherland is a shared aspiration of the entire Chinese people, including our Taiwan compatriots. Adherence to the 8 principle of peaceful reunification and one country, two systems in resolving the Taiwan question will serve the development of the two sides on either side of the straits, contribute to amity and unity among compatriots on both sides, and facilitate peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region. The Chinese Government and people have committed themselves more strongly than anyone else to a peaceful reunification. They have demonstrated the utmost sincerity and made the greatest efforts to this end. We are convinced that — with the concerted efforts of the entire Chinese people, including those living in Taiwan — China will be able to realize its complete reunification at an earlier date. We are entrusted with the important task of charting a course for mankind for the coming century. Let us join hands and work together to build a more secure, prosperous and progressive world in the new century.It gives me great delight and honour to address the General Assembly's first session of the new millennium. I would like to begin by conveying my sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this historic session, the success of which is ensured, I believe, by the experience and wisdom you bring to this noble work. I would also like to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, whose dedication and leadership enabled the fifty-fourth session to lay the groundwork for the Millennium Assembly. I also take this opportunity to warmly welcome the admission of Tuvalu to the United Nations. Two weeks ago world leaders, including my President, gathered in this very place to rally the political will of the international community to meet the challenges of the new millennium. Their meeting of minds here in this Hall of peace, as summed up in the Millennium Declaration, reaffirmed the role of the United Nations as the embodiment of humankind's aspiration to greater peace and prosperity, to be strengthened and fulfilled through the efforts of all Member States. It is only right that the new millennium should start with the beginning of the end of the confrontation and conflicts handed down from the past era. Such a start has been made on the Korean peninsula with the first South-North Korean summit meeting in June. As a result, inter-Korean relations have taken a definite turn for the better. The whole world stands to benefit from the liquidation of the final legacy of the cold war that the summit appears to have set in motion on the Korean peninsula. During the June summit the two leaders engaged in an extensive discussion on peace on the Korean peninsula, South-North economic cooperation and the future of the Korean people. At the end, they announced a five-point joint declaration committing the top leaders of the two sides to steering inter-Korean relations away from tension and enmity towards reconciliation, peaceful coexistence and co-prosperity and eventual unification. The summit is being followed up with inter- Korean ministerial meetings to work out concrete steps to implement the summit agreements. Some steps have already been taken, such as the reopening of the liaison offices at the truce village of Panmunjom and several sociocultural exchange programmes. Some are in the making — the work to reconnect the railroad between the two sides and the negotiation of the necessary legal instruments for full-scale economic exchanges, such as agreements on investment guarantees, avoidance of double taxation, settlement procedures and dispute arbitration. The third ministerial round is to be held later this month on Cheju island of South Korea. In the latest development the two sides have agreed on a return visit to the South by Chairman Kim Jong Il at an early date. Furthermore, in a key move for tension reduction, a South-North defence ministers' meeting is to be held on 25 and 26 September, also on Cheju island. Each of these developments stirs the hearts and minds of the Korean people. But none would match the profound emotions that were aroused in mid-August by the exchange of visits in Seoul and Pyongyang by families that have suffered the unprecedented humanitarian plight of remaining separated for half a century. It was a limited exchange involving only 100 individuals from each side, out of an estimated 10 5 million members of families torn apart by the national division. But further exchanges are in the planning, as are more lasting solutions to their plight. As dramatic and hopeful as the June summit and the inter-Korean developments since then have been, only the first steps have been taken in the long process of ending the cold war and establishing a lasting peace on the Korean peninsula. We sincerely seek the abiding interest and support of the international community to see us through. In this regard, I should like to express my Government's wholehearted appreciation of the statement by the Co-Chairpersons of the Millennium Summit welcoming the inter-Korean summit and the follow-up measures. At the dawn of a new millennium the United Nations has yet to resolve the old problems of violent conflicts that are worsening in both scope and nature. In many parts of the world, countless lives continue to be lost in armed conflicts, insurgencies and ethnic violence at regional, subregional, and intra-national levels. We, as Member States, have to rally a stronger political will to prevent a repetition of these tragedies that have happened or are happening in Rwanda, Kosovo, Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is particularly deplorable that United Nations personnel in the field are under growing, violent attack. We urge all parties concerned to guarantee the safety and security of the peacekeeping, humanitarian and other United Nations personnel. In this regard we welcome the Brahimi report as providing a useful basis for improving the effectiveness of the peacekeeping operations activities with an adequate mandate and resources. My Government remains fully committed to United Nations peacekeeping missions. Last year, in support of the democratic aspiration of a people, the Republic of Korea sent an infantry battalion to East Timor. Furthermore, with the economy regaining a growth momentum, we are taking steps to fulfil our pledge of an increase in our contribution to the peacekeeping operations budget. This is an expression of our firm belief that in the twenty-first century the United Nations should be better prepared and more willing to fulfil its responsibility for international peace and security. Many leaders at the Millennium Summit spoke of the double-edged nature of the globalizing world, which brings unprecedented opportunities for economic growth on the one hand, while it further widens the disparities between the developed and developing countries, on the other. Aggravated by the digital divide of the information age, the wealth gap can become a source of unrest and instability in the world. The Republic of Korea has actively taken on the challenges of globalization. At home we have turned the recent economic crisis into an opportunity to gear up for the knowledge-based economy of the global information age. We knew that we must emerge from the crisis not simply as we were before the crisis but in a new form fit to thrive in the age of information industries and borderless competition. Thus, bold reforms have been under way to rid the economy of past inefficiencies and to accelerate liberalization and market opening. Active Government assistance has been rendered to small and medium-venture businesses in the information sector, as well as to educating the people in computer literacy. Government policies have combined with the intellectual vigour and adventurous spirit of the Korean people to produce the world's fastest growing Internet population an estimated 20 million users by the end of the year out of a population of 43 million, almost 50 per cent of our entire population. While actively promoting the information age, we have also given special attention and care to those pockets of society that would fall further behind without help. Our efforts in this area have been built around the concept of “productive welfare”, which aims at enabling the socially weak and enhancing the living standards of all. A key operative term is human resources development, which offers training and education to all who are willing to work. We believe that the same concept of enabling the weak to develop their capacities should be applied in international development assistance. Thus, on the occasion of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Forum on Shared Prosperity and Harmony in Seoul in March this year, our President, Kim Dae-jung, urged donors to support the developing countries in their efforts to set up information centres which would provide communities with access to the Internet and other conveniences of the information age. I am very happy that the proposal is entirely consistent with the Secretary-General's initiative on the United Nations Information Technology Service (UNITeS). In addition, 6 my Government is increasing its assistance for human resources development in the developing economies through the dispatch of experts and invitations to trainees in the information and telecommunication fields. In particular, in collaboration with the United Nations, we have offered training opportunities to experts from African countries in export promotion. We will continue to strengthen cooperation with the United Nations to address the mounting challenges that Africa faces. Shared values and ideals make for the strongest of the bonds that enable nations to work together beyond differences in history, ethnicity and socio- economic development. In this regard, the spread of democracy and its values in the post-cold-war era has greatly enriched the grounds for the global community to build a world of durable peace and prosperity and of dignity for all human beings. While upholding human rights and democratic values at home, democracies should cooperate to promote their universality in the global community. Thus, the Republic of Korea was happy to serve as a co-convenor for the first international conference of the Community of Democracies in Warsaw last June, and we are honoured that Korea will host the second international conference of the Community of Democracies in October 2002. Meanwhile, to strengthen democracy at home, my Government has continued the endeavour to improve human rights laws and practices. At present we are in the process of enacting a comprehensive human rights law, which will give birth to a national human rights commission. The commission will work to improve institutional arrangements for the promotion of human rights and to raise public awareness. We are also making significant progress in enhancing the rights of women and children as well as workers. Particularly noteworthy is the creation of the Ministry of Women, due within this year, to advance gender equality. As the new millennium opens, the challenges facing the United Nations are multifaceted and ever- diversifying. I have mentioned a few. There are many more issues, such as disarmament and sustainable development, that are equally important. However, the resources of the global body remain limited. Ongoing reform is required to enable the United Nations to meet the challenges with greater efficiency and effectiveness. Thanks to the Secretary-General's initiative, considerable achievements have been made to streamline the Organization, but there are still areas where creative input is called for. Security Council reform is one of those areas. We believe that representativeness, transparency and effectiveness must be the guiding terms in the debate for a comprehensive reform of the Council. We do not need new concepts to describe the challenges of the new millennium. They are still the problems of peace and prosperity and the right of human beings to live with dignity. However, globalization has increased the intensity of the problems as well as the chances for their resolution. Therefore, the role of the United Nations must also be consolidated. The Government of the Republic of Korea is prepared to play an active role commensurate with its abilities to accomplish the common goals of the global community. I sincerely hope that this body will lead the way in putting the lofty spirit of the Millennium Declaration into action. In the process, my country, the Republic of Korea, heartened by the enhanced hope for its peaceful and prosperous future, will play an active part.  wish at the very outset to convey to the countries and institutions represented here a message of sincere friendship from the people of Niger along with its fervent wish to maintain and continue to strengthen the links of peaceful coexistence and of fruitful and mutually beneficial cooperation with all the other peoples of the world. My warm welcome and hearty congratulations go to Tuvalu, the latest country to join the United Nations family. With the 24 November 1999 presidential elections and the 31 December 1999 legislative elections, our people emerged from a period of political instability and economic decline with every confidence in the resiliency of the democratic institutions established by our 18 July 1999 constitution, and with strengthened determination to ensure that the universal ideals of peace, freedom, justice and equity will prevail in Niger, throughout Africa, and everywhere in the world. 34 We are participating in this great gathering at the beginning of the twenty-first century, proud of being among the democratic nations and committed, at home and internationally, to the establishment of institutional and legal provisions based on free and equal participation by all, on transparency, on responsibility and on solidarity. Today's Niger is experiencing the same freeing of creative forces that results from the triumph of freedom, and the same upsurge in individual and collective initiative that is today being generated in democratic societies everywhere. We are no less optimistic about the inevitable triumph of the universal values of which the General Assembly is the shrine. But we also feel the same wrenching pain over the uncertain future caused by the persistence of conflicts and the destitution of the vast majority who are crushed beneath the burden of debt, endemic diseases, illiteracy and, above all, the troubling inadequacies of the remedies prescribed to deal effectively with the ills afflicting humankind. Hence our even more profound attachment to the principles and ideals of the Charter and our full conviction that the United Nations, which is at risk of being out of step with current developments towards increasingly participatory management of our common public resources, will undertake the necessary reforms to make its institutions and organs more responsive to the aspirations of the people they are supposed to represent. Refashioning the Organization to match the new century that is beginning, to make it a real instrument of change and to renew our hope goes far beyond simply restructuring its main bodies, subsidiary bodies and specialized agencies. We must also strive vigorously to open up the entire system to increasingly active partners, such as Parliaments, governmental regional organizations, non-governmental organizations, organizations of civil society, the media and the private sector, without ever losing sight of the primary vocation of the United Nations as an expression of the national will of Member States. This would greatly increase the international community's capacity for action in such varied areas as peace and international security, the fight against pandemics, especially HIV/AIDS, poverty eradication, the resolution of the question of debt and, generally speaking, the promotion of sustainable development in the world. For many countries represented here the primary ongoing source of anguish comes from the absence of basic physical security for citizens who are victims of armed conflict, and the unacceptable proliferation of light weapons and small arms, which States that are unstable and economically drained have difficulty halting. Other forums, including the Organization of African Unity, have pointed out ways of resolving the conflicts in Sierra Leone, Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in close cooperation with the United Nations. With regard to the Middle East, the recent failure of the Camp David process should further strengthen our determination in the tireless search for a just and lasting peace that can restore the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to an independent State, and ensure the return of the Golan Heights to Syria. In Western Sahara, it is time that the relevant United Nations resolutions were implemented for the self-determination of the Sahrawi people. In addition, the Iraqi people continue to be victims of an embargo that chiefly affects the most vulnerable sectors of society, including women and children. It is high time that the international community took the necessary measures to alleviate the pain of the Iraqi people. With regard to small arms and light weapons, which are one of the major challenges facing the international community, my Government feels that concrete and sustained measures should be taken at three levels — national, regional and worldwide — to combat the illicit trade, proliferation and use of this type of weapon. In this regard, my Government is pleased that a United Nations mission recently visited the Niger in order to evaluate in the field the relevance of the request for financing submitted by my Government. It is a pleasure for me to warmly thank the Governments of all interested States, particularly of France, Germany, Japan and Norway, for their financial contributions to the United Nations fund to assist States in the collection of small arms, which made that mission possible. A draft submitted by my country forms part of the subregional and regional initiatives aimed at halting the illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons, such as the Moratorium adopted on 30 October 1998 by the Conference of Heads of State and Government of the 35 Economic Community of West African States and the integrated project on security and development called Programme for Coordination and Assistance for Security and Development. The handover, on 5 June, of weapons held by various groups of the former rebellion and the lighting on 25 September 2000 of a flame of peace at Agadez, Niger, create hope for a return to calm for the people of the Niger and the full implementation of projects designed with the welcome assistance of bilateral and multilateral partners of the Niger. In this regard, the convening of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects next year bodes well. For the Niger the goal of that Conference should be to develop and strengthen international, regional and national efforts to prevent, combat, limit and eradicate illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons through strengthening national capacities in the areas of customs, police, justice and information. Never before has humankind had such wealth and so much potential to create common well-being. Yet today more than half of the world population still lives in destitution, excluded from the benefits of globalization and of the digital revolution. We can certainly welcome the unanimous will expressed by the international community to reduce poverty by half by 2015. But we need to go beyond statements of faith to establish a real international development strategy firmly based on the eradication of absolute poverty and on reviving growth in the developing world, and particularly in Africa, the most vulnerable region. The treatment of the question of the external debt of poor countries is one of the best barometers by which we can measure the real degree of the international community's commitment in the search for appropriate solutions to eradicate poverty. The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative, the present framework for debt alleviation, is too slow and too selective and comes with restrictive eligibility requirements that need to be made more flexible; otherwise, many countries will remain in perpetual poverty. Hence the urgent need to give fresh impetus to this Initiative. It is also essential to cooperate closely at the international level in order to further strengthen the cohesiveness of the coordination mechanisms of the various initiatives for Africa, so that that continent can benefit more from development assistance. Moreover, while not a panacea, information and communication technologies are important factors, for the developing world in general and for Africa in particular, of growth and integration into the global economy. The United Nations has a leading role to play in creating a partnership framework that would promote initiatives aimed at closing the digital divide so that technological benefits will not remain a remote promise. The recent high-level debate of the Economic and Social Council on the role of information technology highlighted in a timely manner the urgent need to make the digital revolution a tool for development and to fairly distribute its benefits through international cooperation. My country also fully supports the recommendation of the high-level expert group, contained in the Secretary-General's report, calling for universal access to new technology to be set out in a General Assembly resolution as a basic human right. The global partnership against AIDS in Africa, whose vitality was demonstrated during the Durban Conference, must henceforth be based, among other things, on the mobilization of sufficient resources, on prevention and on access to drugs. In an altogether different area, my delegation believes that particular attention should be given to the insidious problem of malaria. Increasingly resistant to the medical treatment used so far, this illness — which above all affects the most vulnerable populations of women and children — is currently a source of profound concern for Africa. This was confirmed by the recent summit of heads of State held at Abuja, Nigeria, on the issue. That meeting highlighted the importance of preventive action and of increasing the means to combat malaria. There is thus a need for the international community to give this problem the full attention it deserves and to contribute further to mobilizing the necessary resources for the research, prevention, treatment and eradication of that disease. At the threshold of the new millennium, the time is certainly right to rethink development. As the Secretary-General said at the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), held in Bangkok, the time has indeed come for a new global deal for least developed countries. That new global compact will be aimed at 36 correcting imbalances and at making it possible for everyone to participate in the new world economy and to share equally in its benefits. Today, it is undeniable that globalization has been accompanied by heightened inequalities and that, given the way it has evolved, it will not be able to meet the expectations of poor countries, whose rural and urban populations are paying a heavy social price for that process. Moreover, the failure of the recent World Trade Organization (WTO) Conference in Seattle has compromised the launching of what was supposed to be the development cycle that was finally to make it possible to attain the benefits of the much-touted trade liberalization. That development, it has been said in passing, is constantly being slowed by the protectionism of industrialized countries. The United Nations, as the democratic and universal body with the mandate to achieve the objectives of development, must more than ever promote reform and coordination of the international mechanisms of trade and finance. To that end, our common Organization has the necessary moral authority to regulate the process of globalization in the common interest of all. There is therefore a need to strengthen its role and to put in place rules for good global governance that are capable of promoting — in the words of that hallowed phrase — globalization with a human face. With the holding in 2001 of the international conference on financing for development and the third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, we hold out the resolute hope that there will be greater mobilization of financial resources, better coordination of policies and more effective cooperation among development actors, in particular among Governments, the United Nations system, international financial institutions, the private sector and civil society, so as to achieve the major objectives of poverty eradication and development. The praiseworthy efforts of the United Nations to promote and consolidate new and restored democracies deserves strong support, as that is in keeping with the will of our Organization to meet the aspirations of the peoples of the world. We in Niger fully appreciate all the valuable assistance given by the United Nations system and friendly countries for the restoration of democracy. After more than a decade of political and institutional instability, Niger — one of the least developed countries of the world, which is bowing under the weight of the debt burden and the impact of the downward trend in official development assistance and of climatic vagaries — has seen a return to democracy, in accordance with the profound aspirations of our people. However, as was so well put in his swearing-in statement by the President of the Republic, Mr. Mamadou Tandja, “We are aware that the support of the international community is essential to succeed in this recovery. We therefore appeal to all countries that support peace and solidarity and to international organizations to accompany us in our efforts, on the basis of mutual beneficial interests and with strict respect for national sovereignty.” We would like formally to reiterate here our gratitude to the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children's Fund and all of Niger's development partners for the invaluable support they have constantly given my country and its people during their most difficult times. By chance the schedule has it that Niger is speaking just before the end of the general debate of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, the socalled Millennium Assembly. What, then, could be more natural than for me to conclude my statement by repeating our satisfaction with the outstanding work done by our brother, Mr. Kofi Annan, at the head of the universal Organization? Whether it be in the area of maintaining international peace and security or that of developed countries' providing development assistance to the least developed, the Secretary-General deserves our full trust, support and encouragement. Namibia's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, your predecessor, Mr. President, was a good President. His old companion in the struggle, the late Mr. Johnny Makatini, as demanding as he was in his lifetime, would have been as proud as we at seeing the unequalled diplomatic talents Mr. Gurirab displayed for a whole year. I pay humble tribute to him here on behalf of Niger. I say to him: Theo, you will always be a freedom fighter. As for you, Mr. President, we know that the torch that has been passed to you is in good hands. Your personal competence and Finland's tradition of always standing with the weakest leads us fervently to believe that the Millennium Summit's conclusions will find in you a true and committed advocate, so that at last our Organization can acquire the new habits required by the advent of the twenty-first century.  At the outset, allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at the current session and to wish you every success in discharging your duties. I would also like to pay full tribute to your predecessor, Minister Gurirab, whose vast diplomatic experience and able guidance throughout the fifty- fourth session greatly contributed to its success and to the ultimate triumph of the Millennium Summit. It has been only 10 days since the historic event of the Millennium Summit secured an unprecedented quorum of the world's leaders to discuss at the highest level the role and place of the United Nations in the system of international relations in the new era. By adopting the Millennium Declaration, the international community clearly demonstrated its support for the fundamental purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, which continue to be the basis of international law and the main instrument that governs international relations. Ukraine's active participation in the work of the Millennium Summit and in the Security Council Summit, which was held on the initiative of the 6 President of Ukraine, testifies to the special importance that my country attaches to the activities of this universal Organization. Like most other States — and the Millennium Summit unequivocally reconfirmed this — Ukraine denounces the threat or use of force as a means of solving inter-State problems. We strongly believe that only the United Nations possesses both the relevant powers and the wide range of tools and mechanisms to address today's major global problems. These problems are the same today as they were several decades ago: war, poverty, inequality in distribution of resources, repression and discrimination. Having gathered on 7 September at the level of heads of State and Government for the second time in United Nations history, the Security Council reaffirmed its readiness to bear an essential share of responsibility for building a world free of fear, poverty and injustice. We consider the most important achievement of the Security Council Summit to have been the commitment, reaffirmed at the highest level, to ensuring the effective functioning of the system of collective security and to enhancing the efficiency of available mechanisms for preserving peace and, in particular, for conducting peacekeeping operations. We believe that the United Nations will not be able adequately to respond to the challenges to peace and security in the twenty-first century unless its peacekeeping potential is enhanced. Ukraine welcomes the report of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations, chaired by Ambassador Brahimi. My country finds most of its recommendations substantial and far-reaching and calls for their speedy implementation. Ukraine has always considered United Nations peacekeeping to be one of the most important raisons d'etre of this Organization, which is called upon “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”. That is precisely why since 1992 more than 12,000 representatives of Ukraine have participated in 20 United Nations peacekeeping operations and missions. Since the beginning of this year, Ukraine, fully recognizing its additional responsibility for maintaining international peace as a member of the Security Council, has increased twentyfold its contribution to peacekeeping operations. In the course of the past eight months alone, Ukraine has deployed a contingent of 650 troops with the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). We have also sent a group of military observers to the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), to Ethiopia and Eritrea, and have sent a group of civilian police to the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET). The deployment of a special Ukrainian police unit of 115 servicemen with the United Nations police force in Kosovo is being completed this week. Our military contingent earmarked for the United Nations operation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo stands in full operational readiness. Regrettably, it is common knowledge that human history can be called a chronicle of continuous wars and conflicts. I hope that at the end of the second millennium, having learned from its tragic past, humankind has finally grasped the simple truth — that it is necessary to fight the fires of wars long before they have erupted, because even the costliest peace is much better than the cheapest war. This leads me to emphasize the importance of the most expeditious and effective implementation of the proposal put forward by the President of Ukraine at the Millennium Summit and at the Security Council Summit. He spoke in favour of developing a comprehensive United Nations conflict prevention strategy, based on the large-scale use of preventive diplomacy and peace-building. Ukrainian experts stand ready for this work. I am glad to note that almost all the leaders who addressed the Millennium Summit recognized preventive action as a priority for the United Nations in maintaining peace. In our view, the concept of regional centres on conflict prevention can become a practical step towards developing a relevant United Nations strategy. In this context, Ukraine's recent proposal to establish a regional centre for ethnic studies in Kyiv, under the auspices of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), deserves proper attention. We think that the activities of such a centre, authorized to monitor current developments in the sphere of inter-ethnic relations in the OSCE region and directed at the timely detection of dangerous separatist tendencies, will be conducive to a further elaboration of the United Nations preventive strategy in cooperation with the OSCE. My country is keenly following the process of conflict settlement in the neighbouring Balkans, the troublesome region of Europe. While developments in 7 Bosnia give us sufficient grounds for optimism about the future of its peoples, the situation in Kosovo still causes us serious concern. We are confident that a peaceful settlement in Kosovo has to be pursued in strict compliance with Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In our view, it is impossible to resolve this problem without determining the future status of Kosovo following negotiations between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the authorized representatives of the province. Ukraine is determined to intensify efforts aimed at promoting the final peaceful settlement of the so- called “frozen” conflicts in the post-Soviet territories, particularly in Abkhazia, Georgia; Nagorny Karabakh, Azerbaijan; and Transdniestria, Moldova. As a member of the group of Friends of the Secretary-General, which is promoting a peaceful settlement of the almost decade-long Georgian-Abkhaz conflict, Ukraine cannot but be concerned about the lack of real progress towards peace in the region. I once again confirm the invitation by President Kuchma to host in Yalta the next round of negotiations between the Georgian and Abkhaz sides aimed at confidence-building. President Kuchma has also presented a feasible plan for the settlement of the Transdniestria conflict, based on the principle of “acquired status” acceptable to all conflicting parties. Ukraine, together with the OSCE, is currently examining the possibility of reorganizing the peacekeeping mission in the region, which will be made up of peacekeeping contingents from Ukraine, Russia and other OSCE members. We very much hope that in the long run these initiatives will reinvigorate the process of resolving the conflict. The credibility of the United Nations will always be measured by its ability to provide an adequate response to threats to peace and security in every region of the world. Today this principle should be upheld by giving special attention to the problems of the African continent. The untold sufferings of the peoples of Africa, resulting from both intra-State and inter-State conflicts, are unlike those in any other part of the globe. Ukraine is determined to make a practical contribution to United Nations peace efforts aimed at resolving conflicts in Africa. This determination is reinforced by our aspiration to expand trade and economic cooperation with our African partners. Let me repeat the words of the President of Ukraine at the Security Council Summit: “Ukraine looks forward to a century of African renaissance and stands ready to hasten its arrival.” (S/PV.4194, p. 13) I would like to underline that, in resolving conflicts in Africa the international community has no alternative but to promote the need for strict adherence to the principles of sovereignty, political independence and territorial integrity of the countries of the region. This has to be particularly emphasized in relation to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the most dangerous challenge to peace at the turn of the century. Ukraine calls on all parties to the Lusaka Agreement to comply fully with the relevant Security Council resolutions and to implement their own commitments. The recent events in Sierra Leone have become a serious test for our Organization. They prove the urgent need to consolidate international efforts, with a view to strengthening the effectiveness of United Nations peacekeeping. I reiterate our position on the need to continue enhancing the sanctions regime against Angola's rebel group, UNITA. We are convinced that reducing UNITA's ability to wage war is an essential prerequisite for restoring peace in Angola. It should also be borne in mind that the sanctions have to be accompanied by greater international efforts to resolve this long-lasting conflict. We note with optimism the latest developments in the process of settlement in Somalia. This long- suffering nation is painfully but steadily overcoming the obstacles in its path to peace and stability. Over the past year an important step forward was taken in advancing one of the integral parts of the Middle East peace process — its Israeli-Lebanese component. The withdrawal of Israeli troops from southern Lebanon in compliance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978) has created new conditions for further progress in the whole process. Ukraine sincerely hopes that Israel and Syria will also be able to achieve a breakthrough in their stalled negotiation process in the near future, and calls upon the parties to resume the dialogue as soon as possible. 8 We are following closely the process of solving the core issue of the Middle East problem — the question of Palestine. It is our firm belief that the political wisdom and farsightedness of the Israelis and Palestinians will eventually help them to reach a mutually acceptable compromise. We welcome the 10 September decision by the Palestinian Central Council to postpone the date of proclamation of the State of Palestine. Ukraine hopes that, following strenuous efforts on both sides, the Palestinian people will finally exercise their right to self-determination and to their own statehood. The promotion of disarmament and nuclear non- proliferation are among the crucial issues before the United Nations and the whole international community at the turn of the century. We are convinced that those processes should go along with the overall improvement of the international situation in other spheres, the creation and practical implementation of universal security guarantees, unconditional adherence by States and international organizations to the norms and basic principles of international law and the consolidation of an atmosphere of mutual trust. As a country which has made outstanding contributions to the process of practical nuclear disarmament, Ukraine fully shares the concern that the attention of the international community to this issue has substantially decreased. We believe that nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation are the cornerstones of international security and a means of averting a global conflict. In our view, achieving the universality of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty is the best way to prevent nuclear proliferation and to ensure the elimination of nuclear weapons. It is the nuclear States that should be in the vanguard of this process. The problem of illegal arms trafficking, which has acquired a global dimension, also requires a universal approach to its solution. The key role of the United Nations is indispensable in consolidating the international efforts to fight this evil. Turning now to the problem of the Security Council-imposed sanctions, I would like to reaffirm the position of my country on this issue. Sanctions were designed as a powerful tool to ensure the implementation of the Council's decisions. However, they were eventually turned into ineffective and sometimes even harmful instruments. It is therefore absolutely necessary to develop a clear and coherent methodology for the imposition and lifting of sanctions that takes into consideration the concerns of innocent civilian populations and the interests of third countries. Ukraine supports the recent Security Council practice of defining time limits of sanctions at the stage of their imposition. We believe that it is of primary importance to develop objective criteria and mechanisms for assessing the effectiveness of sanctions and their impact — including on the target State. We also support the immediate lifting of sanctions when there are sufficient grounds to believe that they have served their purpose. This is indeed the case as far as the sanctions against Libya are concerned, where the Security Council should move, as soon as possible, to the next stage and take a long-overdue action. Among the major challenges of the new century, the problem of HIV/AIDS occupies a special place. AIDS has become an epidemic of global proportions with enormous human and social ramifications that go far beyond the province of health alone. The time has come for the United Nations to elaborate a comprehensive agenda for action against this pandemic. Aware of the magnitude of this problem, the delegation of Ukraine, together with other sponsors has promoted the convening, as a matter of urgency, of a special session of the General Assembly on that question. We are encouraged by the wide support for this idea and look forward to further work towards its realization. We are convinced that the multilateral forms of international cooperation have played and will continue to play a decisive role in the attainment of the goals of sustainable development. We support the reform efforts of the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for improving the situation in the field of mobilization of resources and enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of its work. During the difficult period of economic transition, the assistance to Ukraine by UNDP plays an important role by streamlining the efforts of various international partners. It also helps to alleviate the complex problems related to the elimination of the Chernobyl disaster's consequences and the decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the countries participating in the July 9 donors' conference in Berlin, which pledged more than $320 million of additional funding for the transformation of the shelter facility into an environmentally safe system. Almost $50 million still needs to be raised to reach the amount required, and we count on continuing international assistance in this regard. I believe this could be effectuated within the framework of the United Nations Chernobyl programme. Let me underline that these funds will be aimed mainly at the implementation of realistic objectives, specifically the decommissioning and eventual closing down of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant by 15 December 2000, a decision that was reconfirmed by the President of Ukraine at the Millennium Summit. We also hope that consideration at the current session of the General Assembly of the item relating to the integration of the countries with economies in transition into the world economic system will make it possible to elaborate a common strategy to solve specific problems of these countries. In this context, we attach great importance to the accession of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization. International economic cooperation at the regional level is also of significance for Ukraine. I mean, in particular, the development of our relations with the European Union and interaction within the framework of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization and the Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Republic of Moldova (GUUAM) group. Fulfilling the concept of “human rights for all” in the next century is a task of global dimension. That is why strengthening and improving the international monitoring of human rights violations becomes particularly acute today. At the same time, we remain convinced that the use of force cannot be considered an adequate means of ensuring respect for human rights. I wish to emphasize that adherence to and protection of human rights became the key policy principle of my country. Ukraine has signed and ratified all basic international documents in the field of human rights and put in place at the national level effective mechanisms for their implementation. This year Ukraine adopted a decision to abolish capital punishment. The time that has passed since the historic Rome Conference clearly reaffirmed the epoch-making significance of the document it adopted. We consider the International Criminal Court the only viable democratic mechanism of a universal character to enforce compliance with and respect for international humanitarian law. I would like to join previous speakers in expressing our great hopes for the continuing role of the United Nations in bringing solutions to global problems. Given the complexity and the multidimensional nature of this task, our Organization needs to stand on a solid financial footing. We hope that this session will enable us to speed up the process of reforming and improving the mechanisms of the apportionment of the United Nations expenses on the basis of objective economic criteria. Therefore, the process of United Nations reform, initiated three years ago, should get additional impetus. There is also a need to reactivate the efforts aimed at Security Council reform, which is the key element within the process of renewing the United Nations. This was rightly emphasized in the statements of many world leaders at the Millennium Summit. The absence of substantive progress on this issue limits the capacities of the Council as the major instrument of collective security. I would like to reiterate the position of Ukraine that the Security Council's comprehensive reform should be based on the norms and principles of the United Nations Charter. In our view, increased representation in the Security Council for all regional groups should remain an essential principle. The interests of both developed and developing countries have to be taken into account. Ukraine believes that the necessary balance within an expanded Security Council can be achieved through an increase in both categories of its members. By pursuing the path of strengthening the United Nations and building up its institutions on democratic foundations, the international community reinforces its own capacity to meet the challenges of the time and to create a climate of justice in international relations and an atmosphere of mutual respect between States, peoples and civilizations. In the course of the historic Millennium Summit, the international community, enriched by this Organization's half-century of experience, outlined the road map to be followed by mankind in the twenty-first century. Only by intensifying concerted and resolute efforts to attain our determined goals will we realize 10 the ideals of the Charter of the United Nations. After all, this is the only raison d'être for our Organization. This is neither the place nor the time for me to repeat what my head of State and I have said in speeches regarding most of the critical national, regional and international issues. On those issues Namibia's position is unchanged, and my views remain valid. There are, however, some specific matters that I feel require reiteration. That is what I am going to do today. Not too long ago in these corridors, an unprecedented 150 heads of State and Government participated in the historic Millennium Summit, which was appropriately dubbed “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. The Millennium Declaration, which was the result of that concerted effort to meet the daunting challenges of this century with boldness and courage and in a truly global united front, is destined take its place alongside the 7 Charter of the United Nations as one of the most seminal documents of all time. In responding to the peoples' fervent clarion call to redefine and vigorously support the United Nations mandates and programmes, and to meet the challenges of HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases that threaten to decimate our populations while leaving millions of others too weak to derive value from life, the world leaders undertook before the whole world to save humanity from the scourge of war, fear and want. The citizens of the world paid witness to the sober promises of the Millennium Summit. They wait in earnest for Member States to make good on the pledges made in the Millennium Declaration. They, the peoples, as our ultimate constituencies, are indeed the ones we must serve. However, they are sceptical because of failures to make good on previous pledges. Yet they expect us to implement the undertakings we made at the Summit, committing whatever resources of material or of the heart are called for. For our part, therefore, we must find the collective political will to mobilize the necessary resources to implement the commitments. We must also reconnect with the passion that drove the leaders of the world, determined to spare humanity the devastation of war and deprivation, to found the United Nations. In responding to this clarion call, Member States must forge a new global partnership between the wealthy and powerful nations and those whose present circumstances leave them mired in the seemingly intractable maze of a merry-go-round type of development. The North must be gracious and generous, and give enough of what has been acquired from global resources to assist poor and weak countries to help propel them into the orbit of sustainable and irreversible social and economic growth. For its part, the South must not only take sober stock of our present challenges, but also devote energy and creativity to genuinely engage all our countries in a common effort at social development and human security. To do so, we must rise above the temptation to settle scores through armed conflict; place the will and genius of our peoples at the helm of national reconstruction; and give prominence to the credo written in stone on the wall which adorns the courtyard adjacent to the General Assembly, to turn our swords into ploughshares. It is the marriage of this dual commitment of the wealthy and strong, and the presently poor and weak nations, which carries in its womb the child of a new world, aglow in global peace, development and prosperity. Alongside the Millennium Summit were other major activities of great importance at the United Nations and elsewhere in New York. The Security Council conducted its own high-level consultations, culminating in a categorical commitment, especially to Africa, towards development, peace and security on the continent. The conference of presiding officers of the world's parliaments resolved to work closely with the United Nations in pursuit of people-centred goals. The World Peace Summit, which brought together religious leaders from practically all faiths, in its declaration on a commitment to global peace, in addition to recognizing gender equality, declared all religions to be equal and condemned any violence perpetrated in the name of religion. The non-governmental organizations, which in their summit earlier in May had called for a global solidarity in which corporations would demonstrate a greater sense of social responsibility, especially in the pursuit of the benefits of globalization, reaffirmed their advocacy for social change in their Department of Public Information/Non- Governmental Organization Forum in August. Together, participants in all these gatherings sought to help redefine the pivotal role of the United Nations and all other world organizations in the new millennium in uplifting the peoples of the world. The active role of grass-roots organizations, both in their own conference and in their interaction with all the other conferences, is a clear sign that “We the Peoples” are actually now firmly reclaiming our legitimate right to be heard wherever States are discussing a new beginning in human relations and the future of the United Nations — our common House. Bearing this in mind, the world's leaders made a special commitment to Africa to implement special measures to address the challenges of poverty eradication and sustainable development through such actions as debt cancellation, increased investment and greater access to markets and technology. All human footprints start with the first lonely step. We had witnessed a robust and generous spirit of teamwork on the part of Member States in preparing for the General Assembly's Millennium Summit and galvanizing a partnership for a successful outcome. In the fullness of time, it all came together, and we got it right, to the satisfaction of all. It was collaboration 8 rather than competition. Thorns and all, what a beautiful rose it turned out to be. In Africa, we say that no one man can put his hands around a baobab tree. It requires many hands joined together to form a circle around that proverbial tree. I thank all my collaborators. We are all winners, and the integrity of the United Nations does not just remain intact, but is enhanced. I remember, though, what my President and Co-Chairperson of the Millennium Summit, Mr. Sam Nujoma, stressed in his closing statement: “[W]e have adopted a historic Declaration with a vision for the future ... The Declaration in itself will not put bread on [the] tables [of the peoples of the world], stop the wars, erase poverty ... We cannot, therefore, afford to go back home from here and continue business as usual.” (A/55/PV.8) That is the question and, indeed, the challenge for the United Nations and the global community. His counterpart, the President of Finland, Ms. Tarja Halonen, echoed those sentiments in her own closing speech. Sir, against the backdrop of those profound circumstances and events relating to the Millennium Summit, we welcome a fortunate coincidence which has set the stage for your unanimous election as President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, together with the eminent members of your Bureau. I congratulate you all warmly and assure you of Namibia's steadfast cooperation. In my acceptance speech of 14 September 1999, I complained about a creeping but steady derogation of the General Assembly's functions and powers, contrary to the letter and spirit of the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. This situation has hardly changed for the better during the past year. If anything, the encroachment has intensified. I have therefore decided to speak up, so that we no longer take things for granted in the ensuing months. I found the Office of the President of the General Assembly to be the main target of this unacceptable denigration. In the animal kingdom, the predator goes for the head or the jugular to incapacitate its prey. Well, that seems to be the case here as well. For some time now — prior to my tenure of office — we had been discussing practical ways and means of strengthening the Office of the President to ensure its capacity and effectiveness. In light of this, I would suggest – subject, of course, to the President's disposition – an early planning meeting involving the President, the Chairman of the Fifth Committee and the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions to review this situation and to act upon what has already been agreed, including adequate resources for the Office of the President. No President of the General Assembly should be subjected to the whims of faceless bureaucrats as if he or she were asking for personal favours. In this context, two key paragraphs in the Millennium Declaration are apropos. First, paragraph 30 underscores the commitment to “reaffirm the central position of the General Assembly as the chief deliberative, policy- making and representative organ of the United Nations, and to enable it to play that role effectively”. (resolution 55/2, para. 30) This is a clear and categorical reaffirmation of the centrality of the Assembly, notwithstanding the existing and desirable division of labour or complementary functions among the principal organs. Secondly, in paragraph 31, the heads of State and Government collectively state: “We request the General Assembly to review on a regular basis the progress made in implementing the provisions of this Declaration, and ask the Secretary-General to issue periodic reports for consideration by the General Assembly and as a basis for further action.” (ibid., para. 31) I would make another suggestion. Under the President's authority, the Bureau should act as an executive arm of the Office of the President, superintending the work of the Assembly and interacting vertically with the heads of the other United Nations bodies. We always have a solid team in the Bureau consisting of the President, 21 Vice-Presidents and the Chairpersons of the six Main Committees for this crucial task. I was privileged to have a team of able ambassadors and, at times, even higher personalities assisting me, to all of whom I remain grateful. The Bureau should be formalized as a political mechanism. What we should be striving for is 9 a formalized system of regular consultations and better coordination of mandates and action in which the right hand knows what the left hand is doing at all times. While I will leave these hallowed halls soon and return to my duties as Namibia's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Information and Broadcasting, my heart and soul will always be walking the routines of the General Assembly. Namibia's celebrated case for self- determination, freedom and achievement of independence and the greater part of my own personal story — perhaps a bit unlike that of any of my predecessors as Assembly Presidents — are written on these majestic walls. Indeed, it is actually here and nowhere else that one can appreciate the roots and the systemic evolution of the United Nations itself. Now I want to express some views of my own about the latest buzzword: globalization. In the process, I will also respond to what some say – that the peoples of the third world should not run away in fright from globalization. Frankly speaking, globalization is merely a new name for an old, cruel and unjust system which was imposed willy-nilly upon the peoples of the third world in the past. Globalization is at least 500 years old in the case of Africa. As someone bluntly put it, “globalization is the reformation of what we used to call capitalist imperialism”. That is what he said; I think he has a point. That globalization forcibly introduced the iniquities of the slave trade, colonial oppression, the dispossession of land, racial bigotry and the destruction of our precious lives and cultures is a matter of historical record. We cannot be blamed for harbouring painful memories of the marauding usurpers from Europe peddling the virtues of a civilizing mission. Those uninvited intruders anchored their merchant ships along the coast and put up their foreign flags. Next, millions of people ended up dead, others were shipped off to the diaspora, while the rest became victims of a brutal system of colonialism. That, too, is a matter of record. The more the benefits of globalization are advertised, the more all of it sounds hypocritical and self-serving. Nobody is suggesting that we must run away from globalization. At the same time, we will keep reminding ourselves of the lessons of history lest we forget the ultimate truth that the lion will not lie down with the lamb. Mind you, industrialization was not bloodless or painless either. If perchance globalization is to have genuine efficacy, then we in the third world, who constitute by far the majority of the globe, must infuse it with our own vision, our wisdom, our sense of equity and fair play, the essence of the hard lessons we have learned from our history and experience. In such an eventuality, we will have to redesign the basic paradigm of globalization. On the one hand, it is said that many African States are at risk of missing out on the opportunities offered by globalization; on the other hand, Africans are repeatedly being told to find answers themselves to African problems. Well, which is it? This was never actually said about any other continent or peoples at their worst hour of imminent disaster. I must confess that I do not know how Europe survived the black plague, which decimated its population, killing many hundreds of thousands. But I know, at least, something about contemporary European history of the past 50 years. I think of the devastation and misery in that continent after the Second World War. Concerted political will, massive resources and a gigantic plan of action were put in place to save Europe. It was the famous Marshall Plan that we Africans were forced to read about in schools that did it. Europe was pulled back from a precipice because of that comprehensive and coordinated action of solidarity and today is building a strong Union together. It is clear that there was no idea of abandoning Europe to its own fate. But it was not only that. There is another instructive example, that of the remarkable Alliance for Progress. That laudable initiative helped Latin America to emerge from an economic and social morass and restored in the people an empowering confidence for the future. Today, we see the great Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) and other important regional economic and trade groupings fostering economic growth, full employment and the generation of wealth for the benefit all in that vital part of the world. For me, that represents the true meaning of human brotherhood and “prosper thy neighbour”. Africa's key Western cooperating partners should not hold the view that those two examples are unique circumstances from the remote past or that they are far removed from the hardships and misery that Africa and its peoples are facing today. Only when pledges made by world leaders are translated into concrete programmes and substantial 10 resources are made available to achieve the time-bound targets set by the Millennium Summit can we in Africa take comfort in and draw strength from the recent inspiring commitments. Alhough nobility of mind is a necessary prelude to magnanimity, performance is the only vindication of its efficacy. This is because human beings are not known for mental quantum leaps, disregarding embedded social consciousness. Humans tend to hold on to painful memories and to keep reminding their tormentors of their obligation. Hence, the persistent demands in Africa, in Europe, in Asia and in other places for atonement, reparations and compensation and insistence on the return of all stolen cultural artworks, precious relics and sacred icons from abroad to their place of origin — lock, stock and barrel. Africans, who were wronged more than, or at least as much as, any other group of people, are legitimately entitled to justice on political, legal, and humanitarian grounds. Now is the time to settle that unfinished business and moral deficit. My good friend said the other day that the best form of diplomacy is to tell the truth. I have some truthful things I want to direct to my own camp — the third world. My remarks will be of a general nature and will likely annoy some of my friends. But in Africa, candour, no matter how distressing it can sometimes be, is not only a form of democracy, but also a language for protecting and strengthening the family. So I am sure that they, too, will understand, because all of it comes from my heart. I believe we urgently need to review our priorities and map out a new strategy in order to effectively, and in unity, deal with the battles ahead. Once again, we must stand up for our legitimate and just rights. My brother Foreign Minister from a small Caribbean State has pointed out that “there are new forms of war currently being waged on the small, the weak and the vulnerable” in the countries of the South. While this is a confirmation of the obvious, the situation is quite serious. Ironically, in the South we are waging unconscionable and destructive wars against one another, militarily invading and occupying neighbouring States under the pretext of security or alleged historical reasons. In the process, we create, by omission or by commission, convenient troubled waters for outsiders to fish in. Nations are burning, and peoples are dying from bullets, hunger and infectious diseases at the same time. We are destroying ourselves. This must stop. We really have nobody to blame but ourselves. Rationalizations and excuses made after a fait accompli stink to high heaven. We must regroup and concentrate on development, poverty eradication, regional cooperation and integration. We have agreed to promote a culture of peace, to practise tolerance and to enlarge opportunities for peaceful coexistence. The Havana South Summit and its plan of action gave us an impetus to push ahead in unity and solidarity for our common survival. The people are tired of war; they want food security and life-saving human progress. They want creative leisure and the right to a coherent and planned future for their families and themselves, devoid of fear and heart-rending traumas of violence. We have before us the current report of the Working Group — the full title is unduly cumbersome — which, for more than six years now, has been dealing with the reform and increase in the membership of the Security Council. When the report is debated, Namibia will give its specific views on its content. Suffice it for me to take this opportunity to heartily commend and congratulate Ambassadors John de Saram of Sri Lanka and Hans Dahlgren of Sweden, who served as Vice-Chairmen under my leadership, for their total devotion and hard work that produced that thoughtful report. I strongly urge Member States to read the report carefully and reflect on the constructive proposals that are offered in it. While the negotiations on reform must continue, and given the fact that we now have a much clearer picture in respect of the specific open questions, we should revisit the earlier — all or nothing — “package deal” approach. The reform process cannot just continue ad infinitum. It was by no means meant to become an end in itself. We ought to take a cue from the urgings of the world leaders to move on and show concrete progress as soon as possible. The emphasis on the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century necessarily means that we complete the overall reform without further delay, so that the United Nations can perform that role effectively. For the developing countries, the hour is already too late. We have nothing to gain by dragging our feet. I would like also, in just a few words, to express my astonishment about the contradictory comments that I heard recently about the question of good governance. Domestically, in the developing countries, good governance has been turned into a sort of a rigid dogma by foreign Powers. But when we call for rapid democratization of and transparency in international relations, open trade and financial rules and good governance, they simply ignore our views willy-nilly. What do we make of this paradox? At least we have now agreed that there is no commonly accepted definition and practice of good governance anywhere. This was established during the consultations for the Millennium Summit's preparations. It is therefore better for us from now on to put more emphasis on transparent and accountable governance, based on the rule of law, while we continue debating its essential properties that are acceptable to all. At this stage, I will touch on some issues that require reiterating for clarity's sake. To begin with, South-North dialogue encompasses a broad field, from political and diplomatic exchanges through trade, poverty eradication, investment, technology, industrialization, capacity-building and financing for development to the empowering of people. A recent cover story in Time magazine featured our esteemed Secretary-General. It called him a dreamer. But, to my mind, in today's world of doomed pragmatists and cynics who try to defy any belief in the possibility of a better world for all of us, how refreshing it is that the United Nations is led by an African who is not afraid to dream! In a variation on the lyrics of a popular song, what the world needs now are bold dreamers whose knowledge of the challenges to humanity cannot be questioned, but who believe in the capacity of men and women to rise above their best, to move even farther beyond the horizons of human capability. That said, questions relating to development, politics, economics, finance and security unavoidably overlap. So also do the challenges of world peace, human rights, human development and human security, social change and prosperity. We cannot, therefore, avoid stressing inclusive and interdependent global governance that militates against war, fear and want. Only in this way will all of us be able to partake together in a culture of peace, dialogue, sharing and the common advancement of humanity. In such a kinder and inclusive world that we wish to live in, a dreadful notion of humanitarian intervention, by whatever name, does not fit in. Many of us expressed strong reactions against it as a dangerous idea when it surfaced last year. Namibia remains unconvinced and will continue to oppose any form of unilateral humanitarian intervention outside the Charter. Whether we like it or not, this is still a world of diktat by the rich and the powerful against the poor, the weak and the vulnerable. The South is incapable of initiating any humanitarian intervention in the North. But the reverse is not only possible; it can be an ominous certainty. Can Kuwait, Cyprus, Saint Lucia or Namibia really dare launch any humanitarian intervention anywhere in the world? They just cannot. Quite simply, in a world of lopsided military might, humanitarian intervention is yet another code-name for colonization. This issue is on the agenda and will no doubt be debated again in the Assembly. Namibia will air its strong views when we come to that. The Charter shows the best way forward to ensure the maintenance of international peace and security. What we, the Member States, should concentrate on, therefore, is to speed up the tardy process of reforming, restructuring and democratizing our Organization the better to pursue its lofty goals and to implement the resolutions and decisions that enjoy overwhelming consensus. This, in a way, brings up the excellent and timely Brahimi report (A/55/305) on United Nations peace operations. The report constitutes a major building block which can provide a basis for discussing and resolving all relevant issues and ideas for concerted efforts in the field of preventive diplomacy, conflict resolution and all other challenges and problems of peacekeeping and peace-building. The next subject I want to deal with is the recently signed United Nations Global Compact with transnational corporations, this time initiated by the United Nations. We in Namibia, a country which actively promotes smart partnerships and win-win outcomes for government and business, labour and other key players in civil society, see this move as a welcome beginning. However, as is said, trust but verify. Not too long ago the United Nations used to maintain at Headquarters a watchdog centre for transnational corporations to monitor their nefarious global activities and sinister dirty tricks against the 12 interests of the people. It was closed down for reasons not yet known. Many of us from the developing countries ought to remember the call by our leaders in the 1970s for a new international economic order and what became of it. The United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations was a sincere undertaking to establish a data bank and provide Member States with relevant information for follow-up and decision-making. The call for a new international economic order was the South's version of globalization. Yet our leaders were discredited and the initiative itself was unceremoniously killed. Its replacement is already wreaking havoc on our slender prospects for meaningful economic autonomy. Today, out there in the real world, many armies of grassroots organizations and progressive trade unions are back again on the streets demanding the democratization of international economic and trade relations, transparency, accountability, justice and fair play for the poor, the weak and the vulnerable. This is not a passing wave, but a telling sign of things yet to come. The United Nations should, therefore, avoid being caught in the middle of the crossfire. The situation requires vigilance and leadership to ensure that the corporations do not entangle the Organization in their unsavoury dealings, as some of them are already being accused of doing. I am aware of the written commitments, agreed rules and broad principles in the Compact. But that is one thing. That aside, this is only the beginning, and things will perhaps go wrong down the road. I myself encouraged constructive partnership between the United Nations and the private sector. That does not mean, however, that all that glitters is gold. One more matter of deep interest to my country, and indeed to Africa, is information and communication technology — ICT. The information and communication technology revolution is the most significant social, political and economic phenomenon since the Industrial Revolution. Its ability to transform societies is commonly acknowledged. Several weeks ago the Economic and Social Council summit, held here at United Nations Headquarters, focused totally on it. Yet, ironically, and to some extent in an uncanny way, this economic panacea has been presented to Africa not as a tool for self-development and jump- starting global competitiveness, but as yet another “crime of incapacity” used to further overburden an already embattled people. Our challenge, the challenge to all of us here, and to all those who have had a head start in mobilizing this new capacity for the creation of wealth and a better world, is: what can we do, what must we do, to enable Africa and other developing countries to gain access to the tools of information and communication technology, so that we can take ownership of our own social development and achieve full employment and prosperity? Those who control this powerhouse must act quickly and generously to share the benefits of this magic wand, especially since the sons and daughters of Africa and of the developing world are in fact among the major players in creating this new knowledge. To those who may begrudge Africa's access to information and communication technology, I say, “Just think: if information and communication technology enables Africa to create wealth rather than manage poverty, then in a few years Africa will be so developed that you will no longer have to endure the guilt of turning us away from your front steps.” In thanking the Secretary-General and his loyal Deputy, Ms. Louise Frechette, for their unstinting support and encouragement, I would be remiss if I did not also mention the General Assembly's chief stewards and staff members for their expertise and hard work. I extend the same sentiments to the security and protocol officers for rendering such outstanding professional services. My heartfelt gratitude goes to one and all. In conclusion, for Namibia the year 2000 brought rededication to service, celebration and thanksgiving. It meant awesome responsibilities in the General Assembly, including during the Millennium Summit; in the Security Council; in the World Health Assembly; and lately in the chairmanship of the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC), our subregional body. One needs allies, friends and partners for all this to happen, and we are lucky to have many of them throughout the world. We sincerely express our immense indebtedness to all of them. I know that I have been long-winded. I had a few things to say. 13  It was by unanimous vote that our Assembly elected our President to be in charge of our work. Whereas we are already aware of his professional skills and his human qualities, may I take the liberty of congratulating him and assuring him of the support and the cooperation of the delegation of Chad to assist him in performing this difficult but very inspiring task. His predecessor, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of fraternal Namibia, very tactfully and effectively guided the work which was entrusted to him during the fifty-fourth session. He is now deserving of our congratulations. Our words of congratulations and our encouragement are likewise addressed to our brother, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose devotion to the cause of peace and development in the world undoubtedly represents a guarantee for the success of our Organization. Last year during a visit to the headquarters of the United Nations Development Programme in New York, the President of the Republic of Chad, His Excellency Mr. Idriss Deby, declared: “A new world is being built before our very eyes. New standards are being set which are giving lasting shape to the behaviours of individuals and relations among States. New technologies are pressing us forward to even greater progress in those societies which possess them. Those which are closed to change are being marginalized, since they are incapable of making their ambitions come to life in the context of the new world. This frightening prospect, since it is synonymous with being left behind, is very real for many developing countries. But, I reject this prospect for my country.” The President of the Republic is here referring specifically to a world which is in constant change because of rampant globalization, which has become a fact of life that is sometimes highly praised for its benefits and sometimes shunned because of the harm it does. Meanwhile in Chad, men and women are doing everything they can to derive benefit from globalization and to avoid the downside in order not to miss the train of political, economic, social and technological progress. In other words, faced with the threat that globalization represents to stability, security and development of the weaker, Chad is waging an out and out struggle to occupy its proper place in the concert of nations. Yes, the men and women of Chad are struggling courageously and with resolve to emerge from obscurantism, from poverty and from domination. The results of their daily struggle speak for themselves when you look at what has been achieved in the various 36 areas of national life. Politically, the democratic experiment which began on 1 December 1990 is being further developed and consolidated. Thus, political pluralism is functioning while respecting diversity on the basis of consensual and participatory democracy. The various fundamental freedoms which underlie and which breathe life into any democratic political system are being fully exercised. The freedom of expression of the private press, which gives no quarter in its criticism of the action of the Government, as well as the burgeoning of associations of civil society, particularly those dealing with human rights, young people and women, bears witness to the political determination of the Government of Chad to promote a culture of democracy. In this connection, particular attention should be paid to strengthening the role of women in public life, as well as the rights of and the protection of children. Likewise, through the establishment of a supreme court, a constitutional council and a superior council of judges, the final touches have been put on the judicial institutions that underpin our democratic system. Furthermore, I am pleased to recall that the first multi- party elections took place in Chad in 1996 in a climate of calm and transparency, as the international observers noted. The next elections will take place in six months. In general, the political authorities in Chad are doing all they can to ensure their success. I would therefore like to emphasize from this rostrum that Chad's attachment to pluralistic democracy cannot be unseated, because the people of Chad as a whole are profoundly convinced that this is the only way — indeed their unique opportunity — to improve their living conditions. The most recent meetings in Syrte, Libya, and the various declarations made by Chadian political actors are all encouraging signs that, as we would like, this attachment is firm. In all events, the Government of Chad welcomes these new arrangements, which are to be seen as part and parcel of the policy of outreach that has been advocated by His Excellency Mr. Idriss Deby, the President of the Republic of Chad. After gaining this hard-won peace and this firm attachment to democracy, the Government of Chad quite naturally then proceeded — with the support of international institutions and Chad's bilateral partners — to tackle the question of economic and social development. A genuine plan to fight poverty has been created. This plan includes the elaboration of a national strategy for the reduction of poverty. This strategy has been further strengthened by the fact that the objectives of poverty reduction and economic growth during the 2000-2002 period have been made part of the major, high-priority social and sectoral programmes that were adopted at the Geneva IV round table on the development of Chad. Part of this struggle against poverty is the struggle that the people of Chad have waged to complete the project for the extraction and export of its oil. This success was achieved thanks to the determination of the President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Idriss Deby — but also thanks to unflagging support of the Bretton Woods institutions and of friends and other partners of Chad. Here we would like these supporters to know that the Government and people of the Republic of Chad recognize and are grateful for their assistance. Chad nevertheless does not see its development — and even less its security and stability — in an isolated fashion. Therefore Chad is doing everything possible to make its contribution to creating a climate of peace and prosperity in Africa — particularly in Central Africa. The subregion of Central Africa — despite its immense potential, and perhaps because of this immense potential, I might add — now appears to be the region of upheaval par excellence, a region characterized by armed conflicts and crises of all sorts. Undoubtedly some hotbeds of tension have been slaked. This is true of the Central African Republic and of the Republic of the Congo, which are gradually regaining their stability. But this stability remains fragile. The international community therefore must help these countries to consolidate this peace by actions in support of reconstruction and assistance. Two other conflicts, unfortunately, persist and also dangerously threaten the subregion. One of these is the conflict occurring in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the belligerents' failure to respect the Lusaka Agreement has unfortunately resulted in exacerbating the rivalries among the foreign forces in the Congolese territory, further complicating the situation and holding up the effective implementation of that Agreement. As far as the Angolan conflict is concerned, it has certainly become even more complex because of its duration, the resources that nurture it and all the 37 international complicity that Mr. Jonas Savimbi has taken advantage of. But we must support the efforts of the legitimate and legal Government of Angola, as well as the efforts of the international community, so that this long-suffering people can recover the peace and tranquillity that they have not known since they acceded to independence. In the framework of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, the States of this subregion have not remained inactive. They are devoting themselves to exploring ways and means of establishing peace and tranquillity through measures designed first and foremost to create trust among themselves. The first of these steps is the possibility offered by the periodic meetings of the Committee. These provide an opportunity for political dialogue in the interest of preventive diplomacy. For having created this Committee, the Security Council is deserving of our gratitude. Furthermore, structures and mechanisms to promote peace and stability are gradually being established. Among others, we might note the establishment of an early-warning mechanism in Libreville and of the subregional centre for human rights and democracy in Yaoundé. The creation of the Council for Peace and Security in Central Africa is under way with the signing, by the heads of State or Government, on 24 February at Malabo, Equatorial Guinea, of the protocol regarding this Council and the mutual assistance pact. In the area of security there is a plan to organize a joint military exercise for the peacekeeping operations of the armed forces of the States of the subregion. As for the other contributor to instability — the proliferation of small arms and light weapons — the member States held a subregional conference on this topic in N'Djamena in October 1999. A number of measures were advocated; among them, we might mention the project of “arms for development”, which was initiated by Canada and certain donor countries — a project that is intended to set up micro-projects to help those who turn in their arms. For the time being this project involves the areas along the borders of Cameroon, the Central African Republic and Chad. In this connection, a mission of evaluation visited the countries concerned in July 2000. The initiative is only at the conceptual stage, but it is to be hoped that it will take concrete form as soon as possible. I would therefore like to make an appeal to the other partners to join with Canada in order to broaden the scope of these projects to include the entire subregion. Instability and insecurity in Central Africa are also among the major causes of refugee flows, a phenomenon that has spared no State. Aware as we are of the negative effects of this phenomenon, member States took this matter up during a conference that was held last August in Bujumbura. The relevant conclusions of this conference deserve to be supported. The political situations in other subregions of the African continent also concern us. Certainly there has been a definite improvement with the consolidation of democratic institutions, good governance and respect for the fundamental rights of the African people. Nevertheless, several crises are persisting and must be a subject of concern for the entire international community. Thus in West Africa, Sierra Leone has not yet achieved peace, despite the commitments entered into by the parties to the conflict. Chad, for its part, gives its total support to the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations to seek peace in this embattled country. Likewise, we have every confidence in ECOWAS to smooth out the difficulties between Liberia and Guinea. With regard to the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, His Excellency President Idriss Deby has personally dealt with this matter as current President of the Community of the Sahel and Saharan States by setting up a good offices mission to the leaders of the two fraternal countries, in support of the mediation by the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The Government of Chad is very pleased to see that the two parties have finally reached a peace agreement. We encourage them to respect their individual commitments in order to bring lasting peace to this part of the African continent. Regarding the Somali crisis, Chad welcomes the fact that the people of Somalia have awakened to their destiny through the recent conference of national reconciliation which was held in Alta, Djibouti, thus demonstrating courage and imagination in their determination to endow their countries with republican institutions. The international community must help them and encourage them to build further on this initiative in order to reach total and just peace. 38 The presence here of a delegation bearing the name of the Republic of Somalia, whose seat has been vacant for almost 10 years now, is a matter of pride and satisfaction for the friends and the partners of this fraternal people. It is an example that should edify our brothers of the Comoros and Burundi. We should also congratulate the Government of Djibouti for their contribution and devotion to the cause of peace in the subregion. We believe it is time to lift completely the embargo against the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, because it is no longer justified and arbitrarily penalizes the fraternal Libyan people and, indeed, beyond them the entire subregion. Chad has not lost sight of the crisis situations prevailing in other parts of the world. In the Middle East, it is following with interest the negotiations underway between the Palestinian and Israeli authorities and believes that the time for the peace of the worthy has now come. The parties to the conflict should seize this historic opportunity and, as President Clinton said: the world should help them to take the risk of embarking on peace. In Iraq, Chad believes it is urgent to put an end to the embargo whose consequences have been so disastrous for the civilian population, which is suffering the atrocious evils resulting from this unjust decision. Quite clearly any solution should also cover the very pertinent matter of the prisoners from Kuwait and other countries. The Korean peninsula is showing encouraging signs of the two fraternal countries drawing closer to each other. The historic inter-Korean Summit, which took place between the leaders of these countries last June, has laid the foundation for trusting relationships that are so central for any dialogue. The international community should encourage both of these countries to press on in order to eventually sign a peace agreement which would pave the way to peaceful coexistence. The inter-Korean dialogue might also arouse some interest on the part of the Taiwan Strait where tension unfortunately continues to be abnormally high. Whereas economic and trade relations between the two countries are being developed on a regular basis, political relations are non-existent, despite the fact that on both sides of the Strait semi-official structures have been set up which serve as channels of communication between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China, Taiwan. Both parties should show political determination and imagination in exploring ways and means of reducing tension and opening a genuine dialogue. In all events, the international community is duty bound to reconsider the whole question of admitting the Republic of China, Taiwan to membership of our Organization, particularly in light of the weight and the importance of the economic role it plays internationally and the fact that it is so closely involved in actions for development and the reduction of poverty. For its part, the Government of Chad supports the request by the Republic of China, Taiwan, to seek membership in the United Nations and its specialized agencies. I could not conclude my remarks without referring to other ills which undermine and sap all the development efforts of countries like mine. These ills include indebtedness, protectionist measures in the markets of the northern countries, deterioration in the terms of trade and various kinds of trafficking. Those countries which hold the key to the solutions to all these ills, particularly the northern countries, must go beyond simple declarations of intention and take concrete steps to relieve countries from the burden of indebtedness, to throw open their markets and to pay a fair price for our exports. As if this were not enough, another evil which is even more insidious and devastating, has made our task even more difficult. The prospects for solution are remote indeed and it is to be feared that this will reduce to nothing our hopes to relieve our peoples of poverty. I refer to the HIV/AIDS pandemic which brings death and bereavement to families on a daily basis. Not only is it a burden for our meagre financial resources, but also on our human resources, particularly young people who are the spearhead of our nation. We have the collective responsibility to effectively mobilize ways and means to conquer this scourge which defies the entire international community as a time when there is so much technological and scientific progress being made. 39 In the light of all these challenges, Chad believes that its development should also benefit from the political and economic integration of Africa, which is an important and determinant dimension of this global village. Therefore we would welcome and salute the major political acts which have been taken by the Conference of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) on 12 July in Lomé: I refer to the adoption of the Constituent Act of the African Union. This major historic event, which is the result of a collective commitment on the part of the African peoples, is a responsible reply on the part of today's Africa to meet the number of challenges of the twenty- first century by means of political, economic and social integration. The African Union will create the necessary conditions for genuine partnership in irreversible globalization, but a globalization that would not be synonymous with exclusion and the dictatorship of the marketplace. This globalization, we believe, should be synonymous with sharing and openness. It should have a human face or it will not exist at all. But none of this can be achieved without further democratization of the United Nations starting with an enlargement of the Security Council so that it can be more effective and, particularly, more legitimate. In other words, it is in our interest — in the interest of us all — that the Security Council be more representative of the international community in whose name it claims to act. What we are referring to here is the credibility of its decisions which, unfortunately, have long been used against the weaker with its policy of double standards. ﻿First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your assumption of your important position. I would also like to welcome Tuvalu as a new Member of the United Nations. Norway is committed to a strong and effective United Nations. For decades, we have pursued a policy of translating our commitment to the United Nations into substantial contributions to the various activities of the United Nations system. That is why some 60,000 Norwegians have served in United Nations peacekeeping operations. That is why Norway today contributes 1,500 military and civilian personnel to United Nations and United Nations-mandated peacekeeping operations around the world. That is why we are supporting the peace and reconciliation efforts of the United Nations in the Middle East, Colombia, Cyprus and Sudan. And that is why a relatively small country of 4.5 million inhabitants is one of the largest donors of voluntary contributions to the economic, social and humanitarian programmes of the United Nations. This year, Norway is providing $1.3 billion dollars for development cooperation. My Government plans to increase that amount substantially over the next few years. A large part of that will be channelled through the United Nations system. At the first session of the General Assembly in the twenty-first century, and after the successful Millennium Assembly last week, it is time to take stock and act upon the decisions we have made. Here is what Norway will give priority to in the time ahead. We will focus on the root causes of conflict and put the fight against poverty, underdevelopment and environmental degradation at the top of our agenda. Financing for development is essential. Norway reached the 0.7 per cent target more than 20 years ago. We are currently devoting 0.9 per cent of our gross national product for official development assistance, and my Government has pledged to reach a full one per cent. We will increase our support through the multilateral development agencies, including our 6 support to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). We will continue to advocate a more comprehensive approach to peace-building. Conflict prevention, humanitarian relief and long-term development cannot be regarded as separate tasks. They must be part of an integrated and coherent strategy of human security. We will continue to combat malaria, tuberculosis and other diseases. Malaria alone takes two lives every minute of every day of every year, mainly those of children and pregnant women. We will significantly increase our contribution to the vaccination of children, so that they do not die of easily curable diseases. We will intensify our efforts to help contain and reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, which in many countries has become the single largest threat to development. We will focus even more strongly on Africa, as Africa needs a new and better deal. We call for a renewed commitment to Africa and are prepared to contribute substantially to this effort. The United Nations has mounted more peace operations during the last 10 years than during the previous four decades combined. We have witnessed significant successes, but also uncovered disturbing and tragic weaknesses. Far too often and frequently at great cost to the people we were supposed to protect the United Nations has relied on last-minute efforts and ad hoc arrangements. The rich and powerful Member States must honour their promises to the weak and defenceless. Norway supports the recommendations in the report of the United Nations Panel on Peace Operations, headed by Ambassador Brahimi. We stand ready to engage in a broad dialogue on how to ensure the speedy and efficient implementation of the recommendations contained in the Brahimi report. Together with our partners, we will push forward towards non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We will work for further reductions in nuclear arsenals with a view to eliminating them, building on the important results of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) Review Conference here in New York. We will continue to combat illicit trade and the spread of small arms. We should make full use of the opportunity provided by the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects to take firm steps to curtail this deadly traffic. None of this can be done, however, if we do not secure a sound financial basis for the United Nations itself. We must put United Nations finances on a more secure and predictable footing. We must close the gap between the tasks we ask the United Nations to carry out and the resources we make available to it. Zero growth is clearly not sufficient. We cannot expect the United Nations to carry out new and additional tasks without additional funding. No one must be allowed to commit war crimes or crimes against humanity with impunity. Norway therefore strongly supports the Statute establishing an International Criminal Court. Now we must seek its speedy implementation. To effectively meet our common challenges, we must build new partnerships between the United Nations, civil society and the private sector. The Global Compact' is one such initiative. The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization' (GAVI) is another. Early next year Norway will host an international conference in Oslo on the role of the private sector in promoting investment and economic development in the least developed countries. We will continue to support efforts to enable developing countries to take full advantage of the benefits of multilateral cooperation. In particular, we would like to assist the least developed countries including small island developing States to benefit more fully from joint international efforts, including the legal regime for the seas and oceans established by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Globalization provides opportunities for unprecedented growth, but it can also lead to marginalization and isolation. In our globalized world, markets have become global much faster than politics. There is an urgent need to adapt the international trading and financial systems so that every country can obtain its fair share of the benefits of globalization. In our shrinking world, providing humanitarian aid and emergency relief to people in need is the responsibility of every Government. Norway will increase its humanitarian efforts which are already among the most intensive in the world both 7 bilaterally and through United Nations agencies and non-governmental organizations. We will to the best of our ability continue to facilitate peace efforts in countries where the parties to a conflict request our involvement. Ultimately, however, the responsibility for lasting peace rests with the parties themselves. Finally, we reiterate our call for reform and enlargement of the Security Council in terms of both permanent and non-permanent members. Broader membership and increased transparency are essential to the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Council. For the first time since 1979, Norway is seeking a seat on the Security Council. We hope to be elected, after 22 years, based on our contributions to the United Nations and on the principles of fair rotation. We therefore ask for the support of the Assembly. Norway will deeply respect a mandate from the Assembly. We will be attentive to its voices and concerns. We will remain committed to help those who suffer from poverty and war, disasters and famine to place a strong United Nations at the centre of world affairs, to ensure that those who have the strongest backs bear the heaviest burden. We ask the Assembly to allow us to serve all Members.Allow me first of all to congratulate you very warmly, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. The Moroccan delegation will spare no effort in giving you every support to ensure the success of your work. I would also like to thank your predecessor and to wish him every success in his responsibilities. I also cannot fail to pay a very warm and special tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who has led the Organization with such conviction, tenacity and competence. I take this opportunity to congratulate him on his efforts to ensure the success of the Millennium Summit. I also wish to convey my congratulations to the State of Tuvalu, which recently joined membership of the United Nations. Multilateral relations have become the most realistic approach to transnational problems in a world undergoing the process of globalization. It is quite clear that a collective response is more necessary now than ever before in our approach to the serious problems of today's world. It is obvious that no country or group of countries can claim to be able to take sole charge of the numerous problems of besetting the comity of nations. When we consider nuclear proliferation, weapons of mass destruction, the deterioration of the environment, endemic poverty, organized transnational crime, the drug problem and other such problems, we are compelled to recognize the scope of the strenuous efforts that will have to be made by the international community to deal effectively with them. Despite the tremendous progress that has been made in recent years in all sectors of human activity, and despite the potential benefits heralded by the globalization of economies and technological breakthroughs, half of the world's population continues to live in a state of abject poverty. Morocco believes that efforts to reduce poverty and to ensure sustainable development require international action in order to integrate the developing countries in the global economy and new reforms, undertaken by the countries concerned, to meet the essential needs of their peoples with respect to health care, education and employment. Similarly, trade barriers must be reduced for those goods that are of particular benefit to the exports of the developing countries, particularly the least developed countries. Medium-income countries should be relieved of their debt burden so that they can devote the resources thus freed to investments in social and economic infrastructures. In this context, Morocco believes that the time has come for international institutions, particularly the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization, to adopt a new approach to assisting the countries of the South in their development efforts. These institutions must adapt themselves to the new international context in order to redress the imbalances between the countries of the North and the South, which have grown considerably since the external-debt crisis. The total statistical indices available and the lessons learned from the paradoxical trends that are intrinsic to the world economy reveal the need to seek new sources for financing and sustainable development. That being so, Morocco places great hopes on the holding of a world conference in the year 2001 on financing for development and hopes that at that time bold initiatives will be taken in order to alleviate the intensity of poverty in the world. 20 Morocco is rooted profoundly in its Africanism and is therefore very much concerned about the growing number of hot spots in Africa and also the illicit traffic in small arms that feeds those conflicts. It is extremely regrettable that our continent holds the unhappy record for refugees throughout the world, victims of wars, as well as for epidemics, for example AIDS, malaria and many others. Only a concerted effort on the part of the African countries, with the support of the international community, will be able to reverse the current trend. Africa, which has been torn by armed conflicts, presents the image of a continent drifting aimlessly. Nevertheless, we Africans have always been known for our wisdom and our natural gift for negotiation and conciliation. We would like here to make a pressing appeal to all those involved to renounce resorting to force as a means of solving disputes. Africa has wasted a great deal of time in internal quarrels, thus passing up valuable opportunities for developing and becoming an integral part of the world economy. The financial and human resources the belligerent parties have wasted killing each other could have been better utilized to serve social and economic development projects in their respective countries and could have helped them to overcome all the problems that they face. That is why we support all the initiatives that have been recommended by the United Nations to set up a strategy to prevent conflicts and to improve mechanisms for intervention in these cases. As always, Morocco supports all those initiatives that help to strengthen peace and security in Africa. In this regard, Morocco has responded to the United Nations appeal to participate in the peace mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The marginalization of Africa is a serious obstacle to its integration in global development. Our continent receives only 2 per cent of international investments, whereas the population of our continent is in excess of 700 million. While it is true that responsibility for development of the continent rests first and foremost on the shoulders of the Africans, it is equally true that the resources available to the Africans cannot meet the considerable needs of their populations in all fields. For that reason, it is becoming more and more urgent to help Africa by displaying solidarity in order to ensure that it embarks on the road to progress, security and peace, specifically by developing its human resources, and by educational policies that are adapted to the realities of the continent and are in harmony with the values of that continent and its civilizations. We also have to consider the question of the debt of African countries so that the treatment of this problem can finally generate wealth rather than be an obstacle to development. The effort of African countries should also be supported by opening the markets of the developed countries to their products and their exports. For its part, Morocco intends to spare no effort to make its contribution to improving the living conditions of African peoples — hence, the decision that was announced by His Majesty King Mohammed VI at the African-European Summit in Cairo, a decision to cancel the debt of the least-developed African countries to the Kingdom of Morocco, and also to remove customs barriers to their exports. We hope that other countries, particularly the rich and industrialized ones, will make a similar gesture. Morocco believes that the peace that we all aspire to in the Middle East can only be brought about if international legal principles are respected, particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), the principles which emerged from the Madrid Conference, particularly the principle of land for peace, as well as the commitments and the agreements that were concluded between the parties concerned. Peace in this region to which Morocco is so attached can only take place when Israel withdraws from all occupied Palestinian territories and the Syrian Golan. The international community must assist the Palestinian people to recover its legitimate and inalienable rights, first and foremost its right to set up its own independent State on its territory with Al Qods Al-Sharif as its capital. Morocco, on the initiative of His late Majesty King Hassan II, may God have mercy on his soul, and his successor King Mohammed VI, will spare no effort to usher in the establishment of just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. His Majesty King Mohammed VI, as chairman of the Al-Qods Committee, during the State visit to Washington in June 2000, made an appeal to the parties concerned to start upon a fruitful dialogue between the cultures and civilizations and: 21 “to all believers, people of the Book and in this faith which have united the children of Abraham, to liberate this thrice holy city from hatred and resentment.” These same principles were reiterated by the Committee on Al-Qods during its most recent meeting, which was held on 28 August under the presidency of His Majesty Mohammed VI. Morocco would like to join its voice with all peace and justice-loving countries so that the current efforts may be crowned with success, which will make it possible for all peoples in the region to live in peace, stability and security. The Moroccan people share the joy of our brothers, the people of Lebanon, as a result of the Israeli withdrawal from its territory, and we will continue to give our unflagging support to the people of Syria to reassume total sovereignty over the Golan Heights, which is occupied by Israel. We are also following with some disquiet the burdensome conditions imposed upon the Iraqi people by the embargo which has deprived people, particularly children, of food and medicine and many other needs as well. Morocco, for its part, feels anxious at the deterioration of the food and health situation in Iraq. We support all international efforts to lift sanctions against that fraternal country. We consider furthermore that safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq is a fundamental prerequisite for stability in the region. Morocco welcomes the suspension of the air embargo imposed on Libya. We also hope that the total embargo will be finally lifted as soon as possible. Morocco, aware as it is of its responsibilities, is sparing no effort to make the Maghreb an area of peace and peaceful coexistence among all peoples in the region. The partners in the Arab Mahgreb Union must get beyond their current economic problems and accept the fact that the only way to develop the region and ensure its security and stability is to build this Union, in which our peoples have placed great hopes, particularly at this time when the requirements of globalization make the establishment of regional groups yet more important. Among the challenges faced by the Mahgreb, there is the so-called problem of the Western Sahara. I would like to take this opportunity first and foremost to confirm that the Kingdom of Morocco, which initiated the referendum, has cooperated completely in its implementation and has indeed made a number of sacrifices to allow the population of that region to reassert its will. We have been very patiently following the efforts undertaken by the Secretary-General to allow this process to reach a successful conclusion. We have supported all the efforts that have been made, since we are convinced that, in the final analysis, the referendum, while ensuring respect for self- determination, will eventually confirm the rights of our country to territorial integrity and its sovereignty over the entire southern territory. As everyone knows and as has been emphasized by the Secretary-General and by the Security Council in various reports, the referendum's implementation — to which, in contrast to what some have claimed, we remain committed — has come up against a number of problems that may, if not resolved, endanger and compromise the entire process. What essentially needs to be done is to ensure, without any kind of partiality or leniency, that the entire Saharan population, as has always been agreed, may express its wishes in accordance with the letter and spirit of the referendum plan. If the referendum is to be democratic, free and equitable, it must be subject to a number of rules that no one can transgress by trying to accommodate one particular party at the expense of the other. The Secretary-General and his Special Representative are still actively involved in this task. We will continue to give them our total cooperation so that the various difficulties besetting the implementation of this plan can be overcome. Our country has made its own contribution to the efforts by making a number of suggestions that should be acted upon if we want to have a democratic, impartial and equitable referendum. We would repeat that, for our part, while we remain committed to the continuation of this process and respect the rules set up for it, we will give our total support to any action that the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy, Mr. James Baker, undertake to resolve this dispute once and for all. As His Majesty King Mohammed VI stated on 30 June 2000, any settlement must be carried out in the context of the sovereignty, legality and unanimity of the Moroccans. 22 This being said, Morocco would like to draw the international community's attention to the situation of the tens of thousands of refugees who have been forcefully displaced and who have been living under inhumane conditions, according to the reports of international humanitarian organizations, of diplomats who have had access to the camps, and of the hundreds of escapees who have managed to return to the Sahara. The international community can no longer tolerate the suffering of these people because of delays and considerations they themselves are not responsible for. No one can disregard the fact that the Kingdoms of Spain and Morocco are joined by the unbreakable ties of their age-old history, their geographical and cultural closeness, and by their common destiny as part of the Euro-Mediterranean region. Because of our desire to safeguard these excellent fraternal and neighbourly relations Morocco has constantly appealed to friendly Spain and to all political forces in Spain to find a solution that will spare our children unnecessary suffering from crises inherited from a painful past. Spain, which is a great friend and neighbour, must understand that the occupation of the two Moroccan cities of Septa and Melilla and the neighbouring islands is not in accord either with international law nor with the sense of history. Based on similar situations, we are convinced that it is possible to devise a settlement that will both safeguard the sovereignty of Morocco and respect and protect the economic, social and cultural interest of Spain in both of these cities. For this reason, on a number of occasions the Kingdom of Morocco has suggested — on the initiative of His late Majesty Hassan II, may God preserve his soul — that a Moroccan-Spanish think tank be created in order to bring about a final resolution of the situation regarding Septa and Melilla and the neighbouring islands. Our two countries are duty bound to spare our peoples and our region from all possible misunderstanding and resentment. It is for this reason that Morocco offers a hand of peace to Spain, inviting it to commit to a common dialogue so as to resolve once and for all this territorial dispute inherited from the remote past. Morocco, because of its geopolitical position, attaches particular importance to stability and to strengthening cooperation in the Mediterranean basin. Relations between Morocco and the European countries is of great strategic importance in view of the various historic, political, economic, cultural and human ties that unite us and in view of the values we share. The mutual attraction between Morocco and Europe derives from history, geography and common strategic needs, while a range of mutual interests have naturally made the European Community Morocco's first partner in a number of areas relating to international cooperation. Relations with the European Union have developed quite significantly this year with the coming into force of the Association Agreement of 1 March. This agreement marks a decisive stage in our relations with the European region since it is built essentially on four fundamental pillars: political dialogue; economic, cultural, technical and social cooperation; enhanced financial cooperation; and the progressive and responsible development of a free- trade zone by the year 2012. Morocco is currently waiting for the European Union to carry out the qualitative leap that will make it possible to redirect our association along new strategic and innovative lines — governed by agreed modalities, by shared responsibilities and by co-development in all sectors of common interest. It is our hope that the flow of direct investments into Morocco and to the other countries of North Africa as well will be encouraged in order to help create mass employment, which is so essential to keep our youth away from social evils and to consolidate the bases of our progress in regional stability. It is also our hope that the cultural interests and the cultural identity of our Moroccan community in Europe will be safeguarded and that the dignity of our nationals will be constantly protected in accordance with the democratic values that are the underpinning of the European structure. In this context we can, together, conceive of a Mediterranean region where security and peace prevail as well as a strengthened European/Mediterranean partnership. In disarmament matters, Morocco appreciates the considerable advances made by the Review Conference of the Parties to the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), which took place in New York in May of this year. We hope that Israel will respond positively to the Conference's appeal to accede immediately to the NPT and place its nuclear installations under the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency. We are 23 convinced that such a decision on the part of the Israeli authorities will be a major contribution to ushering in a climate of peace, trust and stability in the region. Morocco supports the initiative of the Secretary- General to organize an international conference that would make it possible to find appropriate means to put an end to the nuclear threat. It is Morocco's firm conviction that the United Nations continues to be the most appropriate tool and instrument for settling conflicts and for building peace. It is therefore high time that the Organization set up credible machinery and early warning mechanisms to react in an appropriate way before conflicts break out as recommended in the report of the high-level expert Panel on United Nations Peacekeeping Operations. The United Nations and its specialized agencies are now more necessary than ever to contain and resolve the problems of security and development. The United Nations must continue to be the cornerstone of strong multilateral cooperation. The complexity and interdependence of the problems before us mean that we must increase international cooperation and consultation. For that reason, a new era in international relations necessitates a reform of the Security Council by revising its functions and its membership. Such a reform will undoubtedly confer greater credibility on the Security Council and make it better adapted to perform its mandate in maintaining international peace and security. Despite difficulties, the main point is to ensure the best possible representation in the Security Council of the various current components of the United, particularly the developing countries. The end of the ideological rivalry between the two super Powers means that we can entertain new prospects that there will emerge an international order based on justice, peace, international legality and human rights as well as democracy and development, an order that will make use of the Charter as a work of reference and that will take into account the growing universalization of the Organization and the fact that new global social challenges are emerging and also that recent socio-strategic changes have occurred. Finally, we are convinced that if the United Nations directs its actions along these lines, it will finally meet the ideals for which it was founded.At the outset, Sir, let me convey the congratulations and best wishes of the Government and people of Solomon Islands on your election as President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Your proven tremendous skills as a consensus-builder and mediator will no doubt guide the Assembly to adopt useful decisions on the many important issues before us. My Government is committed to working closely with you and all Member States during this Millennium Assembly. Solomon Islands warmly welcomes the admission of our sister nation Tuvalu as a new Member of the United Nations. This is further testimony that the United Nations is indispensable and that its body of international laws is vital to the protection and security of small island developing States. We look forward to working very closely with the delegation of Tuvalu. The Government of Solomon Islands concurs that conflict prevention should be the cornerstone of collective security in the twenty-first century. We also acknowledge that peace and democratic stability are critical pre-conditions for economic growth and sustainable development. Moreover, economic and development cooperation have an important role to play in fostering these pre-conditions. As highlighted in our Millennium Summit statement, the ethnic crisis in our country has challenged national peace, security and stability. It has resulted in the loss of human lives and property, the closure of all key industries in our economy and the displacement of more than 30,000 people. While it may not be comparable to major conflicts in other parts of the world, the net result in human loss and suffering is relative. Therefore, the international community, particularly the United Nations, must give equal attention to every conflict situation. All Member States, both large and small, must be treated fairly. Challenges to the security and stability of small island developing States like Solomon Islands are, increasingly, beyond their capacity to cope. In such cases, the support of the United Nations and the international community at large is imperative. In the context of our crisis, our smallness and remoteness, limited resources, ethnic and cultural diversity and history are fundamental considerations. Restoring law and order is the number-one priority for my Government as we strive to resolve our conflict. There is no peace without security. While a peaceful and comprehensive solution has to come from Solomon Islanders themselves, international support to sustain the peace process is necessary. Since we launched our national peace plan, we have made some progress in getting the conflicting parties to the table to 2 negotiate and agree to a ceasefire. A ceasefire Agreement was signed by all parties concerned on 3 August 2000 and a National Monitoring Council to oversee its implementation was subsequently formed. Despite some violations of the Agreement, my Government remains steadfast in our commitment to achieving peace. Further peace talks have since taken place in Honiara, the capital, and a draft framework towards a peace agreement was adopted. A more conclusive peace agreement will be negotiated in Cairns, Australia. Recognizing the importance of civil society participation in conflict resolution, reconciliation and reconstruction, my Government will continue to involve non-governmental organizations, including women's and church groups. May I express my Government's appreciation to the South Pacific Forum countries for their understanding and support during this challenging time. I wish to mention in particular the recent visit by a Pacific ACP ministerial mission led by the Foreign Minister of Papua New Guinea to assess the current situation and make recommendations to the joint European Union/African, Caribbean and Pacific (EU/ ACP) Commission. We further appreciate the efforts of the Governments of Australia and New Zealand in facilitating our peace process through their logistical support. To sustain long-term peace, Solomon Islands will need the cooperation of its development partners to rebuild the economy and to foster a development path that creates employment, ensures fair distribution of national resources and wealth and accommodates our diverse cultural traditions. Only the United Nations and other international institutions have the scope and legitimacy to generate the principles, norms and rules that are necessary if globalization is to benefit everyone. The least developed countries (LDCs), including Solomon Islands, need international support to build the capacities to enable us to become more effectively and beneficially integrated into the global economy. The Third United Nations Conference on the LDCs next year will give the international community a unique opportunity to review, assess and adopt policies and measures that could effectively address the development constraints of least developed countries. Developing and sustaining competitiveness and productive capabilities, like all other aspects of development, is a long and often frustrating process. My Government, however, is prepared to work with our development partners to address these problems in a renewed spirit of solidarity and shared responsibility. The past decade has witnessed the adoption of several international conventions and programmes of action, from the environment and sustainable development to social development and the advancement of women. Their five-year reviews, despite some progress, have indicated that insufficient resources remains a major obstacle to wider implementation, especially in rural communities in developing countries. New and additional resources are required if we are to make a difference. The United Nations Intergovernmental Conference on Financing for Development next year must produce a practical outcome on how to mobilize financing for development in the new millennium. The twenty-first century should be a century for better implementation of international programmes, a century for action rather than rhetoric. The economic vulnerability and ecological fragility of small island developing States must be an integral basis for decisions on development cooperation with these States. Such cooperation in my view should continue to focus on better trading opportunities, including market access, capacity- building — in particular, human resources development — and adaptation and mitigation programmes to address climate change and sea level rise. Investment in renewable energy remains a priority for Solomon Islands. Access to a reliable and cost-effective energy source is imperative if our rural population is to capitalize on the opportunities of the information age. The international community must mobilize resources to implement the Secretary General's recommendations on bridging the digital divide between developed and developing countries. Solomon Islands is committed to reform, strengthen and enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations system, including the Security Council, which has primary responsibility under the United Nations Charter for maintaining international peace and security. Greater flexibility and understanding should be demonstrated towards those that are striving to become new permanent members of the Council, including Japan and Germany. A similar attitude should be shown towards the reconfiguration of the United Nations regional groups to reflect present-day realities 3 and to accommodate those Member States, including Australia and New Zealand, which wish to be placed in their most appropriate regional or geopolitical grouping. Only an inclusive and universal United Nations can effectively perform its mandate in the twenty-first century. We must show greater understanding towards those who request to participate in the work of our Organization. May I take this opportunity to reiterate the point made by Solomon Islands during the Millennium Summit relating to the principle of an all-inclusive and universal United Nations. A case in point is that which relates to the reunification of China, which would foster greater stability in world affairs and effectively bolster the activities of the Organization. This new approach by the United Nations for the two Chinas will enhance greater understanding in pragmatic diplomacy and pave the way for efforts currently under way in the Korean peninsula. This is not impossible to achieve, as we saw just before the turn of the century in the reunification of the two Germanys. The challenges facing the United Nations in the twenty-first century are daunting. An effective United Nations demands the steadfast commitment and support of all its Members. The rich and powerful must pay their dues on time, in full and without conditions. Above all, the United Nations needs global political will and resources to maintain peace and security, promote sustainable development, address environmental degradation, combat poverty and disease and foster respect for human dignity. Human problems will always remain with us, but the way to resolve them should be through dialogue and discussion. This is the approach my Government is taking towards resolving the current ethnic unrest in our country. Attaining peace could be a painful and slow process, it could be fragile and imperfect when achieved, but we believe we can do it. We must, however, go beyond achieving peace. We must provide our people with the values and skills that will sustain peace. As we enter the twenty-first century, let us reaffirm our commitment to work in partnership with others in pursuit of global peace and human security. On behalf of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, I should like to congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election to the presidency of the fifty- fifth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that his personal qualities and his extensive political and diplomatic experience are an excellent 36 guarantee of the success of this session. I should like to assure him of the full cooperation of our delegation in this lofty task. I should like also to seize this opportunity to express our sincere thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the outstanding way in which he guided the work of the previous session. I pay tribute also to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. We deeply appreciate his efforts to reform and restructure the Organization as well as to develop its methods of work and rationalize its role in all domains so that it meet the needs and challenges of today. In this respect, we listened closely to the Secretary-General?s presentation of his report on the work of the Organization. It is also my pleasure to welcome Tuvalu as a new Member of the Organization. We are prepared to cooperate fully with it in order to achieve the objectives of our Organization. The reform and restructuring process of the United Nations bodies has become a necessity for the common interest. The conditions in which the United Nations was founded more than 50 years ago have changed, and major developments have taken place in all fields and at all levels, making it essential to review the methods of work and structure of the Organization. For that reason, we support the expansion of the Security Council, in keeping with the principles of transparency and justice, so as to achieve equitable geographic representation and to reflect the universality of the Organization, in accordance with Article 24 of the Charter. This session is being held at the dawn of the third millennium, at a time when the majority of humanity is living in conditions that prevent them from realizing their aspirations. Despite some encouraging indicators in some of the third-world countries, the general trend is towards a wider gap between the industrialized world and the developing one, which is facing major obstacles such as external debt, low prices for their commodities, and the difficulty of accessing world markets. Our Organization should exert all possible efforts to alleviate the economic and social difficulties confronting the developing countries. It must help them accelerate their development in an effective manner by increasing official development assistance and by allowing more direct foreign investments into these countries and the opening of the markets of the developed countries to the products of developing ones, all of which will contribute to the establishment of a new world order based on consensus, cooperation and solidarity among all States. The problem of debt must also benefit from the attention and the interest of the international community, because it is an obstacle to the economies of the developing countries. In this respect, my country hopes that the initiative undertaken to alleviate the debt of highly indebted and poor countries will contribute to the solution of this problem. The world today is facing numerous problems and challenges, the effects of which are not contained by national boundaries. They jeopardize international security and undermine the achievements registered in all fields. Thus it is our duty to work relentlessly to resolve these problems. They include, to give but a few examples, terrorism, poverty and violations of human rights. In this respect, my country wishes to reaffirm its condemnation of the phenomenon of terrorism, in whatever form and whatever its origin. We call for the reinforcement of cooperation and consultation at the international level in order to face this phenomenon with determination. There is also a need to put in place policies and adopt measures to combat poverty, in order to ensure sustainable development. My country has created a commission entrusted with combating poverty and with implementing concrete programmes aimed at preparing our citizens to play a role in development. This commission is also responsible for guaranteeing the promotion of individual and collective rights. In this context, I would like to recall the special session of the General Assembly on social development, held in Geneva last June, which reaffirmed and stressed once again the Programme of Action adopted at the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen in 1995. We hope that the outcome of that special session will contribute to an improvement in the living conditions of all people and to the attainment of sustainable development by strengthening the links between social issues and development. We express our satisfaction at the outcome of last June?s special session of the General Assembly, 37 ?Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century?, and we hope it will enhance the role played by women in all spheres. The foreign policy of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania is founded on good-neighbourly relations, peaceful coexistence and strengthening regional and international cooperation. In line with those principles, my country attaches great importance to consolidating stability and eliminating the causes of conflict and tension that can threaten international peace and security and hamper development in many regions of the world. Turning to the Middle East, my country, while reaffirming its support for the peace process, considers that a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the region can come about only on the basis of the Madrid agreements, the principle of land for peace, and the full implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) to ensure complete Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Palestinian territories and from the Syrian Golan and the restoration to the Palestinian people of their legitimate national rights, foremost among them the right of self-determination and the right to the establishment of an independent State with the holy city of Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. This requires us to intensify our efforts to overcome the obstacles to peace in the region, a region that so sorely needs a chance to realize its potential and to turn a new page in the history of its peoples. In that context, we note with satisfaction the Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon. We hope that efforts to bring stability and understanding to the Gulf region will be successful. My country reaffirms its respect for and adherence to international legitimacy, and reiterates its rejection of anything that could impinge on the independence or territorial integrity of Kuwait, as well as its rejection of any measure that would threaten the unity or territorial integrity of Iraq. We call for an end to the embargo imposed against the Iraqi people, who have suffered immensely from that embargo; it is children, women and the elderly who have suffered most. On the question of the Arab Maghreb, my country is working staunchly and resolutely in cooperation with our sister countries in the Arab Maghreb Union to strengthen cooperation and consultation to realize the aspirations of the people of that region. On Western Sahara, my country reaffirms its readiness to make every effort to promote the implementation of the United Nations settlement plan for that conflict. Turning to developments in the Lockerbie crisis, we wish to express our satisfaction at the progress towards a comprehensive settlement, including the suspension of the embargo imposed on Libya. We welcome the success of the diplomatic approach, and we hope that this problem will be resolved once and for all. We are concerned about the ongoing conflict in Somalia, and we hope that our Somali brothers will agree to engage in constructive dialogue in a spirit of responsibility and patriotism with a view to a peaceful settlement and to restoring unity and national sovereignty to the country so that it can once more enjoy stability and a climate of conciliation. We regret the continuing tension in Sierra Leone, and hope that ongoing efforts will bear fruit, so that that country, which for nine years has been suffering in a destructive war, can once again enjoy stability and a climate of conciliation. On the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we reaffirm our support for the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, which in our view is the only acceptable framework for a peaceful, comprehensive and lasting solution. With respect to Angola, my delegation reaffirms its full support for Security Council resolutions 864 (1993), 1127 (1997) and 1173 (1998), and calls upon UNITA to fulfil its commitments under the Lusaka Protocol so that peace and security may return to that country. Turning to the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, we express our satisfaction at the ceasefire achieved thanks to the efforts of President Abelaziz Bouteflika of our sister country the People?s Democratic Republic of Algeria. We hope that the negotiations between the parties will result in a final solution to that conflict. On Kosovo, my country expresses its satisfaction at the positive developments towards ending the violence, restoring confidence and rebuilding the country after many years of war. 38 The United Nations was established to attain the common purposes of all mankind, notably international peace, security and stability. The text of the Charter contains the provisions necessary to ensure a balance between the rights and the duties of all those wishing to serve the common interests of international society. That is why, at the dawn of the third millennium, we must spare no effort to ensure the maintenance of international peace and security.Allow me, Sir, to welcome you to your post and to wish you every success in your important and difficult activities in guiding the activities of this Assembly. I should like to say how grateful we are to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab for his wise guidance of the last session of the General Assembly. The twentieth century was in every aspect a century of sharp contradictions in relations among peoples and nationalities, as well as a century of economic disaster. The most stark examples were two world wars, scores of civil wars and the catastrophe at the Chernobyl nuclear power station, as well as other tragedies. The flames of war also raged in the African States, which had gained independence in the 1960s. In Central Asia, the Afghan wound is still bleeding, but the most important event of the twentieth century was the collapse of the enormous empire called the USSR — an empire which wore the outer shell of international friendship but within which everything was worm-eaten. New, independent sovereign states arose from its ruins. Out of that rubble, our independent neutral State arose — Turkmenistan, which from the very first days of its coming into being chose the path of goodness and justice, peace and cooperation. The twentieth century did not resolve many of the problems that needed resolution. Quite the contrary — the knots of these problems have become even more tangled and their lines even more taut. They have accompanied us into the twenty-first century and now we must unravel this tangled web and relax these taut lines. This should be the task and concern of all peoples and nationalities. Our planet is the house we share and therefore it is the duty of everyone living on this planet to keep it clean and peaceful and to achieve economic stability. In his report submitted to the Millennium Assembly, the Secretary-General of the United Nations drew our attention to problems which require immediate solution, relating to all aspects of our lives. Globalization is the priority problem. It is an inevitable objective process, part of the general course of world development, which includes many aspects, both positive and negative. This is a decisive trend in world development, which affects the whole complex and multifaceted field of international political and economic relations. In this respect, questions of international law and the moral and juridical aspects of relations between countries and regions cause concern and require constant monitoring. We must not allow some to hold sway over others or allow mankind to be programmed according to one yardstick alone, and no sovereign state should be dictated to by insistence on one development model. This is a very serious question, because this approach calls into question the entire system of international relations, the legitimacy of international legal norms and the principles and purposes — indeed, the viability of — the United Nations itself as the expression of voluntary cooperation among equal nations. The model of political globalization based on the supremacy of a neo-liberal philosophy is gradually strengthening the logic of confrontational thought in international affairs, leading to the arm-twisting of those who don't recognize the new international power structure based on humanitarian intervention and protecting human rights, but not on the rights of peoples. Turkmenistan, like the overwhelming majority of States, is against this approach. We are convinced that the common progress of mankind lies not in dictating one model or in a single set of laws and principles, but a combination of ideas and philosophies. In this 8 context, I should like to stress the importance and timeliness of the idea put forward by the President of Iran, President Khatami, of a dialogue between civilizations. We started this century and this millennium under such a profound symbol, and this obliges us to have respect and tolerance for a whole range of centuries-old cultures and State systems. That is how we see the possibility for a friendly dialogue among States, peoples and individuals. We must move away from looking for differences among us and start looking for what brings us together, without forgetting our specific features. That is our approach in our relations to the world and with all our partners, and this has made it possible for my country in the short period of time since our independence to build friendly relations with all our neighbours in the region and to find many friends far beyond the confines of our neighbourhood. The main achievement of independent Turkmenistan was to ensure stability within our State, and this stability has been guaranteed because of the universal support of the programmes and tasks facing the State, in which our people take a direct part. It is thanks to this stability that we are today successfully implementing economic and social programmes that seek to provide well-being for our citizens. The development of a socially oriented policy has been reflected in a strategy for socio-economic reforms in Turkmenistan for the period up to 2010. That programme envisages a continuation of the policy that gives priority to social programmes, bearing in mind the economic realities that have emerged in the years of our independence. Today, Turkmenistan is a country that is self-sufficient in grain and basic food products and that has implemented the main parts of its overall programme for economic security. In our economic programme, we stress in particular developing the real sector of the economy, institutional transformations and attracting investment — including foreign investment. Agriculture is our priority, as well as the fuel and energy sectors, the chemicals industry and consumer complexes, transport and communications infrastructure and a network of transnational pipelines that export Turkmenistan's fuel to world markets. One of the main tasks in this coming period will be to develop our productive potential. Here, a leading role will be played by the fuel industry. We intend to concentrate our efforts on labour-intensive sectors; these are promising from the point of view of their potential and competitiveness. The economic growth of our State should guarantee the well-being of our citizens. From the standpoint of ensuring sustainable social development and the progress and well-being of our people, regional cooperation is becoming particularly important. In our region, we have a stable system for active economic interaction, provided by the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO), which consists of 10 States with major resource and economic potential. Over the past few years within ECO we have started to implement some important interregional transportation and communications projects which will bring the European and Asian countries' economies closer together, bridge the technological gap between them and establish an equitable system of trade and economic relations between the North and the South. That same goal is currently being served by Turkmenistan's efforts to export energy raw materials to world markets. Building pipelines is not just a question of profitable commercial projects; these are also projects for the social development of our country on an enormous scale, going well beyond our national confines. Because of this, Turkmenistan is taking an initiative to draft an international legal instrument to guarantee the safe, unimpeded transit of energy raw materials through major inter-State pipelines. This instrument is necessary to make sure that the interests of the producers are taken into account, as well as those of the transit countries and consumers, and that we totally rule out the possibility of the use of these pipelines as an instrument for political and economic pressure. Another problem that could severely damage regional stability is the question of the legal status of the Caspian Sea. The lack of clarity on this question and the one-sided scenarios being offered impede the use of the enormous potential of this sea. For Turkmenistan, the main point is to take into account the interests of all riparian states in order to ensure that cooperation on the Caspian is based on mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit. Turkmenistan believes that seeking a new legal status for the Caspian Sea requires all riparian States to make some sensible compromises 9 and show a willingness squarely to face the new realities. This process should be monitored by the United Nations. Touching on regional security, allow me to dwell on the grave Afghanistan problem, which we take particularly seriously. The history of the long-suffering Afghan people has shown that any outside interference in this domestic conflict, particularly the use of force, is futile and will only make matters worse. We are facing a fair accompli, and in this situation we must recognize that dialogue and cooperation with the Taliban will give more results from the point of view of their natural modernization than any attempts to isolate them or to impose any kind of sanctions on them. Sanctions basically work against the Afghan people. They are therefore counterproductive. Turkmenistan favours a peaceful solution of its conflicts, and as a neutral, friendly neighbouring State is prepared actively to promote the Afghan settlement under the aegis of the United Nations. In particular, recently, upon the initiative of the President of Turkmenistan, another initiative was taken to work out some mutually acceptable solution to resolve this Afghanistan conflict. That was the point of the Turkmenistan mission which went to Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan and held talks and consultations with top leaders of these countries and with the leaders of the Taliban movement and the Northern Alliance, after which proposals to settle the conflict were made at the recent meeting between the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Afghanistan six plus two group. Together with the United Nations, Turkmenistan is making every effort to convince the belligerents to cease fire and to sit down at the negotiating table. In conclusion, I again assure the Assembly that in Turkmenistan the United Nations has an active Member prepared to make every effort to discharge the lofty tasks decided at the United Nations Millennium Summit. As we enter the new millennium we begin to wonder what it will be like. What awaits us in the future? Every person, every people, living in this world is striving for a better, more radiant future, which has to be built consistently, insistently, on the basis of peace, respect and progress. I hope that all the peoples of the world will devote themselves to that goal.I will deliver this statement on behalf of Mr. Erkki Tuomioja, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Finland. The heads of State and Government have just completed the largest-ever United Nations gathering, the Millennium Summit. They adopted a forward- looking and ambitious Millennium Declaration. This, together with the Secretary-General's report for the Summit, sets a demanding agenda for the United Nations for the new millennium. A new spirit was kindled in the Summit. We need to keep that spirit alive in the Assembly, which now has the responsibility to start the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. The President of Finland made a statement on the need for the United Nations to be relevant for the Member States and their people. I should like to elaborate on some of her ideas a little further, fully supporting the statement made by the French Foreign Minister, Mr. VÈdrine, on behalf of the European Union. One of the most inspiring concepts that the Secretary-General has advocated is the culture of prevention. If we want the United Nations to be relevant, we must equip it with the means to be one step ahead of developments. Successful prevention requires a profound understanding of underlying causes. By understanding these causes, we can establish an early warning system that allows us to act in time, before the conflicts erupt. One of the root causes of conflicts is poverty. As almost half of the world's population still have to make do with less than $2 dollars a day, and struggle for existence, conflicts can flare up easily. Poverty is also an affront to human dignity. Trying to halve the proportion of people living in extreme poverty requires common efforts. Democracy and respect for human rights are important preconditions for all development and for poverty eradication to be sustained. Without democratic decision-making, respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, gender equality and good governance, it is unrealistic to expect sustainable results in poverty reduction. Demand for respect for human rights will continue to shape the destiny of humankind in the future. One of the greatest achievements of the United Nations has been the codification of a core set of human rights standards. Governments have the obligation to implement these standards. The United Nations is the only global organization primarily mandated to ensure respect for human rights. It should devote more attention and resources to the full realization and enjoyment of these rights universally. Globalization is not only an unavoidable process but also something which is on the whole beneficial for human development. Globalization today is not merely a continuation of the familiar process of internationalization of trade, market integration and growing interdependence. In these processes, we encounter the phenomenon of quantity changing into quality. The development of new technologies greatly multiplies the effects, both positive and negative, of globalization. I believe that the great majority of the world's population have benefited from globalization. Some have certainly made vast profits from it. As such, this is not to be deplored; but, at the same time, too many people are losers in the same process. Many more fear the potential threats and losses they perceive as negative effects of globalization. Still more are anxious as to whether global processes are under control any longer. For these reasons, it is of the utmost importance for us to be able to face the challenges of globalization and to counter many of its negative effects. The United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well as other international actors, must join forces in adopting and implementing the common rules needed to harness the positive power of globalization. Trade liberalization and trade rules under the auspices of the WTO should be implemented in such a way that they benefit all, particularly the poorest, as well as safeguard our common environment. One aspect of managing globalization is the need to enhance stability, transparency and responsible behaviour in international financial markets. We must counter disturbances caused, for example, by short- term speculative capital movements. Initiatives such as currency transaction taxes, the so-called Tobin tax, deserve careful consideration. If, as some studies indicate, such a tax is unworkable, it is all the more important to propose and adopt other means and instruments to achieve the same aims. 19 One of the most recent challenges is the digital divide created by the revolution in information and communication technology. Computerization and Internet literacy are not an end as such. They should serve the purposes of development: education, literacy, health care, empowerment and inclusion. By closing the digital gap, we help developing countries join the knowledge-based global economy. In the long run, the digital revolution has the greatest potential for the developing countries. Information and communication technology (ICT) will make technological leap- frogging possible for developing countries. The global agenda set in the United Nations conferences and summits in the 1990s addressed many such basic needs of human life which need common attention in the process of globalization. Progress was made on human rights, gender equality, population, social development, sustainable development, drugs, environmental issues and many others. In the new millennium, we must focus on the accelerated implementation of the plans of action adopted at these conferences. Still, our agenda keeps growing. Children, HIV/AIDS, racism and racial discrimination, financing for development, least developed countries as well as sustainable development and the environment require more profound attention from the world community. Even with these issues, I am afraid that our agenda is not exhausted. The growing agenda poses valid demands of coherence on the United Nations system and its work, as well as on the Member States. No matter how well we implement the global agenda and no matter how much we resort to preventive actions, we have to have improved means to solve crises and conflicts as peacefully and rapidly as possible. Finland welcomes the Secretary-General's initiative to take a critical look at the United Nations peace operations by a Panel of eminent persons. The Brahimi report suggests a comprehensive reform of peace operations. We need a detailed discussion on the report without delay. There are lessons to be learned for the United Nations and its Member States. We should particularly learn from the failures so as not to repeat them, but we also must learn from successes and see what works. We need to address the whole continuum of peace operations from the standpoint of prevention. It is most important to try to prevent crises from erupting. Prevention is an important element during a crisis as we try to stop its escalation. Prevention continues after crises in post-conflict peace-building, as we need to minimize their consequences and their duration, not to speak of their repetition. Kosovo is a prime example of this. I am stating the obvious when I say that the United Nations needs a rapid-reaction capability, qualified and experienced personnel to perform the operations, as well as the money to pay for them. This would make it easier to address an increased demand for United Nations peacekeeping. The critical approach taken in the Brahimi report should also be extended to other fields and activities of the United Nations in order to attain efficiency within the Organization. Reorganization and prioritization would free both human and financial resources for the core areas of our responsibilities. There have been positive developments in some crises that have long been on the United Nations agenda. A most encouraging example is the rapprochement in the Korean peninsula. Finland welcomes the positive development to bring peace, stability and reunification to the Korean peninsula and encourages the two parties to advance the process of dialogue. Finland also welcomes the withdrawal of Israeli troops from southern Lebanon in accordance with Security Council resolution 425 (1978). We hope this leads to a just, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. The nation-building process in East Timor has started successfully. I hope that the present transition period will soon lead to full independence for East Timor. Recent incidents in West Timor against United Nations personnel, however, jeopardize the progress and the capabilities of the United Nations system to help. We also strongly support the Secretary-General's efforts to achieve a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem. Developments in Africa have not been encouraging. I regret deeply that the safety and security of United Nations personnel have not been guaranteed in all United Nations operations, such as that in Sierra Leone. However, Eritrea and Ethiopia have reached an agreement and international monitoring can start. I am happy to announce that Finland will participate in the United Nations mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea. The continuum of multidimensional crises must be prevented, managed and solved with appropriate 20 multidimensional means. Addressing them requires cooperation among different organizations, such as the United Nations, the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Organization of African Unity and the Organization of American States, to mention but a few. The complexity of crises has shown that no single organization is capable of dealing with all aspects of a crisis military, civilian and humanitarian. Sad experiences, for example from the Balkans, remind us that many weaknesses still exist in the conflict-prevention and management capabilities of the international community. A clearer division of labour between the organizations is needed. They must concentrate on what they can do best, following the principle of comparative advantage. Complementarity and cooperation are the friends, and rivalry the enemy, of any operation. Coherent action is needed to address the situations, bearing in mind the comprehensive concept of security. I stress the need to enhance our civilian crisis-management capabilities in all relevant fields. Complex crises need expertise in the fields of civilian police, the rule of law, human rights, justice, electoral assistance, institution-building, economic reconstruction and rehabilitation, as well as impartial media. As stated in the Brahimi report, doctrinal shifts and more thorough strategic planning are needed at the United Nations to address complex and often intrastate conflicts. Peace and security are indivisible. Disarmament is a part of comprehensive and integrated action in preventing conflicts and in promoting a global dialogue on peace and stability. Arms control agreements, including the Treaty between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems, remain a cornerstone of international security. The successful outcome of the Review Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) created a new momentum in nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty must be ratified by all. We hope for a swift entry into force of the START II Treaty and we are looking forward to the commencement of the START III negotiations. One of the main concerns is the regional arms race. We need to ensure that the few countries remaining outside the NPT regime do not develop weapons of mass destruction. Also, conventional arms, and in particular anti-personnel landmines, small arms and light weapons, remain a concern in regional and internal conflicts. The United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects should aim at achieving significant results in adopting a comprehensive approach integrating security and development. Enhanced international action is also needed in humanitarian demining, particularly in post-conflict situations where civilian populations continue to be victims of anti-personnel landmines. I wish to join the Secretary-General's call on all States to sign and ratify the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) at the earliest possible date. It is important now to build on what has been achieved in and after the Rome Conference and to secure the early establishment of the ICC, fully respecting the integrity of its Statute. More and more States, including my own, are approaching the stage of ratification of the Rome Statute. We are confident that, in the long run, all States will recognize the benefits of a permanent International Criminal Court. Terrorism is an evil we must combat decisively and effectively so that everyone can live and travel freely in the world without having to fear crime and kidnappings. We have negotiated 12 major anti- terrorism conventions within the United Nations framework that make it clear that terrorist acts are criminal and can never be justified by any ends. This obviously also applies to the means used to combat terrorism. Finland welcomes the initiative of the Secretary- General to offer an opportunity to sign any treaty or convention of which the Secretary-General is the depositary. In this connection, I should also like to make reference to the Tampere Convention on the Provision of Telecommunication Resources for Disaster Mitigation and Relief Operations. As the host country of the relevant conference, Finland would like to encourage all States to sign and ratify the Convention in order to bring it into force as soon as possible. The purposes enshrined in the Charter and the new challenges the United Nations is facing require unwavering support for the United Nations and for multilateralism from its Member States. The United Nations is an expression of the will of its Member 21 States to deliberate and act multilaterally. There are many reasons why multilateralism is the preferred, as well as perhaps the only sustainable, way to deal with problems. It involves all the actors that are needed for the long-term solution of conflicts. It provides the transparency that modern conflict resolution requires. It strengthens respect for international law in general. Last but not least, it diminishes the possibility that force will be used unnecessarily or disproportionately. A tendency towards unilateralism would only reopen old divisions or create new ones. The United Nations is a stronghold of multilateralism, and it should be used to safeguard the primacy of multilateral action. In this respect, we must ensure that the United Nations is able to act effectively when the need arises. The role and ability of the Secretary-General must be enhanced to enable the Organization to act when it is otherwise threatened with paralysis. In this context, I want to make it clear that the crisis management capacity under construction in the European Union will be at the service of the international community. It is not intended for unilateral interventionism. The Union will contribute to international peace and security in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter and the principles and objectives of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Charter on European Security. For this kind of a multilateralism to work, United Nations finances must be put on a sound, sustainable and equitable basis. This is crucial for its strength and credibility. Charter obligations related to the payment of contributions must be fulfilled by all, on time, in full and without conditions. Cooperation between the United Nations, Governments and non-governmental organizations has been very successful, and it must be intensified and facilitated. It has to be extended to cover the whole of civil society. Present challenges are too heavy for the United Nations to carry alone. I commend the Secretary-General for his several initiatives in this respect. In particular, I would mention his Global Compact initiative, which seeks to engage corporations in the promotion of equitable labour standards, respect for human rights and the protection of the environment. Cooperation with civil society is a necessity for the new millennium. Strong partnerships are needed to meet the challenges posed every day in the present world. This trend should be strengthened and encouraged.It is with the greatest pleasure that I congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of this Millennium Assembly. I pay tribute also to the outgoing President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, and reiterate to the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, my praise for his vision and 10 for the remarkable and courageous manner in which he is carrying out his duties. My French colleague has already addressed the Assembly on behalf of the 15 member States of the European Union, a statement with which my country fully associates itself. I will now touch upon questions of particular importance to my country, Portugal. As the Prime Minister stated here during the Millennium Summit, the United Nations finds itself at a turning point which necessarily calls for the exercise of reflection on the future of the Organization. In this era of increasing globalization, we should give the United Nations the means to accomplish the missions that we have entrusted it with, turning the Organization into the foundation of a more stable, united and cohesive international community. The international community faces three great challenges at the turn of the millennium: to strengthen our action on behalf of peace, to contribute to the eradication of extreme poverty, and to guarantee environmental conditions conducive to perpetuating life on earth. The increasing use of peacekeeping operations over the last decade, which we have encouraged, conclusively demonstrates their importance. The results that we have obtained on the five continents tell us with certainty that we have chosen the right path. To continue this effort effectively, the United Nations must have at its disposal the necessary resources, be they financial, technical, civilian, political or military. A credible peacekeeping capacity is in itself a deterrent to conflicts and therefore an integral part of the global system of conflict prevention, of which the United Nations should be an essential component. In this regard, Portugal welcomed with satisfaction the Brahimi report on peace operations. We believe that its list of recommendations point the way to a process of reform that will strengthen the capacity of the United Nations in conflict prevention, peacekeeping and peace-building. We should take advantage of the momentum that has been created and concentrate on obtaining concrete results within the next year or two. I would stress, however, that crucial questions will always be of a political nature. We must muster the necessary courage to broaden the scope of the responsibilities of the United Nations. Let us not deceive ourselves. As the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, stated, it is our function to intervene. Allow me to go ever further and to say that it is our duty to do so — to intervene in time, effectively and on the basis of international law. Portugal is ready to do so, as it has shown in the past. We have participated in peacekeeping operations in Mozambique, Angola, the Central African Republic and Guatemala, and today we are participating in United Nations missions in East Timor, Bosnia, Kosovo and the Western Sahara, with more than 1,000 peacekeepers. Portugal is currently the 11th-largest contributor to the United Nations peacekeeping operations, and first among its European Union partners. During the Portuguese presidency of the European Union, we gave decisive impetus to the creation of the European Union's capacities to intervene, which we see as being offered in the service of international peace and cooperation. In the year 2003, the Union will have at its disposal a force of 50,000 to 60,000 military personnel, to which 5,000 police will be added, as well as a civilian structure for crisis management. This aspect of Portugal's external activities will continue to be favoured, and the importance we attach to them is equally reflected in our candidacy for the presidency of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe for the year 2002. In a globalized world, the existence of tremendous economic asymmetries is a factor of permanent tension and conflict. Indeed, about half of the world's population lives on less than $2 a day. The turn of the millennium is an opportunity for us to reaffirm our will to combat and eradicate poverty on a global scale. It may be a utopian vision at this point, but with our combined efforts it is a goal that may be within our reach. In the time that it takes to deliver each of these statements in the General Assembly, around 300 children under the age of 1 will die. Is this acceptable? Obviously not. Could it be, then, that the human and financial resources necessary to fight this tragedy are so great that they force us into accepting it? The answer again is no. Many of those deaths could be avoided through better management and without an increase in resources. Health, like education, should be a priority sector for development assistance. It is vital to combine efforts, policies and instruments. Direct development assistance must be complemented by mechanisms to resolve the longstanding problems of the poorest countries through reform of the regulatory institutions of the global financial and economic system and through agreements that allow poor countries to access the markets of developed countries without trade barriers. I should like to stress in particular the importance of developing cooperative mechanisms between the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions, namely a revitalized Economic and Social Council. Our priority should be to redefine the role of each institution and to avoid any duplication of effort in a field where the United Nations should play a leading role. It is equally important to give responsibility to the countries receiving aid by demanding that funds be used efficiently or requiring good governance. In this regard I should like to emphasize that the fight against corruption should be a priority of all our Governments. The Millennium Declaration states clearly that the principal challenge today is to ensure that globalization becomes a positive reality for the entire population of the world, and not a new factor of exclusion. Only the United Nations is in a position to promote the partnership for change that Kofi Annan referred to in his report entitled “We the peoples”. Poverty, sadly, is also closely linked to infection and to contagious diseases such as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, which cause millions of deaths every year and which, in Africa, are laying waste to an entire generation and posing a tragic threat to future development. More than ever before, it is vital to mobilize the energies of civil society, institutions and the international community at large to fight infection and contagious diseases. The European Union and the United States recently agreed, at Lisbon, to strengthen their cooperation in the fight against those scourges. Turning to the environment, we must always be mindful of the fact that economic growth and progress must not be achieved at any cost, least of all at the cost of the future. The United Nations must continue to guide the way on environmental matters, as it has since the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro in 1992. But the response from States has fallen short — often very short — of what we committed ourselves to do in political statements and even in international treaties. Let us not delude ourselves: the United Nations plays an instrumental role in this crucial, strategic area, as was reaffirmed in the Millennium Declaration, but it is only States that can produce results. This is not a job that can be subcontracted to the United Nations. Here, civil society should use all its influence, by bringing pressure to bear on, and calling to account, Governments that think they can deal with environmental issues by opting out, as though they were simply matters of sovereignty. We can no longer think in that way. Global warming affects us all. To face this common problem, we need common action on a global scale. For geographical, historical and political reasons, Portugal is a country that is linked to the oceans. For that reason, we recognize their importance both to the land ecosystem and to the renewal of energy resources vital to the sustenance of millions of people. We welcome the launching of an informal consultative process on the oceans and the law of the sea, and we attach particular importance to the debate on scientific research on marine matters. Let me speak briefly about an initiative to which my country attaches great importance. In June, at Warsaw, a group of more than 100 countries, united by shared beliefs, endorsed a declaration entitled “Towards a Community of Democracies”. The participants recognized that there was no single model to determine how the will of a people should be respected. The Community of Democracies will play a role in uniting the efforts of all countries that believe a representative democratic system to be the system that best meets that objective. I wish now to speak of some regional matters that are of particular importance to my country. Africa is one of the great priorities of Portuguese foreign policy. The first Africa-Europe Summit was held during the Portuguese presidency of the European Union, and on the basis of a Portuguese proposal. The Summit opened new vistas in the relationship between Europe and Africa which will surely make possible a joint process of reflection on the challenges and problems that the 12 two continents face. The second Africa-Europe Summit will be held at Lisbon in 2003. West Africa is at present one of our main concerns on the continent. In that connection I would mention the situation in Casamance in Senegal; the recent conflict in Guinea-Bissau, from which the country is only now beginning to recover; the serious conflicts in Sierra Leone and Liberia; the problem of refugees from those countries and their consequences for Guinea; and the instability along the borders of all those countries. The persistence and potential spread of those tensions and conflicts seriously threaten the security of the entire subregion of West Africa, which could have grave political, economic and humanitarian consequences. It is therefore necessary for the international community to give greater attention to this sensitive region of Africa while there is still time. With respect to Angola, we deeply regret the fact that the war is continuing, which we believe is due to the lack of implementation of the Bicesse and Lusaka peace agreements, and to UNITA's violation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. In our view, those instruments continue to be the reference point for a political solution to the Angolan conflict. We welcome the strengthening of the sanctions regime against UNITA and reiterate our pledge to cooperate with the Security Council's sanctions Committee. We consider that the presence of the United Nations on Angolan territory continues to be of fundamental importance, from both a humanitarian and a political perspective. Only thus can the United Nations quickly step in to support any political solution that may emerge. I welcome the intention of the Angolan Government to organize elections and to hold them in 2001. Promotion of the values of tolerance and dialogue and of democratic principles is essential to guarantee a lasting peace. One year after the referendum that allowed the people of East Timor finally to exercise their right to self-determination, the United Nations faces a new challenge: administering East Timor in its transitional period and creating the necessary foundations for a new independent and democratic State that will be a future member of the Association of South-East Asian Nations and of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries — and that we hope can be admitted to membership of the United Nations by 2001. Portugal has always supported East Timor and will continue to do so. Our total financial assistance, not counting our participation in the military component of the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, will reach an estimated $50 million this year, and will remain at that level in 2001 and 2002. Much remains to be done, but the able leadership of Sergio Vieira de Mello and the exceptional qualities of Xanana Gusmão allow us to look to the future with optimism. The tragic events that took place in Atambua on 6 September, in which three members of the staff of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees lost their lives, deserve unanimous condemnation by the international community. They testify to the impunity with which the militias act in West Timor. Two days after those events, further militia activity took place along the border, which led to the death of 11 people, this time of Indonesian nationality, who were assisting various non- governmental organizations and international organizations. We welcome the swift response of the Security Council in adopting its resolution 1319 (2000) and in deciding to dispatch an evaluation mission to West Timor. The new democratic Government of Indonesia has, in general, shown a spirit of cooperation. It is now time for it to honour its commitment to re-establish law and order in West Timor, disarming and dismantling its militias. Their continued existence destabilizes the transition process in East Timor and is an affront to the civilian and military authorities of Indonesia, disturbing the consolidation of the democratic regime in that country. For our part, we stand ready to work with the Indonesian Government, helping it to resolve this problem. It was in that spirit that the Portuguese Prime Minister proposed here last week a stability pact for East Timor. It is in that spirit that we will participate in the quadripartite summit to be held soon at Jakarta, which will bring together high-level representatives of Indonesia, East Timor, Australia and Portugal. Guaranteeing peace, fighting poverty, protecting the environment and leaving a better world for future generations: that is our duty at the turn of the millennium. Only through democracy can Governments respond to those aspirations of our societies. Only a reformed and ever more democratic United Nations will be able to help us face this common challenge.Year after year, we gather under this universal roof to join our minds and resources in order to make the world a safer and more prosperous place or, at least, one a little less burdened with all the troubles we have been trying to resolve for decades but have so far not succeeded in eradicating. Never before have we assembled in such numbers and extent in the span of just a few weeks first the religious leaders, then the Parliamentarians, then the heads of State and Government and, finally, the representatives to the General Assembly at its fifty- fifth session. Let us hope that this unprecedented congregation will not remain just a tribute to the dawn of the twenty-first century, but will emerge as a foundation for a better United Nations and a better world it has to serve. When our heads of State met at the Millennium Summit earlier this month, they unanimously agreed on the importance of the United Nations for our common future. To say that the United Nations is the only Organization that brings together all the countries of the world would be stating the obvious, but we must never underestimate the simple fact that this is the only global Organization with universal membership and comprehensive scope that indeed belongs to all of us to all the peoples of the world. This is where the ultimate strength of the United Nations lies. Unfortunately, we have too often failed to recognize this. Some haunting facts should not be forgotten: the fact that 1 billion people in this world of ours live on less than $1 a day; the fact that 1 billion people do not have access to clean water; the fact that the last time the number of Security Council members was expanded was nearly four decades ago, at a time when the overall United Nations membership was almost half of its current size. The United Nations must amount to more than a resolution or a decision, a plenary meeting or informal consultations. We all have to work together, to spare no effort to make the Organization more proficient, more effective and fully at the disposal of all its Member States. That is why Croatia welcomes the millennium report of the Secretary-General and shares his views on the need for action to adapt the functioning of the Organization to the challenges of the new century. There is a growing need and plenty of room for improvement along the lines of efficiency, transparency, equality and good governance. There is no room for excuses or for delaying reforms any further. The time for reform is now. Croatia has been an active Member of the Organization since its international recognition as a sovereign State in the early 1990s. At that time, in spite of all our activities, Croatia was primarily the object of numerous peacekeeping operations and endless debates within the Security Council. Today, Croatia is a major generator of peace and stability in South-East Europe, an active promoter and facilitator of democracy in the region, a reliable partner and a member of numerous regional organizations and initiatives. We have not forgotten the difficult years when Croatia was on the receiving end of United Nations activities. Today, we stand ready to put our expertise gained in peacekeeping and other fields to the service of peace and democracy. The experience of the homeland war, as well as the lessons learned during peacekeeping operations in Croatia, have served us well in Croatia's active engagement in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone. We are ready to expand our role in peacekeeping and to actively participate in its conceptual development. Croatia welcomes and will carefully study the recently published report of the Secretary-General on the reform of peace operations and the recommendations proposed. Unfortunately, the number of incidents with tragic consequences involving members of peace missions all over the world is constantly increasing. Just few days ago, three members of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Atambua in West Timor were brutally killed. One of them was Pero äimundûa, a citizen of Croatia. I would like to use this opportunity to pay tribute to him personally and to all peacekeepers whose tireless efforts cost them their lives in performing their noble tasks in the line of duty. Croatia is currently a member of the Economic and Social Council, the central body of the United Nations. The increasing development of the Council as a forum for policy dialogue, together with its follow-up dimension of the major world conferences, adds important value to its work and puts a heavy workload on its members. Croatia's international responsibilities start with those towards the region of South-East Europe. At the January elections, citizens of Croatia demonstrated their strong commitment to democratic values, respect for human and minority rights, the rule of law and economic reforms. They opted for broad changes that will bring them into the mainstream of the European integration processes. The new Croatian Government is well aware of all the responsibilities it has undertaken and all the opportunities that are arising. We firmly believe that Croatia's leading role as a contributor to peace and security in the region of South-East Europe will considerably contribute to turning this part of Europe into an area of peace and prosperity. In February, the Croatian Government adopted a programme that, as its primary goals, stresses democratic values, respect for human and minority rights, the return of refugees and displaced persons, good-neighbourly relations and integration into the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The new Government is determined to fulfil all Croatia's ongoing international commitments and to assume new ones, if the need arises. The elections in Croatia at the beginning of this year resulted in important changes. They provided for an increased level of human rights protection and media freedom, as well as the acceleration of the return process. Important legislative revisions in the field of the return of refugees have opened the door for the unimpeded return of all Croatian citizens, regardless of their ethnicity and without condition of reciprocity. All the citizens of Croatia stand equal before the law in terms of the reconstruction of their houses and all other return-related rights. The Government of Croatia will do its best to fully implement those laws. Croatia is mindful of the fact that the return of refugees represents a necessary prerequisite for lasting stability in the region. In order to accelerate the process of return, the Croatian Government, in cooperation with UNHCR, has prepared a special return project for 16,500 persons, tailored to their needs. The necessary arrangements for the return of refugees to both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are to be made through central institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line with the new Croatian policy towards that country. Additionally, to speed up the process of two-way return with Republika Srpska, the former Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska and I have signed a joint declaration on the facilitation of the return of refugees. Through this document, we have committed ourselves to enabling the return of 2,000 people from each side, as well as to exchanging information and adjusting procedures in that regard. I can proudly say that real progress in the return process has been achieved. 3 At the same time, I have to stress that the number of returns to Croatia by far exceeds the number of returns of Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Additional efforts have to be invested to speed up the return process of Croats and all others to Bosnia and Herzegovina. All the refugees have the right to return, but they also have a right to stay in the areas where they presently reside. For all those Bosnian Croats who wish to stay in Croatia, we have to provide appropriate help in finding new housing facilities. The success of the return of refugees does not depend solely on political and legal parameters. It has to be accompanied by the development of the State economy and the local economy. The return process must be sustained by job opportunities, small- and medium-size enterprises, strengthening of the social fabric and adequate schools and health institutions, as well as better living conditions generally. Otherwise, we shall just turn returnees into economic migrants and they will be on the road once again. Not a small part of legislative changes relates to the protection of human and minority rights in Croatia. The Croatian Government is of the opinion that the necessary preconditions have been met for excluding Croatia from the omnibus resolutions on the situation of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which have been adopted by both the General Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights, and for the exclusion of Croatia from the mandate of the Special Rapporteur derived from the Commission's resolution. Important recognition of the progress Croatia has made in respecting fundamental values of democracy, human rights and rule of law came recently from the Council of Europe. The Monitoring Committee of its Parliamentary Assembly concluded last Friday that Croatia has honoured its obligations and most of its commitments undertaken at the time of its accession to the Council of Europe in 1996. Consequently, we expect that the monitoring procedure will be formally closed at the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly, at the end of this month. For the Croatian Government, cooperation with the International Tribunal in The Hague remains primarily a legal issue, not a political one. The Croatian State Parliament adopted the Declaration on Cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in April, unambiguously affirming its support for the Tribunal, and this important document remains a framework for Croatia's policy towards the ICTY. It is our firm position that the guilt for the crimes committed must be individualized: no nation can be held collectively responsible for the crimes committed by war criminals claiming to act in its name. In order to improve the quality of cooperation with the ICTY, the Government Council for cooperation with the ICTY has been constituted and close working relations with the Tribunal established. Promotion of good relations with its neighbours is Croatia's high-priority goal. In its programme, the Croatian Government clearly stipulated that its relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina are based on good-neighbourliness, equality and transparency. Croatia will continue to cooperate with Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community in the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, which remains the foundation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's self-sustainability and the guarantee of the preservation of the national interests of its three constituent peoples. Croatia's policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina rests on full respect for the independence and sovereignty of that country. Croatia sees this as the only way to a prosperous future for the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the care for whom remains our constitutional obligation. Croatia will continue to support Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it foresees doing this in a transparent way, in accordance with the Dayton Agreement and with a clear Euro- Atlantic orientation. Transparent financing of the Croatian component of the Federation Army through the Standing Committee on Military Matters is only one of the steps aimed at enhancing the central institutions and concrete proof of the new Croatian policy towards Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The relations between Croatia and Serbia cannot be regarded outside the framework of the international isolation of the Milosevi? regime. Croatia is not questioning at all the need to continue the normalization process with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but its dynamics and substance will depend on the democratization of Serbia, which remains one of the necessary conditions for international and 4 economic stability in the region. Croatia hopes that the forthcoming elections in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be conducted in a democratic way that reflects the true will of the people and that they will result in democratic changes. Bearing in mind the fact that the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has been denied an opportunity to monitor the elections means that the elections could lose their international credibility. Still, Croatia wants to believe that Serbia will find a way to end the present situation and join the mainstream of the political and economic integration process in the region and Europe as a whole. Croatia supports democratic developments in the Yugoslav Republic of Montenegro. An open, democratic, multi-ethnic, stable and economically viable Montenegro is in the interest of Croatia and of the region at large. In the course of this year a number of meetings have been held between the Croatian and Montenegrin officials at various levels, including the highest level. Two border crossings between Croatia and Montenegro are operating without impediment, and further steps for enhanced cooperation, especially economic ones, are under way. Croatia will continue to support the process of democratization that has already began in Montenegro and help in its opening towards Europe, firmly in line with the efforts of the international community. Croatia remains seriously concerned about the present situation in Kosovo and continued violence, whose victims are both Albanians and the Serbs. We hope that efforts of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) forces and civilian administration will be successful in bringing peace and stability to the region, as well as facilitating preconditions for the return of refugees. One issue, however, stands out in regard to the stability and lasting security of the whole region. It is the question of succession of States created after the dissolution of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. An important aspect of the succession problem is the question of membership of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the United Nations and other international organizations. The four successor States are of the opinion that this must be resolved in line with the already existing Security Council and General Assembly resolutions. That means that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia cannot automatically continue the membership of the former State in the United Nations, and therefore, that it should do what other successor States have done apply for membership as the fifth successor. Moreover, the four successor States are of the opinion that the current practice in the United Nations should reflect the above-mentioned resolutions and be more consistent in that regard. Therefore, we call for immediate implementation of those resolutions and emphasize once again the importance of resolving the question of succession, despite the rejection by the present Federal Republic of Yugoslavia regime. There are still a small number of United Nations military observers within the international borders of Croatia. Their performance in Prevlaka, the southernmost part of my country, has considerably contributed to the lasting solution to this problem, which is definitely one of security, not one of a territorial nature. Since 1992, Croatia has accepted the United Nations mandate on Prevlaka, with the last six- month extension on 15 July this year. The steady normalization of relations between Croatia and the democratic Government of Montenegro has considerably improved the situation on the ground and should serve as a bedrock for a lasting solution for Prevlaka. In approaching the Prevlaka issue one has to respect existing international borders, as well as legitimate security concerns, land ownership rights and the need for economic cooperation and development in the region. The stability of South-East Europe is an inseparable part of the overall European stability architecture. Being at the same time a Central European, Mediterranean, Danubian and South-East European country, Croatia plays an active role in several regional initiatives that serve as a foundation for stabilization, cooperation and development in our part of the world. Let me mention in this regard the Central European Initiative, one of the oldest regional initiatives, and the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative, the newest. During its chairmanship of the Working Community of the Danube Region this year, Croatia will host the traditional Conference of the heads of the regional Governments as well as the Economic and Cultural Forum. Alpe Adria is another subregional initiative in which Croatia plays an active role. Croatia's role as an active observer in the South-East 5 Europe Cooperation Initiative additionally emphasizes our intention to contribute to regional security and stability. From the very outset, Croatia has actively engaged in the creation and implementation of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. This strategic process represents a comprehensive approach towards the region in which the concept of stability includes democratization and human rights, economic development and security issues. Croatia has presented several project proposals to all three working tables of the Stability Pact, the construction of the Adriatic- Ionian highway being the most important of them. The construction of this highway, stretching along the coastline from the Italian to the Greek border, would mean a significant improvement in road travel between the countries of the region, and would also bring economic development to the very part of the region that most dearly needs it. I have the satisfaction of informing the Assembly that at the beginning of this week Croatia hosted the parliamentary summit of the Stability Pact, which had complete success in strengthening the important parliamentary dimensions of the Pact. The Stability Pact also serves as a mechanism for facilitating the European Union (EU) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) membership prospects for all those countries of South-East Europe that wish to pursue this path. Croatia is one of them. Full integration into the EU and NATO is the priority strategic objective of Croatian foreign policy. In a brief span of six months Croatia's international position regarding the European Union has thoroughly changed. It has gone from being a country with no institutional relations with the European Union to a country awaiting the start of negotiations on a stabilization and association agreement and, consequently, candidacy for EU membership. Croatia is very pleased with the results of the joint consultative task force, whose recommendations helped us to prepare the start of the negotiations on the stabilization and association agreement. We are encouraged by the European Commission high representative's statements that this generation of agreements will be tailored according to the present needs and achievements of the stabilization and association process countries, and that countries' further progress towards European Union membership will be assessed on their individual merits. In late November Croatia will host a summit of the European Union member States and the stabilization and association process countries Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Macedonia. We feel privileged to host such a historic meeting, one that will signify the importance that the European Union attaches to the region within the framework of the Union's enlargement process. At the top of the Zagreb summit's agenda will be the issue of opening EU prospects to the region and the countries of South-East Europe. This is firmly in line with the policy of creating one Europe without walls or curtains of division. We see the arrival of the EU heads of State or Government to Zagreb as a tribute to Croatia's democratic achievements and a harbinger of our status of country associated with the European Union. In May Croatia entered the Partnership for Peace. This provided Croatia with an opportunity to contribute more actively to the peace and security of the region and to strengthen its democracy and stability at the same time. In parallel, Croatia has begun the substantial reconstruction and modernization of its armed forces, aiming to meet all NATO requirements as well as democratic standards. Croatia continues its active engagement in the pivotal European organizations, such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe. It has achieved significant progress in working together with the OSCE on the improvement of security in the Danubian region through the engagement of OSCE civilian police monitors there, as well as in other fields of cooperation, such as the improvement of democratic standards in Croatia. World peace does not depend solely on peace and security in Europe. It is with concern that we look at the ongoing threat of new crises on the African continent, where tremendous amounts of human resources and money are feeding the war machines, instead of serving to fuel development. The cause of our special concern lies in the fact that many armed conflicts in Africa erupt encouraged by and with the participation of neighbouring countries, often using foreign mercenaries who sometimes come even from Eastern European countries. Croatia sees the implementation of the Non-Aligned Movement 6 principles, as well as of the principles of the Organization of African Unity and other, subregional organizations, as an important element in the political developments in that part of the world. These organizations undertake commendable efforts in order to establish mechanisms for conflict prevention, as well as to find the ways to end the ongoing crises. These efforts include the establishment of their own peacekeeping forces. In this regard, Croatia welcomes the determination of the African countries to solve their problems regionally and with support from the United Nations. The situation in the Middle East continues to shift between the brink of war and the brink of peace. The peace process between the Israeli and Palestinian sides must be maintained, and all of us should spare no effort to extend assistance and support to the accomplishment of this paramount task. From its own experience, Croatia is well aware of how important it is to strengthen the peace process through Security Council and General Assembly resolutions that are supportive of it, both in language and in political substance. Thus, Croatia advocates that forthcoming resolutions on the Middle East reflect all the aspects of the ongoing peace process, serving as an important impetus for its successful completion. Croatia is a country highly contaminated by antipersonnel landmines, with about 1 million landmines scattered over many parts of its territory. Their presence poses serious obstacle to the economic development of the country, and even more so to the return of people to their homes. The mine-clearing process is under way, but it has to be intensified if real progress is to be seen anytime soon. Many of the ongoing activities are performed in cooperation with donor countries, to which we extend our sincere gratitude; but maximum efforts have to be made to eliminate this evil completely and for good. In this connection, Croatia calls for further international assistance so as to enable the unimpeded development of the country at large. Let me briefly address the issue of the reform of the Security Council. Croatia holds the view that the present structure and functioning of the Security Council does not properly reflect the reality of international relations in the twenty-first century, or the need for universal democratization. We support increasing the number of permanent and non- permanent seats in the Council, taking into account equitable geographical distribution as well as contributions to the United Nations budget. However, reform must go beyond the sole issue of membership enlargement. The Council's methods of work should be made more transparent, in particular regarding informal consultations, which have proved to be anything but informal. The subject of greatest concern is that, with the advent of globalization, the number of people that are marginalized and strongly affected by its negative effects is growing. Therefore, we have to minimize the negative impacts of globalization and, at the same time, make its benefits available to all. The effects of globalization on the international economy are significant and call for enhanced cooperation through multilateral institutions. In addition to the efforts aimed at avoiding marginalization and at ensuring full integration into the world economy, the countries with economies in transition face challenges associated with privatization and structural and macroeconomic reforms. In the case of Croatia there is an additional challenge, that of the post-war recovery. In such circumstances, our pivotal goal is to consolidate economic recovery and create conditions for sound and sustainable economic and social development. Our overall economic programme and policy measures are designed to support further economic stability, with stable prices and low inflation, concurrent economic growth, a faster rate of employment and more exports. To attract foreign investments that are so important for the ongoing process of development, a new Investment Law has been adopted. Constructive economic cooperation on bilateral, regional and global levels remains Croatia's firm goal. Croatia has recently signed the Protocol of Accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and, within a few months, once the process of ratification is completed, Croatia will become a full member of the WTO. The challenges facing the Organization are numerous. Answers will have to be found for questions regarding how to renew the structure and mandates of the main United Nations bodies, how to ensure better management and mobilization of new resources, how to define new forms of partnership, both with the private sector and with non-governmental organizations, how to make cooperation more effective 7 and, above all, how to turn the United Nations into a result-based Organization. Croatia believes in the potentials of the United Nations and considers that it will be made truly efficient if we the Member States accept our responsibilities towards it. Croatia is ready to work together with all international actors in searching for the right answers to the challenges that lie ahead. Stability and prosperity of the world will become possible only if we never stop looking for ways to improve them. Croatia will continue to use its best efforts to preserve the positive trends in its general achievements and to contribute to European and world stability. In conclusion, allow me to congratulate Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Foreign Minister of Namibia and the President of the fifty-fourth session of the Assembly, on his dedicated work and on the great skills with which he performed his demanding job. I would also like to congratulate Mr. Harri Holkeri, Foreign Minister of Finland, on his election as President of the fifty-fifth session and to wish him all success in his future work. Finally, I would like to express the hope that this Millennium Assembly will result in new commitments that will bring progress in responding to the challenges of the new century.At the outset, I would like to extend my congratulations to His Excellency on his election as President of the current session of the General Assembly, wishing him all success in conducting its deliberations and in arriving at conclusions beneficial to the international community. I would like also to express our deep thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on his successful efforts in conducting the business of the fifty-fourth session. Furthermore, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of our Organization, for his report and his incessant efforts in the service of the purposes and principles of the Organization, with a view to enhancing its role and increasing its effectiveness in the international arena. The General Assembly holds its fifty-fifth session in the wake of the Millennium Summit, which witnessed a historic meeting of world leaders held under the auspices of the United Nations. The significance and meaning of the Summit affirm the commitment of the international community to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. This should lead to the enhancement of its role as the best framework for providing Member States with suitable mechanisms to organize and regulate international relations on the basis of cooperative partnership, particularly after the end of the cold war era and its concepts of polarization and balance of power, which had in the past instituted division and confrontation, depleted huge resources and caused widespread suffering in vast areas of the world. Since the establishment of the United Nations the world has witnessed developments that require a review of the methods and policies adopted so far. First, calls for democracy and efforts to establish it and make it a way of life within States should be consistent with the establishment of democracy in international relations and within the United Nations itself. It is not logical to continue urging and calling for the establishment of democracy on one level while rejecting it on the international arena, where in fact there is a dire need for democracy in order to achieve equality among the Members of this organization — rich and poor, strong and weak. During the past few years the United Nations has witnessed some changes in its methods of work. First and foremost we must emphasize the need to preserve the role of the General Assembly. The power of the Security Council, the executive arm of the Assembly for peace and security issues, should not be increased at the expense of the role of the General Assembly and its various other organs, which are supposed to provide balance and collective representation of the international will. Clearly, there is international consensus that the present composition of the Security Council does not provide equitable representation of the international community and that there is a need to correct this 29 situation. Since all States have expressed their positions through extended debates, the actions required have become clearer and more specific. All Member States, both developed and developing, agree that globalization and the abolition of borders and obstacles to economic exchanges present opportunities and pose risks. Although globalization facilitates the flow of goods and services as well as of ideas, it has presented the developing world with challenges related to deepening the gap between it and the developed world, particularly in view of differences in their respective levels of scientific and technological development. Globalization has also put the identity and sovereignty of developing States and peoples to a painful test. Additionally, it has shown how difficult it is for developing countries to meet the requirements of integration into the world economy. While a majority of developing countries were struggling to enter the industrial era, they witnessed the entry of the developed world into an era of information technology. While they were striving to provide basic services, like infrastructure, health care, social welfare and education, they witnessed the frightening acceleration of technological and economic changes — a phenomenon that thwarted their hopes of catching up with developed countries. While globalization, openness and economic integration make the world a unified economic environment, widening differences and deepening inequalities will inescapably cause damage to all in the long run. This situation makes it imperative to reformulate economic relations on the basis of cooperation and partnership. It also requires action to reduce differences, rectify economic imbalances and help developing countries adjust their economies to meet the requirements of globalization and integration. Furthermore, the experience of mankind has proved that poverty and huge economic and social disparities have always been the root causes of instability and confrontation. The Middle East peace process is going through an extremely sensitive phase. During the past few weeks and months, major, commendable efforts have been made to make Palestinian-Israeli negotiations bear fruit — arriving at a lasting settlement between the two parties. Jordan has made an essential contribution in all phases of the peace process. This contribution was motivated by Jordan's conviction that peace is the only real option for all States and peoples of the region. Indeed, geographic and demographic realities make it impossible for any party to settle the conflict by imposing its will or consecrating the status quo in its favour. Therefore, there is no alternative to establishing peace on the basis of law, international legitimacy, justice and equality. Despite the failure of the recent Camp David summit to produce an agreement between the Palestinians and the Israelis, it has enabled the parties to narrow the gap dividing their positions and made the requirements for reaching a settlement clearer. This confirms the need to continue the efforts by the United States in particular and the international community in general to build on what has been achieved so far. The achievement of lasting peace in the region requires the realization of the national rights of the Palestinian people, primarily the right to independence and the establishment of their State on their national territory, with the Holy City of Jerusalem as its capital. This means reaching implementable and sustainable solutions to the main issues, which are the subject of the permanent-status negotiations. Regarding the issue of territory, Israeli forces must withdraw from the Palestinian territories occupied in 1967, in accordance with Security Council resolution 242 (1967), so that a Palestinian state may be established on those territories, with internationally recognized borders. Any security arrangements that may be agreed upon must not be based on any claim of sovereignty as a result of occupation. The solution of the refugee problem must also be based on rules of international law and the various international conventions and on the basis of General Assembly resolution 194 (III), which emphasizes the right of return and compensation to the refugees. Persons who were displaced as a result of the June 1967 war must be able to return to their homes in implementation of Security Council resolution 237 (1967). The issue of Jerusalem is the key to peace in the region, and it must be solved on the premise that East Jerusalem is Palestinian territory occupied since 1967 to which resolution 242 (1967) applies. East Jerusalem should be under Palestinian sovereignty so that it may 30 become the capital of the independent State of Palestine. Arab and Muslim rights to the Islamic and Christian holy places in Jerusalem must be preserved. In no way can Israeli sovereignty over these holy places be accepted. The status of Jerusalem and its spiritual and religious importance make it imperative that the city be an open city where freedom of worship and access to the holy places is guaranteed for all believers in God. Jordan has suffered immensely during the past five decades as a result of the situation arising from the Palestine question, particularly the refugee problem. There are more than 1.5 million refugees living in Jordan. This amounts to 41 per cent of all refugees registered with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). This is in addition to the people displaced as a result of the June 1967 war. As a result of the refugee situation, Jordan has shouldered heavy financial, economic and social burdens. Jordan will be subject to pressures that will threaten its stability and that of the region if the settlement does not satisfy its legitimate vital interests. Refugees and displaced persons in Jordan will only accept a settlement that recognizes their fundamental rights to return and to compensation. It is well known that the vast majority of these refugees have Jordanian citizenship as a result of the unity that was established between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the West Bank in 1950. The declaration of unity at the time provided for the preservation of all Arab rights in Palestine and for the inalienability of the rights of the refugees. Upholding the right of return will, therefore, enable every refugee to exercise freely his or her personal choice. Jordan must safeguard and preserve the rights of its citizens, which is its responsibility under national and international laws. Any solution that does not satisfy the rights of Jordan and its citizens will not lead to the establishment of a just and lasting peace. Since the question of the refugees and their continued suffering has caused grave damage to Jordan and placed heavy burdens on it, Jordan demands rectification of the damage and losses that it has incurred. This rectification needs to include suitable and adequate compensation. Jordan will endeavour, by all possible means, to ensure that its legitimate claims with regard to this issue are considered. It is worth mentioning that the Jordanian-Israeli peace treaty stipulates that the solution of the refugee problem must be based on international law and that it should be dealt with bilaterally and in parallel with the permanent status negotiations. It also established a mechanism to deal with all financial claims between the two parties. The rights of refugees and displaced persons to return and to compensation, and the rights of Jordan under international law and the resolutions of international legitimacy, take precedence over other considerations. Jordan, therefore, will only accept a settlement that will preserve its legitimate rights and ensure a lasting and comprehensive peace in the region. Otherwise, the conflict will remain open and volatile, perpetuating the seeds of instability in the region. The position of the refugees in Jordan is vital to the success of any settlement to be reached. Also on the question of refugees, Jordan once again emphasizes the importance of supporting UNRWA to enable it to carry out its mandate, which must continue until a solution to this question is fully implemented. Jordan, as host to the largest number of refugees and the largest donor to UNWRA, expresses its appreciation of the Agency's role and calls upon the international community to provide it with the needed financial resources to carry out its humanitarian tasks, particularly at this sensitive phase of the peace process. It also expresses appreciation to the donor States for their contributions. Peace in the Middle East cannot last unless it is comprehensive. This makes the establishment of peace on the Syrian track essential and a sine qua non for peace in the region as a whole. Negotiations on this track must, therefore, resume in order to reach an agreement ensuring the return to Syria of the occupied Golan Heights to the line of 4 June 1967 in implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Israel's withdrawal from southern Lebanon on the basis of Security Council resolution 425 (1978) is a positive development that will hopefully serve as a foundation for the implementation of other Security Council resolutions, leading to the achievement of a comprehensive peace in the region, which has suffered for many decades from the depletion of its resources 31 and the energies of its peoples. Only peace will provide security for all. It should lead to ending the arms race and to using the resources for the development of the region and making it free from weapons of mass destruction. Ten years have passed since the beginning of the Gulf crisis caused by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. As a result, the region as a whole continues to suffer. Iraq continues to pay a heavy price as a result of continued comprehensive sanctions imposed on it, which caused and continue to cause unprecedented mass suffering for the Iraqi people. Jordan calls for launching a new thinking and a new look at the situation in Iraq in order to put an end to the suffering of the Iraqi people, especially since the collective sanctions, which are the severest of their kind in United Nations history, have not achieved their goal of consolidating peace and security. They have instead led to results that, in the long run, will give rise to dangers threatening the region as a whole. The need to implement and comply with Security Council resolutions does not conflict with the maintenance of Iraq's sovereignty and territorial integrity, nor with refraining from action that violates those resolutions. Iraq is an integral part of the region and its continued subjugation affects security and stability in the region as a whole. Jordan calls for the settlement of all matters related to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on the basis of full implementation of relevant Security Council resolutions, including those dealing with Kuwaiti and other prisoners of war, and missing persons. Jordan continues to suffer severe economic hardships as a result of compliance with relevant Security Council resolutions. Large segments of Jordan's economy have, as a result, sustained huge losses. It is, therefore, imperative to put an end to the negative effects of the sanctions on Jordan by showing better understanding of its situation, reviewing the policies and methods used in dealing with the sanctions regime and giving a more just interpretation to the relevant resolutions. Because of our strong belief in the role of the United Nations, Jordanian armed forces participate effectively in its peacekeeping operations in several areas around the world. As a result, Jordan today is the second largest troop contributor to peacekeeping operations. While commending the report (A/55/305) of Mr. Brahimi's Panel on United Nations peace operations, Jordan wishes to reiterate the need for the provision of adequate means and resources to enable peacekeepers to achieve their noble objectives. We call for a constructive and thorough discussion of the report in order to produce the best possible means to attain that goal. In this spirit, we underscore the importance of conducting consultations with States that contribute to peacekeeping operations, before the adoption of major decisions concerning and affecting the status of their forces. On another note, we feel that the startling developments witnessed by our world today, at various levels, make it increasingly necessary to rely on the United Nations to develop and establish norms in all matters pertaining to human security. The ongoing dialogue on the need to establish complementarity and balance between State sovereignty and human rights only reflects the importance of this issue. Sovereignty should not provide a cover for violating human rights. Hence, greater emphasis should be placed on the importance of objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality when dealing with human rights issues. It is illogical to continue to keep silent about the suffering of whole nations whose dignity is being undermined and whose human rights are being violated, while prominence is almost always given to other partial issues for purely political considerations. With the onset of the third millennium the world is entering a new epoch that necessitates the formation of a new pattern of relations in the international arena based on our collective responsibility to develop and safeguard what has been achieved so far. Our world needs to establish a new paradigm of international relations based not on confrontation and exclusion, but on new foundations of openness and real partnership. Integration, which encompasses the overlapping and interdependence of interests, presupposes partnership and solidarity among nations to help them manage change and ease the lack of confidence and hesitation associated with the fear of failure. The international community's willingness to encourage and support the will to change will certainly reinforce the capacity to deal with such change with minimum losses and convince those taking such a risk that today's world is not based on a zero-sum option and that the challenge that we all face is: How can man, regardless of ethnic background, economic situation or religious belief be the primary beneficiary of the 32 development achieved by humanity in modern times? This is the acid test we all face today. Will we succeed?On behalf of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, I congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I assure you of our full support and cooperation in the accomplishment of your tasks. Your skill and extensive experience in international affairs convince us that this session will be crowned with success. I am honoured to take this opportunity to extend our profound appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for his outstanding management of our affairs during the previous session, for his leadership role in the General Assembly and for his spirit of effective cooperation. We also thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his tireless efforts in the service of our Organization. His wise approach to the important issues and the reforms he is implementing in the United Nations deserve our support and cooperation at all levels. On behalf of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, I also congratulate Tuvalu on its admission to membership of the United Nations. (spoke in French) Considering the enormous responsibilities of the United Nations in peacekeeping, the defence of human rights and the promotion of social well-being, it is easy to see why, 55 years after its creation, the Organization still has a great deal to do. Given its varied activities, it needs more solid and up-to-date structures that are adapted to contemporary conditions; sufficient and reliable funding; sound, transparent and energetic management; and the ability to carry out its tasks in conformity with current priorities and specific regional concerns. The Millennium Summit further reaffirmed our Organization's essential role in this respect. That is why the United Nations new organizational plan must allow it to respond to the needs of today's world in the face of major upheavals that inspire intense introspection and consideration. Its reform is also necessary to guarantee sound and reliable structures, with equitably distributed duties, that will confirm its universal nature and ensure better results. Thus, it is particularly necessary to open the Security Council, the organ primarily responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, to other countries, as permanent and non-permanent members, in order to make it more representative and to ensure that its membership and working methods reflect present-day realities. At a time when the world is evolving and undergoing globalization, the island States and small, poor countries with limited resources are preoccupied by the threat of marginalization looming over them. In addition to the various crises besetting our countries, this state of affairs calls on us to address the urgent need for support, assistance and, especially, awareness of the dangers we are facing. First are the dangers arising from the immediate and long-term repercussions of the conflicts engulfing the planet, claiming millions of victims, most of them children, women and the elderly. Secondly, there are the dangers posed to the world by the ever-growing number of acts of terrorism. In this respect, it is important not only to be aware of the potential danger and to find effective means of countering it, but also to draw clear distinctions between and not to confuse the behaviour of people who act in contempt of law and human dignity with that of those who act primarily out of religious considerations. Thirdly, there are the dangers resulting from flagrant violations of human rights. To combat this problem, the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros 9 gives its full support to the implementation of the International Criminal Court, which should put an end to these abuses. The Republic is preparing to ratify the Statute soon, and it hopes that the implementation of the Court's jurisdiction will be effective. Fourthly, there are the dangers resulting from natural catastrophes and from the overall degradation of the environment — the increasing vulnerability of which is a source of serious concern for the world. The small land-locked States — developing countries of limited size — are particularly exposed to these dangers. Given the increasing severity of this problem, there is an increasingly urgent need to give priority to protecting ecological systems. Fifthly, there are the dangers posed by serious diseases from which our populations are suffering — diseases such as AIDS, malaria and many others, extreme poverty included. Sixthly, there are the dangers posed by the marginalization of the poor countries in the midst of a world undergoing rapid change, a world in which it is hard for these countries to find their way. Seventhly and finally, there are the dangers to which these same countries are exposed as a result of the external debt burden which absorbs a great deal of their attention and wreaks havoc on their national budgets. This is to say that in this first stage of our entry into the third millennium, there are many outstanding questions regarding the future of humanity, and these questions require careful consideration. The overall image presented by the world today is a sombre one. Also, as regards economic issues, it goes without saying that the world is facing a situation that calls for serious examination and for joint action by the development partners to support national, subregional and regional efforts. In the case of Africa, its overall economic problems are a source of concern because they have become aggravated as a result of the increasingly globalizing world and the great strain that external debt is placing on our economies. Further, it makes sense to be concerned about the future of a continent that has been marginalized, in particular as regards global trade and the information revolution, and afflicted by all kinds of plagues. It is essential that — in addition to the efforts of the individual countries and in the framework of regional integration — the continent benefit from the good offices of the international financial institutions in examining and addressing different problem areas. In this regard, I am pleased to here reiterate our appreciation for the efforts of the United Nations Development Programme to fight, alongside our Governments, all forms of underdevelopment. As a small landlocked developing country and as an African country, the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros is grappling with these kinds of problems. It cannot be denied that, despite our current situation, our Government is manifesting a firm will in searching for ways and means of lifting the country out of the hole in which it finds itself and of creating favourable conditions for improving the life of our society. The effort under way to clean up the public finances and to revive and restructure the national economy attest to the Comorian Government's determination to improve the socio-economic situation that has prevailed for many years in the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros. Our bilateral and multilateral partners have consistently supported these efforts; however, I need to reiterate the necessity of enhancing this assistance in order to help us meet the challenge of underdevelopment and, above all, to help us avoid falling victim to the perverse effects of globalization. We should also focus on the political situation of the world, which is today divided by various sorts of wars and crises, which are seriously upsetting the peace and security of peoples. Greater attention should be given to these two crucial objectives — objectives that form the very basis of our Organization — and greater thought should be given to how to vouchsafe them. This is why, on the subject of wars, I would like to appeal to the goodwill of the parties involved in the problem of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the entire Great Lakes region and to ask them to focus their efforts on démarches that can produce negotiated solutions to the disputes of these parties. As regards Somalia, my country is greatly pleased by the current happy outcome of the situation there and by the establishment of a transition Government. The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros hopes that the solid foundations have now 10 been established so that a lasting peace can be secured for this fraternal country. In the same vein, the Comorian Government appreciates the efforts made in the holding of the Camp David negotiations and salutes the work of the Government of the United States of America in this regard. The Comorian Government, which has supported and continues to support the Palestinian cause, hopes that these efforts will lead to a speedy resolution of the Middle East crisis — a resolution that will be in the interest of the peoples of that region who have so long suffered from incessant instability. The Comorian Government also believes that any solution to this crisis must include the establishment of an independent Palestinian State, with Al-Quds al-Sharif as its capital. Further, we proclaim the necessity of completely lifting the embargo against Libya, and also ask that the embargo against Iraq be lifted. We appeal to the Iraqi Government to cooperate more fully with the efforts to free the Kuwaiti prisoners. Conflict zones remain in all the continents. The Charter of the United Nations having been written for the peoples, the United Nations must enhance its efforts to prevent and resolve conflicts by peaceful means. In essence this means insisting on the urgent necessity of supporting the cause of world peace, because its absence handicaps all efforts to achieve real sustainable human development. In this regard, allow me to review the current situation in my country, the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, and to explain how disturbed the people are about the threat to peace posed by the separatist crisis that has been taking place on the sisterly island of Anjouan for close to three years. With the support of the international community — in particular, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the League of Arab States, the European Union, and International Organization of la Francophonie, and the Organization of the Islamic Conference — the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros has explored every means of putting an end to this crisis. The intransigence of the Anjouanese party after the declarations that were made during the inter-island conferences that were held at Addis Ababa and at Antananarivo have led the OAU to take repressive measures against this party — measures that were to be applied in a step-by-step fashion. The object of imposing the economic embargo against the sisterly island of Anjouan was to lead the Anjouanese to be reasonable. However, the situation has hardly changed, and during this time the lowest levels of Anjouanese society — along with all those who were supporting national unity — suffered terribly from the effects of these measures. Recognizing on the one hand that, given the hardening of the movement's position, this situation was victimizing the population of Anjouan, and particularly the poorest levels, and convinced on the other hand that we Comorians together might be able to come up with a non-military solution, the current leadership of the country, under the enlightened direction of Colonel Azali Assoumani, President of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros, has insisted on undertaking direct discussions with the Anjouanese party, in the hopes of arriving at national reconciliation. The attempts at initiating such a dialogue opened the way to the signing of an initial text on 1 July 1999 at Fomboni on the island of Mwali. This text is considered to represent a significant step on the part of the current regime — a step towards harmonizing the opposing points of view. The negotiations were continued recently, leading to the signing of a joint declaration, again in Fomboni on 26 August. This provides another appropriate framework for preserving the unity and territorial integrity of the Comoros, to which the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of The Gambia referred on 20 September. Because it allows dialogue to be initiated with our Anjouan brothers on the future Comorian entity, the declaration is of particular significance to Comorians. The Fomboni declaration makes it clear that the new Commorian entity is the sole subject of international law within the Comorian frontiers recognized by the international community. In order to push ahead with this process, a timetable was established spelling out the various stages leading to the submission to a referendum of the act which is to govern the future Comorian entity. I should like to make it clear that the Fomboni joint declaration takes account of, and respects, the spirit of the Antananarivo Agreement, which was rejected by the Anjouan party. Today, more than ever, there is hope that it will be possible to resolve this unfortunate problem by peaceful means and to lay the groundwork for a democratic State — a Comorian-style democracy, a democracy stemming from the living forces of the nation of the Comoros, without any outside interference or influence. Would it have been just to reject this breakthrough, thus penalizing innocent women and children who have been so sorely tried by the embargo, and then to envisage a military solution? If there had been resort to war in order to have peace, why not avoid it, if possible, and so prevent casualties? The Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros has committed itself to dialogue to settle conflicts, respecting the principles of our Organization. This wise principle was the basis of the Comorian authorities' approach to their brothers in Anjouan. I therefore appeal for understanding by all our partners who have always supported our efforts to find a negotiated lasting solution to this crisis. This is why, while respecting the position of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and that of all our other partners, I reiterate, on behalf of the Government of the Comoros, our determination to continue this struggle, together with them, in order to preserve the unity and territorial integrity of our country. The Government of the Comoros pays tribute to the Secretary-General of the OAU, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, for his personal efforts and his efforts through the OAU to resolve this crisis. We also express our wholehearted gratitude to the League of Arab States, as well as the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the International Organization of la Francophonie, the countries of the region and other friendly countries, including France, for their support. We earnestly hope that reason has finally prevailed with our brothers in Anjouan and that they have really understood that breaking up the covenant of unity and fraternity which links us and will always link us — Comorians of the four islands of our archipelago State — will not benefit anyone. We hope that we have all learned the lessons from events which have so seriously affected the country in human, material, psychological and other terms, and that we understand that war will always be a bad master and the worst choice. The process of reconciliation is a demanding task requiring a great deal of resources. In this connection, we make a pressing appeal to the international community to support the programme of reconstruction and national reconciliation which the Comorian Government has drawn up in conjunction with the World Bank. Faithful to the fundamental principles of the Charter, the Government of the Comoros continues to opt for the policy of dialogue and discussion to resolve all of the problems which confront us. With profound respect for these principles, we appeal to France, with which the Comoros has for long had close ties of friendship and cooperation, to contemplate a direct and constructive dialogue which will make it possible quickly to reach a negotiated solution with regard to reintegrating the Comorian island of Mayotte into its natural community. As stability, understanding, unity, harmony among our peoples, partnership and progress go hand in hand, creating conditions to guarantee these values would be the best gift which the international community can offer present and future generations on the eve of the next millennium. (spoke in Arabic) “If people one day want life Fate has no choice but to respond; Night has no choice but to yield to dawn And shackles cannot but be shattered.” I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. At the same time, I record my thanks and appreciation to your predecessor, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia. We are meeting just after the historic Millennium Summit, which brought together more than 150 leaders of the world. Clearly, there is not much left to say. On the other hand, there is much to be done. Urgent action is needed; the time for implementation is now. National action is needed more than ever in all countries. The fact is that each nation has the primary responsibility for dealing with its own problems. It is not sufficient to make visionary statements and well- intentioned commitments. The will to bring about change in our societies must be demonstrated in all nations. We should remember that we are the solution to our problems, and that if we are to be effective the partners of others, we must demonstrate a willingness to help ourselves. We must eliminate poverty. It is an indictment against humanity that in the twenty-first century more than a billion of the world's people are mired in the dehumanizing conditions of extreme poverty. Each country must adopt those policies necessary to engender growth in their economies and to ensure that all their citizens have access to the opportunities that are being created. It now behooves the international community to take concrete and positive action to bring to fruition the commitment made by heads of State or Government in the Millennium Declaration: to reduce poverty levels by the year 2015. Trinidad and Tobago has already taken action through an appropriate policy framework and other measures of reform. As a result, our economy continues to grow, and we are generating employment while keeping inflation low. We are making efforts to ensure that all our citizens benefit from the country's successes, and we are making strides towards the elimination of poverty and are today ranked very favourably in the United Nations Human Development Index. Education is the key. It is a powerful force for social change. It is a human right. It goes far beyond schooling. It assists in combating poverty, empowering women, promoting human rights and democracy and promoting international peace and security. According to the United Nations Children's Fund report, “The State of the World's Children 1999”, 130 million children in the developing world are denied the right to basic education. Regrettably, almost two thirds of them are girls. This cannot continue. All children must have access to all levels of education. This must be a national objective in every country. United Nations declarations by themselves will not help. Since independence, Trinidad and Tobago has placed considerable emphasis on education, which continues to rank among the largest items of Government expenditure. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago provide that education is mandatory for all children between the ages of five to 12 years. Tuition is free at public and Government-assisted schools. We continue to improve our system. Pre-school education has developed rapidly in Trinidad and Tobago, and 17 special education is also being given greater attention. In further recognition of the importance of education, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago recently embarked on a programme which will ensure free secondary education for every child of secondary school age, and this took effect with the opening of the new academic year 2000-2001. If people are not healthy, they can neither find fulfilment nor contribute to their country's development. The poor of the world need easier access to essential drugs and vaccines to reduce mortality and disability. It has to be a travesty that only one per cent of the budget of global health research is directed to diseases like pneumonia, diarrhoea, tuberculosis and malaria, all of which are concerns of developing countries. In Trinidad and Tobago, health care is given high priority. The health budget continues to be one of the major areas of Government expenditure and, through a decentralized system of regional health authorities, health care is made accessible and affordable to all. The Government is constantly investing in human resources and physical infrastructure to meet the demands of the population. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago has reduced the cost of medication for some chronic diseases, such as glaucoma, diabetes, asthma and arthritis. We are also ensuring that equipment for our physically challenged citizens is affordable. Every effort is being made to reduce the backlog of certain common surgical procedures. Next year, a National Health Insurance Pilot Project is expected to be instituted to cover every citizen. Under the proposed system, the Government will pay the contribution on behalf of those persons who cannot afford to do so. The ravages of the HIV/AIDS pandemic and its devastating socio-economic consequences constitute another of the major health-related challenges for the international community in the twenty-first century. The spread of the HIV/AIDS virus is of particular concern to the Caribbean, the second most seriously affected region. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago views this matter very seriously, and we have long embarked on a programme of action designed to combat this scourge. It is based on research and education and building partnerships with the public and private sectors, as well as actors in civil society. We are also convinced of the need for greater global partnership to develop an effective and more affordable vaccine against HIV/AIDS. The present HIV-related drugs should be made less expensive. We support the convening as well of a special session of the General Assembly to consider all aspects of this problem. Our planet continues to experience environmental degradation. The problem will never be solved unless there is international cooperation, especially on the part of industrialized countries, which are mainly responsible for the emission of greenhouse gases. We in the smaller countries, especially small island nations, are the most severely threatened. But even in a situation where we are victims, we do not absolve ourselves from responsibility. Trinidad and Tobago is already doing its part. We have established a Ministry of the Environment and an Environmental Management Authority. We have recently enacted legislation to empower this Authority. We have operationalized an environmental policing system, and we are now in the process of establishing a Green Fund, through which the industrialists in our country will contribute to financing programmes for protecting the environment. The Government is working in close collaboration with the international community on environmental issues and, in this regard, we are a State Party to all of the major Conventions concerning the environment. Trinidad and Tobago is actively involved in the development of national legislation to give effect to these international treaties. I must join my Caribbean Community (CARICOM) colleagues in lamenting the blatant and persistent misuse of the Caribbean Sea as a trans- shipment route for hazardous wastes. This continues to be a cause for major concern to the Governments of the region. We are not comforted by the assurances of compliance by those who use this route for economic gain. A single accident can threaten the very viability of our societies. Can the commercial benefit from using this route override its potentially horrendous consequences? Accidents can occur, and we again call for a halt to these shipments. No country can progress without democracy and good governance, which create the environment for progress and development, peace and security. All citizens must be included in the mainstream of national activity. All must be allowed to contribute. Every voice must be heard; every view considered; and every citizen must have access to the opportunities that their societies create. This should be the primary responsibility of every Government in every country. Government must also be based on the rule of law. 18 Each nation, therefore, has the responsibility to develop effective judicial and legal systems to both protect the rights of the individual and guard the nation against any usurpation of its democratic systems. We in Trinidad and Tobago are proud of our strong democratic traditions. Free and fair elections are held peacefully, regularly and on time. There is freedom of speech and of political association and freedom of the press. Our democratic tradition is buttressed by a very active civil society, involving strong trade unions, dynamic social and cultural groups and other non- governmental actors. We have an independent judiciary, and we have recently embarked on the modernization of our laws and legal system to keep our country in step with modern trends. Each Government has the duty to ensure the security of both its State and citizens. One of the serious threats to security is the escalation of the worst kinds of crimes within national borders in many countries. This battle against the criminal element is faced by all societies, on differing levels, but it is a battle to which Governments must, of necessity, allocate adequate resources if they are to maintain peace and foster development. In many developing countries, the rise in the level of violent crime is directly related to poverty and the deprivation suffered by individuals. This link between poverty and development on the one hand, and peace and security on the other, should not be minimized. Like most countries, Trinidad and Tobago is battling the phenomenon of crime. In addition to allocating increased resources to our protective services, to provide them with manpower, infrastructure and equipment to deal with crime, we are implementing social programmes to combat deviant behaviour, through the Ministries of Education, Culture, Social Development, Youth and Sport. Trinidad and Tobago continues to face the challenges of the illicit traffic in drugs. Due to our geographic location, we are used as a convenient transhipment point in the drug trade. We have taken all measures available to us on the national, regional and international fronts to combat this menace to our society. The Government has, in this regard, established an agency to coordinate the overall efforts against drug trafficking and has entered into regional and bilateral arrangements for cooperation in combating this serious crime. Our strengthened legal framework has led to successes in the investigation and prosecution of crimes associated with drug trafficking. Legislative measures include the Dangerous Drugs Act, the Drug Court Bill, the Drug Abuse Rehabilitation Tribunal Bill and the Proceeds of Crime Bill. At the international and regional levels, cooperative efforts include a number of bilateral extradition and mutual legal assistance agreements. In July, 2000, Trinidad and Tobago, along with six other Governments, signed an agreement establishing a regional justice protection programme, which provides a framework for regional cooperation in the protection of witnesses, jurors and legal and law enforcement personnel. While we will continue to strengthen existing measures and to expand the spheres of cooperation, we wish to reiterate that this is a problem which the international community cannot successfully tackle without the necessary commitment of all States concerned. Another growing threat, which is closely related to the menace of the drug trade, is the illicit trade in small arms. We therefore attach great significance to the convening of the 2001 United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, and we fully support the very important preparatory work which will precede the Conference. The disease of racism, racial discrimination and religious intolerance continues to plague the world as we enter twenty-first century. This is an intractable cultural problem that can be ameliorated only through education and enlightenment. It is the expectation of my delegation that the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, to be held in South Africa at the end of August 2001, will produce action-oriented recommendations to eliminate this scourge. No effort should be spared to rid human civilization of this ugly affliction. As a pluralistic society, Trinidad and Tobago is proud of its record of harmony. In our country, as immortalized in our national anthem, every creed and race find an equal place. We have become well known as a rainbow society and at present we are seeking to create the institutions and the legal framework to even further deepen our world-renowned harmony. Whilst I have thus far emphasized the need for national action, we are fully aware that cooperation at an international level is absolutely necessary if we are 19 to deal effectively with the problems of our planet. In this global village, no country can survive on its own. Today's reality is globalization, borderlessness and integration at the international, regional and subregional levels. The United Nations, therefore, like all other international actors, has a pivotal role to play. For example, the international financial institutions must become more sensitive to the development needs of countries and the world trading system must take into account the special concerns of the disadvantaged and the vulnerable. As we have already demonstrated, Trinidad and Tobago is willing to be an active participant in the concerted effort of the international community to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves. We have always proven this since becoming a member of this body. We have participated, we have cooperated and sometimes, as with the International Criminal Court, we have led the way. We wish to achieve a humane global civilization. We wish to bequeath to the future a planet of prosperity and peace for allOn behalf of the people of Djibouti, it is a great pleasure indeed to extend our sincere greetings to one and all at this Millennium Assembly. May I also, Mr. President, convey our congratulations on your election. Your vast and varied experience will serve the Assembly well. I should also like to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, for the excellent work done and the achievements registered. He showed great skill and commitment in his task. Clearly the accomplishments of the fifty- fourth session were, to a large extent, due to his leadership, dedication and tireless efforts. No organization, particularly one such as the United Nations, can survive for any length of time if beset, as it is, with mounting demands and dwindling resources, and without deft, tenacious and imaginative leadership. The trials and tribulations of the United Nations have continued unabated during the past year. It has had to restore peace and to tackle wars, conflicts, natural disasters and disease while also addressing development. The list of difficulties goes on. Yet the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has managed to strengthen the Organization and make it better suited to meet the demands of the times. Under his enlightened guidance, the United Nations continues to play a credible and meaningful international role. We are fortunate indeed. This being the last General Assembly session of the decade, the century and indeed the millennium, it is the ideal time for us to reflect on the state of the world and of its peoples. There has been an all-pervading desire on the part of the United Nations and its Member States, to see fresh momentum in order to generate the necessary energy to deal with the new millennium and address critical issues. We have come to realize that the strength of our resolve and our determination to deal with the challenge of securing a better, safer and healthier world for its inhabitants will be decisive for the future of humankind. In many respects, however, it is still an open question. It is perhaps a sign of the times when any overview of the world today must give prominence to the fact that the world is being ravaged by a disease, namely AIDS. This deadly epidemic is continuing to spread. We are all aware of its terrible toll, particularly in Africa, where it is decimating youth, the professional classes, the labour force and health-care systems. The will of the international community will be put to the test, and we will see how it responds in crisis situations. Last year I noted that dialogue had been renewed between Palestine and Israel, which opened a promising opportunity for charting a new course in the Middle East. While it is true that the recent Camp David peace talks are still suspended, nonetheless a great deal was accomplished in terms of fully exploring the scope and diversity of the issues under consideration. There was at least a workable level of trust and a clear willingness to discuss the key “final status” issues of borders, settlements, water, refugees, statehood and, above all, the status of Jerusalem. It is difficult, however, to imagine any resolution or settlement that would not include Palestinian control of East Jerusalem. Israel's continued claim to the entire city, which would include control of Muslim holy sites in the Old City, adjoining Muslim and Christian quarters and selected Arab villages, would be counterproductive to peace. Any mention of the Middle East must, of course, include a reference to the enormous loss suffered by Syria and the world at large with the death of the long- serving President of Syria, Hafez Al-Assad. We wish the new President, Bashar Al-Assad, all the best in his efforts to follow in the footsteps of his illustrious father. In my address last year, I touched upon the spread and intensity of wars; rebel and splinter movements; and factional fighting in Africa. Sadly, while there have been some encouraging developments, a basic uncertainty remains. Fortunately, fighting between Djibouti's neighbours, Ethiopia and Eritrea, has ceased, and troop redeployment and the deployment of United Nations observers are expected to take place soon under the ceasefire arrived at under the auspices of the Organization of African Unity. The level of death and destruction in these hostilities simply defies the imagination, and the sight of so many civilians displaced from their homes and deprived of their livelihood, crowded into camps on both sides, is truly a disheartening experience. It is high time for the member countries of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) to opt for a comprehensive peace and cessation of hostilities in this subregion, in order collectively to focus on development and address the serious challenges posed by environmental disasters, such as the current looming drought. As concerns other parts of Africa, the persisting conflict in Angola is still with us, although Government forces appear to be gaining the upper hand. Regarding the conflict in Sierra Leone, the sudden international concern to see that the belligerents are not allowed to sell the precious minerals of their country on the world market should, it is to be hoped, reduce their capacity to wage war. This may be particularly true for both these countries. We are pleased to see the measures being taken by the De Beers group and the Belgian authorities to close 12 international access to these bloodstained commodities. Similar action must be taken with respect to other commodities as well. Undoubtedly, the most ominous threat to the continent at present lies in its centre, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the ceasefire arranged last year has suffered a number of setbacks. The United Nations has been unable to deploy troops as envisaged. Talks between the Government and the opposition appear to have broken off, raising the dangerous spectre of a return to civil war, which could be disastrous for the entire continent. The distraught people of that nation deserve a respite from instability and insecurity in order to be able to enjoy normal lives. In all these critical areas, be it the AIDS crisis, ever-growing poverty, wars, the environment, human rights abuses, weapons of mass destruction or lack of development, the United Nations remains the only Organization with the requisite experience and know- how to focus and refine the disparate efforts of humankind. Decisions regarding the maintenance of international peace and security lie with the Security Council, which, with the explosion of United Nations membership over the last three decades, has become a not very representative body. If we are to restore confidence in its decisions, there has to be, at all costs, an expansion in its membership, both permanent and non-permanent, with the extension of permanent membership to both developed and non-developed countries. The Council should also have access to better information on unstable regions, and a rapid response capability. Furthermore, when serious humanitarian crises are unfolding, measures to limit the spread and impact of conflict should be taken on a selective, case-by-case basis, but across the board by all Members. Like last year, I again intend to dwell on the problem of Somalia, and I again request the indulgence of the Assembly. At that time, Somalia was on the verge of total disintegration, following years of political paralysis. Urgent measures were needed to reverse this tragedy, a tragedy to which the international community had grown largely indifferent. The mood was simply one of waiting for the warlords to eliminate one another until a victor emerged with whom business could be done. In the meantime, those individuals carried out systematic dismantling, destruction and looting of the Somali nation, ignoring consistent calls to change their reckless and criminal behaviour. This, however, cannot be tolerated any longer. The people have spoken at last. They have decided against endless uncertainty and aberration. They were sapped of their strength. The people have now opted for government, law and order, and a better future. We urge the international community, therefore, to respect the will of the Somali people, and to refuse to continue to cooperate with those destructive elements that made Somalia synonymous with chaos and violence. Somalia as a nation, as an entity, seemed condemned to a slow death, unable to expect either regional or international intervention or a positive change in the behaviour of the warlords. Saving Somalia, therefore, necessitated moving away from the usual practice, which revolved around a few, familiar, self-anointed representatives of the people. Rather than provide them with yet another opportunity to play their game of deception, I suggested that it was time to move beyond them; time to empower the Somali people; time the Somali people assumed responsibility for their own destiny. There needed to be a conference of all the actors, the ultimate objective of which would be the re- establishment of peace, government, legitimacy and reconstruction. I believe that a true reconciliation of all segments of Somali society would tap into the popular mood of the Somali people, who overwhelmingly rejected the status quo. There was at last a burning desire for change; a change that would transform the lives of the people and would restore respect, dignity and integrity; one that meant peace, security and development. For the first time, there was an alternative in sight: not the power of the gun, but the power of the people. The peace process was designed to embrace the whole country, including regions that enjoyed relative peace and stability. It was to be comprehensive, inclusive and transparent, excluding no individual, group, sector or region. But beyond comprehensive reconciliation, the goal was to create a national framework leading to an administration that represented the people fairly, protected their basic rights and values and guaranteed liberty and justice for all. Somalia, after all, was a nation that had gone without a government during the longest period of State collapse in the modern era. It 13 was a country where the law of the gun, lust for power and vengeance dominated the landscape, until fear and ruthlessness had decimated every opportunity for peace. The predictable outcome was a social and institutional collapse without parallel in this century. The key aspect of the Djibouti-led IGAD peace process was its bottom-up approach, which emphasized community participation in discussions, slowly consolidating the gains achieved. This process not only was cumbersome, slow, painful, frustrating and visibly fragile at times, but also endured international scepticism and indifference. All along, we insisted on the openness, independence and integrity of the process to enable the majority of unarmed Somalis, including elders, traditional and religious leaders, scholars, women, politicians, the youth and the civil society at large, to own the process. Accordingly, our efforts were directed towards safeguarding the conceptual framework and rejecting all conditional offers of assistance, material or otherwise, while always remaining open or receptive to ideas or proposals that deepened and enriched the process. The conference itself represented the culmination of a series of consultations, meetings, symposiums and contacts that took place over the first six months of the year. Its objective was to overcome and resolve some of the most divisive and emotional national issues. The elaborate, extensive and admittedly costly preparations were necessary to heal the painful past and formulate sensible humanitarian and political guarantees and safeguards. Never again should there be toleration of the kind of hateful human rights violations and gross abuses of power that had destroyed the country. While the process took time and went through several phases, it enabled delegates to address all aspects of Somalia's collapse, spurred by the strong desire for peace prevailing in the country. The cornerstone of the process was the key role played by the traditional leaders, particularly in the achievement of the broadest possible reconciliation among the Somali clans. For long stretches of time, amounting to years, there had been virtually no contact between them, allowing each to pile up grievances throughout the conflict. Slowly and painfully, the conference persistently addressed complex political issues, while striving to overcome deep animosities and implacable attitudes. The very critical first phase of the conference began on 2 May and concluded in early June. It was the most important phase, for we must bear in mind that more than 200 elders and traditional leaders from every part of the country were coming together for the first time — not the first time in 10 years, but the first time in the entire existence of Somalia as a State — seeking to overcome a decade of frustration, fear, anger, suspicion and mistrust, without ever having had contact with each other before. Slowly, this legacy of the past was overcome and replaced with a common purpose: the search for a new destiny and a sense of the need to act at all costs. Through the wisdom, persistence and sincerity of these elders, it was possible to complete the reconciliation and to establish solid structures for the second phase. The core political choices could then be made. The second phase began on 15 June, with the participation of over 2,000 delegates. The setting of this conference bore no resemblance to any in the past, because this one took place in a giant tent. There were no class or social distinctions evident among the participants, who included women, representatives of all minorities, a number of warlords and, of course, the entire clan mosaic of Somalia. Proceedings were covered by satellite and on the Internet in order to enable Somalis everywhere in the world to keep abreast of developments. Participants outnumbered the residents in Arta, the hill-top resort town, which was the venue for the conference. Nearly every resident contributed to the conference one way or another, particularly in accommodating this huge and sudden influx of visitors. This phase of the conference made it possible to address many issues, from civil strife, human rights, healing and reconciliation, the economy, the political structure, disarmament, transitional mechanisms such as the interim constitution, the legislation, the government and the judiciary system. Slowly, an irreversible momentum, a feeling of rebirth, took shape. In a real sense, it was Somalia's second independence, this time not from colonialism but from chaos and utter hopelessness. After one month of intensive drafting and debate, an interim constitution, or charter, was adopted. It established the number of representatives, including a quota for women, in the new assembly and the modalities for their election. This major step in the process signalled the beginning of a truly nationwide 14 reconciliation effort, as it contained a series of accommodations, including a clan-based system as the political mechanism for power sharing during the three-year interim authority. The resulting transitional national authority could therefore be a highly workable vehicle for both the parties who are for the process and the troublemakers. No one, though, should take either the reconciliation process or the new institutions as shielding any individual from past misdeeds or war crimes. This is among the challenges that will confront future constitutional Governments of Somalia. Let me say that 26 August 2000 is a date which will forever stir the hearts and spirits of Somalis. It was on this date that Somalia's interim parliament elected the country's first president in more than a decade. Starting with a field of 25 candidates, voting was completed after several rounds and more than ten hours of bargaining and negotiating in order to secure cross- clan support within the Assembly to win the necessary majority. Interest among Somali viewers for the conference and the elections was certainly heightened by up-to-the-minute radio and satellite coverage, which permitted Somalis everywhere to follow the elections and the debates that had preceded them since the beginning of the process. The man chosen from among the candidates is here with us today. This man in the news is Abdikassim Salad Hassan, the new President of Somalia, a seasoned, urbane, and a highly experienced politician, who has already demonstrated his rare skills through a series of visits and engagements, both inside Somalia and externally. I wholeheartedly congratulate him and welcome him and his delegation most warmly in this Assembly. What a joy to see Somalia retake its rightful place among the community of nations! The realization of having a president at last fills Somalis everywhere with emotional exuberance. People are dancing and singing in the streets in what was described as a spontaneous national holiday. We wish to express our deepest gratitude to the member States of IGAD and to Yemen who were represented at the highest level to witness the swearing-in ceremony of the new president; we are equally grateful to Saudi Arabia, France, Egypt, Libya, Italy, Kuwait, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the League of Arab States and the United Nations for having sent high level delegations. And, of course, we wish to thank the entire diplomatic community in Djibouti for their presence and steadfast support. Undoubtedly, we fully acknowledge the realism and genuine understanding so readily displayed throughout this process by the other immediate neighbours of Somalia, namely Kenya and Ethiopia. We have also received tremendous comfort from the continued encouragement and support from the Secretary-General and his able staff both in New York and in the region, particularly, from his Special Representative, Mr. David Stephen, and his staff, whose presence in the conference throughout the process proved remarkably beneficial. Equally, the unfailing commitment demonstrated by the Security Council throughout its series of statements since the launch of the initiative has been a source of constant comfort. Obviously, the peace process invariably enjoyed full and unambiguous backing of IGAD, OAU, the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the European Union. We are deeply appreciative of their steady and principled stand. The Somali people will be forever grateful. Following the formation of the new Somali parliament, the Security Council reiterated that the preservation of the territorial integrity of the country was the precondition for overall normalization in Somalia and recommended that regional organizations work towards that end. Some discordant voices have been raised questioning the acceptance of the new Government and its ability to return to Somalia. Some scoffed it would be a phantom government-in-exile, lacking legitimacy and resources. However, the triumphant return as well as the ecstatic welcome from the public of the new President-elect, Abdikassim, into Mogadishu, the centre of conflict, and the unprecedented show of support from all militiamen, including those allied to faction leaders, put the baseless stories to rest once and forever. For those individuals who chose to oppose the creation of a representative and democratic Government, presumably because they are no longer at centre stage in Somalia, they need to come to terms with reality. A generous hand has been extended to all those people to join their peace-loving neighbours in supporting the talks, and now the Government. In fact, I personally invited and met with several of them in Djibouti for discussions in order to assure them there 15 was a place for everyone in the new Somalia under its proposed federal structure. Now, with a Government in place, the ball is in their court. We can only hope that they will make good use of the remaining opportunity for reconciliation and accommodation by placing the country first before their personal interests. The rebirth of Somalia opens unlimited possibilities for Somalis throughout the world to rebuild their country. With the expected gradual return to normality in the country, the diaspora will have the incentive to invest in their homeland, bringing the capital and expertise needed to create employment opportunities for the youth. It is to be hoped that the international community will mobilize emergency assistance for Somalia to enable the Government to lead the country, re-establish itself and re-create basic institutions and capacities. In the meantime, planning for medium- and long-term development must begin with the support of international financial institutions, the donor community, the United Nations and regional organizations. Finally, let me state with all candour that for us in Djibouti this process has strained our meagre resources, but neither our resolve nor our faith. It has challenged our courage and perseverance, but our commitment has not wavered. Our people have made an exemplary effort and sacrifice. May this endurance test of our people, and of the Somali people as well, serve as a source of inspiration and mark the beginning of what could be a major accomplishment for the Horn of Africa, and indeed for Africa and mankind as a whole.Let me congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over this fifth-fifth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that your well-known experience in the fields of politics and diplomacy will ensure the success of our work. To your predecessor, Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab, I would like to convey my delegation's appreciation of his dynamic and successful leadership of the fifty- fourth session. I would like also to congratulate the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the remarkable contribution made by his report, We the peoples, which provides a solid foundation for our discussions and for our common efforts to place this Organization increasingly in the service of our community of nations. It is with satisfaction that I extend my warmest congratulations to Tuvalu, a member of the community of small island developing States, on its admission to the United Nations. During the current session of the General Assembly, important meetings will take place that will address issues vital to the international community. These issues include financing for development; racism and racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance; and the development of the least developed countries. These global meetings will certainly significantly enrich the set of consensus documents which we have successfully produced, particularly during the 1990s, and which are intended to provide us with essential frameworks for the optimization of an updated international cooperation. As is well known, this resource has not been exploited to any great extent. North-South dialogue continues to be affected by reciprocal accusations between worlds separated by gross disparities in the level of well-being. The world needs to be governed well and in a spirit of cooperation if we really wish to achieve development, justice and peace in a climate of social stability. And yet, on both the national and international levels, the privileged continue to deny others open participation and a fair share. Thus, the question of governance arises at all levels. But at each level, those in whose interest it is to maintain the status quo use the other level's deficiencies to justify their own inaction. It is a perverse logic to think that our partners' errors authorize us to err as well. This is a pattern of behaviour, and even an assertion, which has been portrayed as reflecting a reality of life; how this is to be overcome has yet to be clarified. It will be some time before we see even the immediate results of that great dialogue between world leaders, the Millennium Summit. However, we are confident that results will not fail to emerge. At the 24 highest level, the meetings between international leaders served as a platform for the growing, insistent affirmation that we have the know-how and the means to solve the problems of our societies and of the common ground on which we live. What we lack is the appropriate implementation of decisions and the necessary will to do so. By this, I mean the political will to accomplish collectively what is necessary and sufficient so that we may achieve progress for all humankind, a long-time goal of our ideology and our discourse. Awareness of the need for this political will stem from the underlying belief that we make up, and are part of, an interdependent international community whose essence links the destinies of all to the success or failure of a single endeavour. Meanwhile, in the blend of competition and cooperation that characterizes international relations, the scale is still weighted in favour of a framework of inequalities, asymmetries and egotism that increasingly impairs our capacities and our imagination in the effort to achieve general progress and well-being. Thus, a vital question is that of the extent to which we will see, at the international level, and particularly in the case of those who benefit most from the current situation, a growing belief in the existence of true independence and in the urgency of the need for coordination and cooperation commensurate with such global interdependence. At the same time, we need to view globalization not as it is today exclusive, fragmented and offering opportunities only to a select few but rather as a process that will increasingly reveal and establish the world as a single body. The Millennium Summit once again posed the question of the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century. I believe that our universal Organization has an essential role to play as a catalyst for the tangible realization of the concept of international community inscribed within its Charter and as a basis for its political vision. In the world of today and tomorrow, where events are the result of action by a variety of decision makers, the promotion of such an endeavour by the United Nations presupposes the involvement of all parties concerned that is, Governments, of course, but also parliaments, the general public, organizations of civil society, the private sector, the media, and so forth. All of them can and should be included in this undertaking, the purpose of which is to reveal the convergence transcending the apparent contradictions. As a free, universal association of States, the United Nations has as its mission, and should make itself able, to gather the world's voices and to give them room for dialogue in pursuit of higher platforms of understanding. In that regard, the fundamental values embodied in the Millennium Declaration provide a lasting source of inspiration. In the short term, however, we need a consistent set of measures in order to create an enabling environment for development in which poverty eradication can be sustainably achieved. The priorities to be considered in developing such measures will vary to some extent. In the areas of greatest poverty, such as the African continent, it is certainly essential to reverse the decline in public health and to devote the necessary resources to improving the quality and expanding the scope of public education. In today's world, there can be no development unless the people have reached a minimum level of health and education, and unless the country in question has reached a reasonable level of infrastructure, without which it cannot viably accept the economic investment that it needs. Furthermore, countless developing countries continue to hope for lasting solutions to the core problem of an unsustainable debt burden, solutions to replace the long string of half-measures, always too little and too late, with which this issue has been addressed in the past. Even with adequate economic policies, a responsible administration and a productive society, States' capacity to make real, continued progress will be significantly limited if they face restricted access to international markets and if tariff and non-tariff barriers are imposed on them. Particularly in the case of the least developed countries, these constraints may make it impossible for them to integrate into the global economy. Before closing, I wish to express my deepest concern at the form and intensity of the conflicts that continue to affect the daily lives of various countries and their peoples, with disastrous consequences at the internal and regional levels. In that regard, it is with the greatest apprehension that we view the current situation in Sierra Leone, a country of our subregion; and we hope that the recently developed measures 25 involving the coordination of efforts by the United Nations and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) will help restore to the people of Sierra Leone the peace and stability to which they are entitled. Cape Verde continues to follow closely the situation in Angola, a country with which we share a long history. Owing to the refusal of UNITA to respect the relevant Security Council resolutions and to comply with the provisions of the Lusaka Protocol, the humanitarian drama that affects the Angolan people and, in particular, the massive numbers of refugees and displaced persons, has reached intolerable levels. The international community should therefore give the highest priority to providing humanitarian assistance to Angola. In East Timor, the laudable efforts of the United Nations augur well for the exercise of direct sovereignty and self-determination in the near future. However, there are signs of continued efforts to disrupt this process. The recent murder of international civil servants serving as peacekeepers merits the deepest condemnation of the international community and adequate measures by the Security Council. The role of the United Nations, increasingly focused on the value and dignity of human beings, requires each of us -- large and small, rich and poor -- to wager confidently on the solidarity of our common efforts as the touchstone in our collective search for solutions to the problems affecting our planet.   First, I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to you, Sir, a former Prime Minister of the Republic of Finland, on your assumption of the office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I would also like to pay my respects to Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of the Republic of Namibia, for all his efforts during his tenure as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session. It is also my great pleasure to welcome the admission of Tuvalu as a new Member of the United Nations. Before proceeding to my main topic, I would like to mention two important developments that took place in the international community in recent months. Concerning the situation on the Korean peninsula, the recent inter-Korean summit was indeed epoch-making and I strongly hope that this positive development will continue, advance in the future and lead to peace and stability in North-East Asia. With regard to the Middle East peace process, Japan is very much encouraged by the commitment of both parties to continuing their negotiations and, together with the international community, will strongly support the efforts of the parties to achieve a lasting peace in the region. In order to ensure that the twenty-first century is truly a century of peace, it is of the greatest importance that the international community make united efforts to address the issues of disarmament and non- proliferation. In 1945, Hiroshima and Nagasaki became the first two cities in human history to suffer indescribable nuclear devastation. That experience is the starting point of Japan's actions aimed at the realization of a world free of nuclear weapons. With succeeding generations in this half-century, the extremely shocking experiences of Hiroshima and Nagasaki might very well be pushed to the edge of our memory. In such circumstances, new signs of proliferation of nuclear weapons and missiles are arousing our concern. I believe, however, that engraving the tragic experiences of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in our minds is the first step toward the creation of a world free from the nuclear threat, which is one of the biggest challenges facing the United Nations. In light of such experiences, Japan has maintained the three non-nuclear principles as its fundamental national policy and has focused particular attention on nuclear issues. It will continue to stress the importance of this issue. Since the Second World War, we have adopted as the basic ideas of our nation: democracy, commitment to peace and respect for fundamental human rights, which are enshrined in the Japanese Constitution. Moreover, under its basic policy of not becoming a military power, Japan has mobilized all its available resources for the prosperity of its people and achieved economic development. It hopes to utilize that experience and make a further contribution to the economic development and enhancement of the welfare of developing countries. Throughout my political career, I have been deeply committed to nuclear disarmament and non- proliferation issues. A senior politician for whom I have great respect once told me with great fervour: I hope that somebody among the peoples of the world will take the lead in advocating peace, and that all others will cooperate for that cause, so that the earth will avoid a crisis. I believe that Japan must play the role of that somebody. These words have become my political credo, as well as the resolve of many Japanese people. When I was Foreign Minister in 1994, Japan submitted to the General Assembly for the first time a resolution entitled Nuclear disarmament with a view to the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons (49/75 H), which gained the support of an overwhelming majority of Member States. Japan's support of the indefinite extension of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in 1995 is attributed to the strong will of the Japanese people. I highly appreciate the final document adopted at the 2000 NPT Review Conference this spring, since it contains practical steps to be taken in the future in the fields of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, including an unequivocal undertaking to accomplish the total elimination of nuclear arsenals. I also appreciate the postponement by the United States Government of its decision to deploy a national missile defence, as a result of prudent consideration with an emphasis on further dialogue on this important issue. Japan hopes that this announcement will inspire a further deepening of the discussion on issues surrounding national missile defence. I hope other countries respond to this move by taking actions to avoid a vicious circle of an arms race and to create a beneficent circle toward nuclear disarmament. The international community must continue its efforts aimed at non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and demand that the nuclear weapon States further reduce their nuclear arsenals. This will definitely require a further reduction 14 by the United States and Russia in their nuclear weapons through the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks (START), as well as efforts by other nuclear weapon States, unilaterally or through their negotiations, to reduce their nuclear arsenals. I also believe that we must seriously consider what kind of practical paths we should take to realize a world free from the fear of nuclear weapons. A world free of nuclear weapons is not a dream; it is within our reach. To that end Japan will submit to this session of the General Assembly a draft resolution on the elimination of nuclear weapons, which sets forth a path towards the realization of a world free of nuclear weapons, while ensuring the non-proliferation of weapons of mass-destruction. It does so through measures such as the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) and the immediate commencement and early conclusion of negotiations on the fissile material cut-off treaty, as well as the promotion of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty III negotiations, and through further, deeper reductions at a later stage in nuclear arsenals, leading in the final stage to total elimination. Japan expects that this resolution will gain wide support from the international community. Further, I would like to point out the importance of concluding negotiations on the protocol to the Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) by the year 2001, and strengthening efforts to cope with missile proliferation. Now I would like to discuss international efforts for conflict prevention. For the effective prevention of conflicts, it is important to employ various policy measures in a comprehensive and effective manner. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan advocates, it is incumbent upon the international community to nurture a culture of prevention. The G-8 Miyazaki Initiatives for Conflict Prevention, which was drawn up at the G-8 Foreign Ministers meeting in Miyazaki, over which I presided, embodies this idea of a culture of prevention. On the issue of small arms and light weapons, in which Japan has been actively engaged, the G-8 countries made clear for the first time that they will not authorize the export of small arms if there is a clear risk that these might be used for repression or aggression against another country. I hope this achievement will lead to the success of next summer's United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. Moreover, at Japan's initiative, a fund relating to small arms was established at the United Nations this spring. The purpose of this fund is to extend assistance for the collection of small arms and the reintegration of ex- combatants into civilian society. Under the G-8 Miyazaki Initiatives for Conflict Prevention, we will actively work to strengthen such development assistance that contributes to preventing the outbreak or recurrence of conflicts. For this purpose, Japan will promote its collaboration with non- governmental organizations by, for example, providing assistance for their emergency humanitarian activities and dispatching joint study missions for emergency rehabilitation. In recent years, United Nations peacekeeping operations have had to be deployed more rapidly. Moreover, as the examples of Kosovo and East Timor have shown, peacekeeping operations are now required to carry out diverse mandates that include humanitarian assistance, emergency rehabilitation and even civil administration. To make possible the rapid and effective deployment of such peacekeeping operations, strengthening the Secretariat's functions as well as more, quick-response cooperation on the part of the international community are all the more important. Japan welcomes the report and recommendations by the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations established at the initiative of the Secretary-General. The continued high toll in human life among United Nations personnel taking part in peacekeeping operations and humanitarian missions is a matter of profound concern. Recently there was an unforgivable militia attack on the local office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in West Timor. Measures must be taken to ensure the safety of United Nations personnel through close cooperation between the United Nations, the country concerned, and its neighbouring countries. With regard to United Nations peace operations, Japan intends to continue to do its best, including personnel and financial contributions to peacekeeping operations and assistance for emergency rehabilitation, democratization and the establishment of legal 15 frameworks, as well as assistance to international organizations. Poverty reduction is a high-priority issue for the leader of every country. Japan, consistently aware of the importance of this issue, has been providing more aid than any country in the world for nine consecutive years, since 1991. Henceforth, considering what would be most effective for the development of developing countries, Japan will continue to make active efforts on development issues in cooperation with those countries. It accordingly intends to contribute towards the success of the high-level international and intergovernmental event on financing for development expected to be held in 2001 under the aegis of the United Nations and others. Moreover, it is extremely valuable that developing countries that have achieved certain levels of development put their own experience and know- how to use in providing assistance to other developing countries. Japan, in collaboration with the United Nations and other organizations, will strengthen its endeavours for South-South cooperation. Concerning Africa, where poverty is an especially serious issue, Japan twice hosted the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD) in 1993 and 1998. It intends to continue to actively cooperate for African development through the TICAD process. Bearing in mind the possibility of also hosting a third such conference, Japan is considering holding a ministerial-level meeting before the end of fiscal year 2001, and would like to ask for the cooperation of the countries and organizations concerned. In April Japan hosted the second Japan-South Pacific Forum summit meeting, at which it, together with small island States burdened with geographically disadvantageous conditions, put forward a common vision and a course for mid- and long-term cooperation. Moreover, this fall Japan will hold the first ministerial-level conference with the countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). As for the issue of sustainable development in landlocked States, it is Japan's policy to extend active cooperation for the improvement and development of their transportation infrastructure, and other matters. Regarding the debt problem of the heavily indebted poor countries, Japan has decided to contribute up to a total of $200 million to the Trust Fund of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative of the World Bank. It will continue to make its utmost efforts for the speedy and effective implementation of the enhanced HIPC Initiative, for example, by extending technical assistance to heavily indebted poor countries as they prepare their poverty- reduction strategies. As we enter the twenty-first century we are faced with various issues, such as conflicts, poverty, refugees, human rights violations, health, crime, terrorism and environmental degradation. Also we need to build communities in which the rights of women, children and various vulnerable members of society are protected, in which they can demonstrate their talents, and in which all people can live together. In addressing such issues, it is increasingly important from the viewpoint of securing the existence, life and dignity of each individual to strengthen efforts that place human beings at the centre. This is the concept of human security. I would like first of all to touch upon the issue of infectious diseases, which are not only a threat to the life of the individual, but also a serious obstacle to development and nation-building. Japan will extend assistance to the efforts of developing countries to combat infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. It will also actively support the activities of non-governmental organizations in developing countries working in this area. Moreover, Japan believes that the development of a United Nations-centred legal framework for combating transnational organized crime and terrorism is urgently required. Efforts to address global environmental issues are becoming increasingly important from the viewpoint of human security as well. Attaching greater importance to development assistance that takes the environment into consideration, Japan has allocated approximately 40 per cent of its official development assistance to environmental cooperation. The primary tasks at this moment on the environmental agenda are the success of the sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the entry into force no later than 2002 of the Kyoto Protocol on global warming issues. Concerning the Rio+10 event to be held in 2002, Japan believes that an agenda looking to the future should be set, taking into account the debates on the 16 effective implementation of many international environmental conventions, as well as globalization and the technological innovations that have occurred since the Earth Summit in 1992. Mapping out strategies to implement more effectively the large number of environmental conventions concluded in recent years will also be important. Japan strongly supports holding the Rio+10 conference in Asia and welcomes Indonesia's candidacy to host the conference. Further endeavours must be made to solve the problems confronting women, children and various vulnerable members of society. Japan highly appreciates efforts made in this regard by the United Nations, including its convening in June of the special session of the General Assembly entitled Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century. Furthermore, Japan will host the Second World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, and will advance its efforts for the protection of the rights of the child. I have touched upon only a limited part of the efforts focusing upon human security. Japan has contributed more than 9 billion yen well over $80 million to the human security fund that was established at the United Nations last year, and in the near future intends to make a further contribution of approximately 10 billion yen ó or roughly $100 million to this fund. The fund has borne fruit in assisting efforts particularly in such areas as post- conflict emergency assistance and reconstruction, health and medical care, and basic education. To further develop and deepen the concept of human security and to study ways to strengthen efforts in this context, Japan intends to establish an international committee on human security, with the participation of leaders of opinion. As I have stated, issues requiring action by the international community are becoming ever more diverse and complex. We must urgently strengthen the United Nations system to enable it to deal with these issues. First of all, this requires, as a matter of urgency, that the Security Council be re-created as a body that reflects the tremendous changes in the international community. At the Millennium Summit held last week the representatives of approximately a hundred Member States referred to this issue in their speeches within the limited time. The Millennium Declaration, expressing the determination to intensify our efforts to achieve a comprehensive reform of the Security Council, reflects the overall views of the heads of State and Government of Member States. In particular, there is a need for reform that reflects the views of developing countries, which are playing an ever more important role in the international community, and that fosters the participation of those countries with the capability to contribute to the solution of various issues facing the developing countries. I believe that both the representativeness and effectiveness of the Security Council can be enhanced through an expansion of both the permanent and non- permanent membership, and the inclusion of both developing and developed countries in the new permanent membership. Although we have already spent seven years discussing reform, during which relevant aspects of the issue have been exhaustively explored, we have yet to see the reform materialize. Even during the discussions, conflicts have broken out, and poverty is worsening in various parts of the world. I would like to emphasize that the time has come to seek a convergence of views among Member States on the concrete form of Security Council reform. Today the maintenance of international peace and security requires action, not only in political and security areas, but also in economic, social and various other areas. When the reform of the Security Council is realized, Japan would like to assume a greater responsibility as a permanent member of the Council, mobilizing its capabilities and its experiences in various areas, such as disarmament and non- proliferation, development and human security, and based upon the ideas which I have discussed today. A prerequisite for the strengthening of United Nations functions is securing a sound financial base. In addition to streamlining as well as improving the efficiency and transparency of United Nations finances, achieving a balance in financial burden-sharing is especially important. Today's financial burden sharing cannot be considered to reflect the economic strength of respective countries or their positions and responsibilities within the United Nations. Japan would like to appeal for its urgent revision. I strongly hope that an agreement can be reached on a more equitable scale of assessments for the regular budget at this session, as an important step towards the establishment 17 of a more stable financial base. Moreover, I hope that the substantive discussions for peacekeeping operations budgets, which are rapidly increasing, will also be conducted during this session and that a more equitable scale of assessments for these budgets can be agreed. As we welcome the twenty-first century, while respecting diversity, we must transcend the differences that arise out of our sense of belonging to an ethnic, religious or cultural group. The foundation for these endeavours is provided by international relationships based on universal values common to all humankind, such as democracy, human rights and freedom. The United Nations must play a central role in our efforts to construct such international relationships. In order to achieve peace, we must engage in dialogue with each other in a spirit of tolerance, and join hands in tackling various challenges. At the United Nations this year is designated the International Year for the Culture of Peace, and next year, 2001, is designated the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. These designations and the implementation of related substantive activities reflect a growing recognition of this idea. As globalization progresses and economy- oriented rationalism prevails, we should pay special attention to the task of raising awareness of cultural diversity, nurturing the special character of respective countries and regions, and preserving historical and cultural heritage. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) should play a central role in this regard. Every country should recognize the role of UNESCO, and join together in extending assistance to strengthen its activities. I believe that this Millennium Assembly, which began with the Millennium Summit, should be an epochal starting point of meaningful progress in the twenty-first century, both in consolidating our efforts to tackle various challenges and in strengthening United Nations functions through Security Council and financial reform. Towards that end, I should like to conclude by underscoring once again the growing importance of cooperation among all Member States.Your election, Sir, as President of the Millennium Assembly is fitting recognition of your great dedication to international peace. Ireland is especially grateful for your outstanding contribution to the Good Friday agreement signed in Belfast in 1998. We are sure that the qualities that you displayed then will serve you well in guiding the work of this session. Our thanks are due also to Foreign Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, the wise and thoughtful President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. We are happy also to welcome Tuvalu as a new Member of the Organization. My colleague, Foreign Minister VÈdrine of France, has already addressed the Assembly on behalf of the European Union. Ireland is fully associated with his remarks. The Declaration adopted at the historic Millennium Summit sets out the principles, objectives and targets which should inspire the work of this session. Ireland is fully committed to these principles and objectives, and we are determined to work vigorously to achieve real results. Critics of the United Nations may doubt our ability to achieve such results; we are determined to prove them wrong. Such critics ignore the considerable achievements of the Organization in recent years. Major reform of all aspects of the Organization has resulted in a more efficient, streamlined operation. We will work with others to strengthen the United Nations in order to fulfil the commitment made in the Declaration to ensure a more effective instrument for pursuing the fight for peace and development and against poverty, ignorance and disease. The cause of peace transcends all other challenges. Whether in the Middle East, the Western Balkans, Africa or, indeed, in our own island of Ireland, determined efforts to build a secure and durable peace must be tirelessly pursued. Our own experience in Ireland has taught us that there is no greater prize, no more difficult task and no greater satisfaction than to begin to heal the wounds of history and the scars of intolerance. Our own efforts at building peace have convinced us that to be effective, such efforts require international support and validation. We have also learned that economic development goes hand in hand with building a society with hope in its own future and pledged to overcome the bitterness of the past. It is this experience which helps guide our approach to peace- building in the wider world. It is this experience of peace-building and development which we will bring to the deliberations of the Security Council if elected by the membership in the coming weeks. Security and development are indivisible and interrelated. Yet too often we in the international community stand aside as hapless witnesses, hesitating to become involved, while the innocent suffer. We need to strengthen the capacity and commitment of the Organization to fulfil its mandates. I therefore strongly welcome the exercise of its authority by the United Nations in East Timor last year and, more recently, in Sierra Leone. It is our duty as Governments to underpin that authority. We must address those issues which prolong conflict, even when root causes become blurred. Let me give two examples. First, the illicit flow of small arms and light weapons into areas of conflict must be stopped; and secondly, trafficking in high-value commodities, particularly the trade in so-called blood diamonds', which has exacerbated conflicts in Africa, must be prevented. Carefully targeted, time-limited sanctions will help to counter this menace. Enhancing the role of the United Nations in peacekeeping is a priority for this session. To broaden that role, we urge an integrated approach combining prevention, settlement and post-conflict peace- building. While the Security Council has a global remit to maintain international peace and security in every region of the world, it is right that it pay special attention at this time to the promotion of durable peace in Africa. We therefore welcome the declared intention of the Security Council at the Millennium Summit to ensure that it plays a more effective role in this urgent and necessary task. Peacekeeping is at the heart of Ireland's contribution to the United Nations. For more than 40 years we have participated continuously in United 21 Nations peacekeeping operations. Irish personnel have served under United Nations command in the Middle East, Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. We are proud of the contribution which our peacekeepers have made in so many areas of the world. At the same time, we deeply regret that 82 of our Irish soldiers have died in the service of the United Nations. Other Member States have also sustained losses, and I would like to express my deep regret at the brutal attack last week on United Nations personnel in West Timor as well as at the recent outrages in Sierra Leone. It is because of our own long, and at times frustrating, experience of peacekeeping that Ireland welcomes the publication of the Brahimi report. In the light of this experience, I will focus in particular on three aspects. First, the United Nations must have the resources and capacity to deliver well-planned and effective peace support operations. The Member States must give the Secretary-General and his staff the means to do the job. Secondly, if the United Nations is to save lives, it must be capable of deploying into conflict areas rapidly. This requires rapid decision-making. Thirdly, effective operations depend on well- trained peacekeepers. A more integrated approach must be taken to develop training and equipment of United Nations peacekeeping personnel. Ireland's own United Nations Training School has provided such training to over 170 officers from 40 countries, and we intend to enhance this role in cooperation with like-minded countries. To those ends, we will contribute actively in this Assembly to the urgent follow-up of the proposals that have been put forward. Progress in disarmament remains crucially important both to the maintenance of peace and to development. At the sixth Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, very considerable efforts were made by all the States parties to ensure a successful outcome. That reflects the central role of the Treaty in the achievement of a world free of nuclear weapons. The outcome highlights the underlying premise of the Non- Proliferation Treaty: that these weapons do not provide assurances of peace and security. The threat to humanity posed by their continued existence will remain until we achieve an effective and global ban. There have been welcome and significant reductions by the nuclear-weapon States of their arsenals. But defence strategies based on nuclear weapons continue to include the possible use, even the first use, of those weapons. The Non-Proliferation Treaty is not a charter for the indefinite retention of nuclear weapons by any State. It represents a clear obligation to make nuclear disarmament a reality. At the Review Conference, the parties to the Non- Proliferation Treaty came closer in their common understanding of what is demanded by the Treaty. In that connection, the unequivocal commitment to the total elimination of their nuclear weapons made by the nuclear-weapon States is of fundamental significance. However, let us not lull ourselves into complacency because we have reached agreement on a programme of action. We now have an opportunity to begin the root-and-branch elimination of these weapons. Progress is primarily dependent on action by the five nuclear-weapon States. States which participate in security arrangements involving nuclear weapons have a particular responsibility to diminish the role of nuclear weapons in security policies. All States share a responsibility to advance negotiation on those measures needed to guarantee a world free of nuclear weapons. For our part, Ireland and our partners in the New Agenda Coalition are determined to work vigorously for the achievement of that goal. I referred earlier to the role of conventional arms in conflict situations. The ravages and suffering caused by small arms as well as by landmines are immense. We are, at least in the case of landmines, beginning to see positive results from the implementation of the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. The practical outcome has been the destruction of over 22 million mines by some 50 States; expenditure on mine clearance has more than doubled, and countless lives have been saved. Next year, the United Nations will focus on small arms with the first international conference specifically addressing that issue. We must set ambitious goals for the conference so that we may have a basis for making genuine inroads on the culture of violence fostered by the dissemination of those weapons. 22 Peace and development are essential to each other. Without peace, there can be no development. Without development, peace is hard to sustain. Without freedom from the threat of war, from human rights abuse and from famine, there can be no lasting human progress. The elimination of poverty and access to basic health care and education are crucial to sustainable development. Nonetheless, we witness today an unprecedented contrast between the prosperity of developed countries and the poverty of those that have been left behind. And yet, at the same time, we are witnessing an actual decline in the international community's development aid levels. Clearly, that trend must be reversed. It has long been an objective of Irish Governments to bring our development cooperation effort into line with our national economic growth and to meet the United Nations development cooperation target. Last week our Government took an important step forward by when our Taoiseach, our Prime Minister, Bertie Ahern, speaking at the Millennium Summit, committed Ireland to meet the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product by the end of 2007, and to reach the level of 0.45 per cent by the end of 2002. This will clearly represent a significant increase in volume terms. Indeed, in meeting our targets, we anticipate a fourfold increase by Ireland in our aid over the next seven years. That will greatly increase our ability to make a real impact on the lives of some of the poorest people on earth. Our aid budget is both a test and a reflection of our commitment to the values and principles set out in the Millennium Summit Declaration. We shall not fail in this task we have set ourselves as a country: to be an example to all who could contribute more. As we enter the new millennium, we are faced with several development issues which require immediate attention. We must begin to address the question of debt relief in a more coherent manner. The most heavily indebted countries need a sound basis for the achievement of acceptable levels of growth free from grinding debt. We must recognize that the burden on those States is unsustainable in the face of the challenges of poverty alleviation and AIDS. Speed is essential in delivering results from the Enhanced Debt Initiative if it is to remain credible. In addition to a European Union contribution of almost $1 billion, Ireland has bilaterally contributed over $40 million in debt relief, although as a matter of principle we have never extended loans in the guise of development assistance. That is why our aid has always been in grant form, and why all of our development aid is also untied. Greater market access by the least developed countries must be a priority. With the early implementation of the European Union's commitment to grant duty-free and quota-free access to its market by the least developed countries by 2005, a major step in this direction will have been taken. One of the greatest challenges to development is HIV/AIDS. If the spread of AIDS is to be arrested, we need: strong political will in the leadership of the most affected countries; we need greater international resources; we need greater access to essential drugs at prices that are affordable; and we need more research funds for the development of vaccines. The fight against AIDS is now an integral part of all Irish development activities, with funding budgeted for both prevention and the search for vaccines. Respect for human rights is central to the maintenance of peace and the promotion of development. It underpins all the activities of the United Nations. Putting weapons in the hands of children and sending them into conflict undermines the most basic rights and the innocence of the child. That is a scandal which cannot be allowed to continue. Through the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflicts, which Ireland was among the first to sign, a start has been made in addressing this issue. But much more must be done. The establishment of an International Criminal Court offers a unique opportunity to bring to justice the perpetrators of crimes against humanity and other serious violations of international law. Ireland is moving rapidly to ratify the Statute. The international criminal tribunals for former Yugoslavia and for Rwanda demonstrate how necessary it is to exercise international jurisdiction to end the culture of impunity where violations of basic human rights occur. Racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance persist in all our societies. The 2001 World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance will provide an opportunity to create a vision for the fight against racism and all intolerance for the coming century. I pay tribute here to the United Nations High Commissioner 23 for Human Rights, Mary Robinson. Taoiseach Bertie Ahern, TD, our Prime Minister, was pleased to be amongst the first to sign the declaration entitled: Tolerance and diversity: a vision for the twenty-first century', which was presented at the Millennium Summit. I believe that it will generate a positive approach to the World Conference. I know that our friends in the international community continue to follow developments in the peace process in Ireland with close interest. Indeed, the Governments of many Member States have played an important and concrete part in the successes we have achieved to date. I am particularly pleased therefore to be able to report that in the past year, in the face of many difficulties, we have made real progress towards the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement. The new political institutions are up and working well. In Northern Ireland there is an Executive on which all parts of the community nationalist, unionist and republican are represented as of right, and where Ministers are working constructively together to improve the quality of life for all the people. The North/South Ministerial Council, which brings together Ministers from both jurisdictions on the island, and the Implementation Bodies which it oversees, are developing new ways of working together, delivering tangible benefits in areas of mutual importance and interest. In the British-Irish Council, we are forging new relationships, including with the devolved administrations in Scotland and Wales. We are firmly committed to ensuring that all other aspects of the Agreement are implemented in full. Policing reform is a vital part of the new dispensation we are striving to create in Northern Ireland. All sides of the community want to see an effective, accountable policing service to which they can give allegiance and which young people, whatever their background, can join. The Agreement promised a new beginning in this area, and the Patten Report set out how it can be achieved. It is now crucially important that the legislative proposals currently before Parliament at Westminster secure that outcome. The Agreement also contains extensive commitments in the area of human rights, and we are working to ensure that they are delivered. My Government has established an independent Human Rights Commission, with a mandate and remit that surpass the standards set in the Paris Principles. We are in the process of appointing its members. We look forward to the Commission working closely with its counterpart in the North for the protection and promotion of human rights throughout the island of Ireland. We also need to see continued progress towards security and justice arrangements appropriate to a society in which peace will become the norm, and to see the question of arms resolved for all time. To this end, we have made great strides forward in recent months. Our task in the peace process has always been more than the putting in place of a new set of institutions and arrangements, important though they undoubtedly are. We are endeavouring to create a new beginning for what has been a deeply divided society, a new beginning where the divisions of the past are overcome. The task which the Irish Government has set itself is to work with others in peace and partnership, and in a spirit of mutual tolerance and respect, building together a better future for all of the people of Ireland. This demands patience, persistence and perseverance. A great deal remains to be done. Far too many people continue to have their lives blighted by sectarianism and hatred. There are still those who prefer to foster division, retarding rather than advancing the cause of reconciliation. On both sides there are still small groups of dissidents prepared to use violence to bring down the Agreement and to frustrate the democratically expressed wishes of the people. They have nothing to offer, and they will not be allowed to succeed. In Northern Ireland many people have yet to experience the full benefits of change and the return of hope and normality to their lives. Some remain sceptical about the benefits of the Agreement. But, working together with the British Government and with the representatives of all sides of the community, we will continue to do all in our power to convince them that the Agreement represents not only a balanced and honourable accommodation, but also the only way forward. The international community has made an important contribution to our achievements to date. Without the support and encouragement of the international community, we could not have come so far. When we embarked on our journey towards peace, we knew that it would take a great deal of time and of 24 work to see the Agreement implemented in full. We remain firmly committed to the task and take heart from the substantial progress we have made and draw courage from the international community's continued support. In the course of my statement I have set out my Government's position on the key issues facing the United Nations. It is this approach and commitment that will inform our actions if we are elected to the Security Council. Ireland is standing for election after 20 years absence from the Council. We do so as a small State which has already made a significant contribution to the work of this Organization. Faithful to the principles and purposes of the Charter, we have faced and tried to overcome the legacies of strife and underdevelopment that have marked our own history. Membership of the Security Council will allow us to bring to the service of all the lessons of our own experience, as well as our full commitment to the United Nations.At the outset, I would like to congratulate Mr. Holkeri on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. At the same time, I would like to express our appreciation to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the results achieved during his presidency. On this occasion, I would also like to express our gratitude to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his efficient and relevant leadership of the Organization. The Republic of Macedonia will continue actively to contribute to the realization of the goals of the United Nations. I also welcome the admission of Tuvalu to the United Nations, wishing it success in its contribution to United Nations activities and expressing our wish to establish diplomatic relations. At the same time, the Republic of Macedonia expresses its readiness and calls for the acceleration of the process of establishing diplomatic relations with all other States Members of the United Nations with which we have not yet done so. In the region where the Republic of Macedonia is located, the situation has to some extent improved after the huge humanitarian crisis that took place in Kosovo. The heavy consequences of the crisis, which posed a serious threat to the stability and security of the Balkans and more widely in Europe, have not been fully overcome. The Republic of Macedonia has and will have in the future a vital role to play for peace and stability in South-East Europe and beyond. The risks confronting the Republic of Macedonia were enormous. The Macedonian Government and our citizens have done everything within their capacity to respond to the problems. However, as was the case in the previous crises that occurred in the Balkans and during the Kosovo conflict last year as well, as one of the countries that most directly felt and bore the brunt of the damage, the Republic of Macedonia has shown and confirmed its long-term commitment to acting as a factor for peace and stability in the region. The Government, even in such conditions, persisted in its policy to preserve the stability of the Macedonian State and at the same time to reaffirm its capability to respond to all challenges and risks confronting it, in particular in the economic and social fields. One of the main priorities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Macedonia is to further improve good- neighbourly relations with all its neighbours. This commitment has been confirmed through a number of our initiatives, resulting in more advanced and developed relations in bilateral cooperation and intensified cooperation within the framework of a number of regional initiatives. My country is aware that stability and prosperity, in the medium and long terms, can be ensured only if stability is spread throughout South-East Europe, with intensive mutual communications and good-neighbourly cooperation among all States of the region. My country has managed, with almost all its neighbours — Greece, Albania and Bulgaria, but not the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with which we continue to negotiate the demarcation of our common border — to have outstanding relations and to develop cooperation in many areas of common interest. We have significantly improved relations with our southern neighbour, Greece. We continue to hold talks on our differences over the name of my country, under the auspices of the Secretary-General, expressing our will and interest in resolving this issue as soon as possible, taking into account the reality and dignity of the country and all its citizens. 22 Despite the huge expectations and initial support, the project that is most expected to contribute to the lasting stabilization of the region — the Stability Pact — has not managed to ensure the implementation of a large number of ideas and plans that have been submitted and accepted. The Pact, a significant example of the joint engagement and functioning of a large number of international organizations and States, is intended to hasten the revitalization of the countries of South-East Europe and their integration into European structures. I appeal to all participants engaged in this process, especially the donors and the wider international community, to make the utmost efforts to speed its urgent and timely implementation through the accelerated and full realization of these projects. This will provide for the economic prosperity of the countries of South-East Europe and strengthen democratic processes, respect for human rights and stability in the region. The implementation of the Pact constitutes a natural upgrading of our activities within the context of regional initiatives to promote good- neighbourly relations and the possibility of the realization of the foreign policy priorities of my country: its full integration into the European and Euro-Atlantic structures. In addition to its foreign policy activities, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia is fully committed to carrying out fundamental reforms based on European standards — political, economic and democratic — with maximum respect for human rights, including minority rights. The Government of my country is continuously working on the improvement of inter-ethnic relations. A law on higher education was recently adopted that paves the way for private higher education in minority languages. Therefore, as a result of our commitment, concrete steps and achievements, by the end of this year my country will be the first in the region to conclude the Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union. The efforts of the international community to stabilize the region, to which the Republic of Macedonia has contributed widely, are beginning to show results. Despite the limitations, it should be taken into consideration that the seriousness and complexity of the situation in Kosovo, and in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a whole, mean that the consequences of this situation cannot be alleviated with the speed desired by all of us, especially by the countries of the region. In regard to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, our view is that its democratization is one of the key factors for the comprehensive stabilization of the situation in the region. Our joint efforts should be directed at support for the democratic forces in that country and at joint actions to start the democratic process, followed by the provision of opportunities for economic prosperity. It is important to reassess the overall effects of the sanctions, which should not be directed at the citizens. We hope that the upcoming elections in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be fair and democratic, in accordance with European and Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe standards, and be a step towards that country's democratization. Regarding the situation in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I would like, in my capacity as Chairman of the South-East European Cooperation Process, to inform the Assembly about the joint declaration recently adopted by the Foreign Ministers of the participating States in New York. In the declaration we, the Foreign Ministers, expressed our concern about the latest developments in the situation in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as regards the upcoming presidential and parliamentary elections, and confirmed our support for the democratic forces in that country and for its efforts to start the democratic process. All of this might contribute to the integration of that country into the international community and to its participation in the work of international organizations, following the path that all the other successor States of the former Yugoslavia have taken. Furthermore, the resolution of the succession issue of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the basis of the equality of all successors — as acknowledged by the decisions of the European Union/United Nations International Conference on the Former Yugoslavia, as well as by the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions — is a prerequisite for stability and peace in the region. Concerning the issue of succession, I would like to point out that during the Millennium Summit and Millennium Assembly, the four successor States have once again reaffirmed their joint position and proposed to work more intensively to settle this issue. Furthermore, I would like to express our support for the stability and the reform processes undertaken in Montenegro and for the efforts of the democratically 23 elected Government there to continue pursuing economic and democratic development. We also support that Government's greater involvement in the work of international bodies and organizations and in other regional cooperation processes. The consistent position of my country, which was stated well before the outbreak of the Kosovo crisis and adoption of the Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), was to support a peaceful and political solution to the Kosovo crisis through substantial autonomy in the framework of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, respect for the human rights of all living in Kosovo, respect for the inviolability of the existing borders and, finally, the economic reconstruction and stabilization of Kosovo and of the region. We support the activities of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo and the Kosovo Force (KFOR). We are convinced of the need to build democratic institutions and a multi-ethnic society in Kosovo, and to find a model of civil society that does away with any propensity to create ethnically cleansed territories. The local elections in Kosovo are of paramount importance for its future. The Republic of Macedonia is concerned about the reported violence and the increased number of inter-ethnic incidents and tensions in Kosovo. We consider that KFOR should strengthen its border control activities, with the aim of preventing violence from spilling over into the neighbouring countries, including my country. I am stressing this because there have been several serious incidents at the border of the Republic of Macedonia. In the hope that the developments in Kosovo will be the last serious challenge in the Balkans, we will have to defend together more successfully democratic principles and values and develop long-term preventive strategies. Regional stability can be provided only by economic prosperity, democracy and respect for human rights and the rights of national minorities, as well as through intensive regional and bilateral cooperation. However, the most serious guarantee for the security of the region and its transformation into an area of democracy, development, stability and cooperation remains the early integration and full-fledged membership of the countries from the region in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). This year's Millennium Assembly presents a genuine opportunity to analyse the work of our Organization and to evaluate its efficiency in resolving issues of international interest. We all hope that the directions for future development will also be underscored, with the aim of further promoting the achieved results and practices. One of the main characteristics of the modern world is that now more than ever there is a great deal of interdependence. This represents a new challenge, and at the same time is a new feature of international relations. Moreover, when everybody is talking about the enormous significance of the ever more important multilateral character of the international scene and about globalization, the question of the equal participation of all the world's actors is being raised. That is, at issue is the official representation of the voices of all peoples. In this regard, I would like to express our support for the efforts of the Republic of China on Taiwan to become integrated into the international community, taking into consideration the interests of that country and also its significant contribution to international cooperation and the solidarity it has shown. It is in the interest of our Organization that the 23 million people of the Republic of China participate in its activities. The negative effects of crises, threats to peace, security and economic development, and the pollution of the environment are felt globally. In accordance with the new situation in international relations, needs and visions, an obvious demand exists to strengthen the role of the United Nations. Our Organization can successfully carry out its activities only if the Member States fully contribute to their realization. In order to allow the Organization to be able to play a successful role in the twenty-first century, it is necessary to adequately reform it. We welcome the efforts made by the Secretary-General thus far to this effect, and at the same time we would like to urge him and the Member States to continue. Furthermore, I would like to underline that the reform of the United Nations will be successful only if strengthening the role of the General Assembly follows the reform of the Security Council. In our view, it is necessary to increase the number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council on the basis of the new reality in international relations. These new members should come from both the developing and developed countries. 24 What needs to be done so that the United Nations can adequately respond to the challenges of this century? The Millennium Summit offered part of the answer. The adopted Millennium Summit Declaration creates obligations for all Member States in their future endeavours. We share the opinion that, although the Declaration is a political document, it is first of all an action plan of our Organization for the period to come. Stressing the importance of the adopted document, I would like to urge the General Assembly to begin implementing it. In these efforts, the Republic of Macedonia will actively contribute. The Republic of Macedonia will also continue to contribute to the strengthening of international peace and security. I emphasize that part of our contribution to the realization of the issues will be elaborated under the three agenda items as a follow-up to the resolutions submitted by the Republic of Macedonia. The maintenance of international peace and security worldwide will continue to be the priority of our Organization in the twenty-first century. As the Secretary-General stated in his report, the world, and our Organization in particular, will be faced with the need to be fully involved in conflict prevention, conflict resolution and the development of the affected States. Therefore, prevention should become one of the primary instruments of our Organization. In regard to our contribution to prevention activities and policy, I would like to inform the Assembly that in the Republic of Macedonia an international centre for conflict prevention and resolution is being established. Of great importance to stability and security, in our view, is the control of small arms and light weapons, which pose a large threat to peace in many regions of the world. In that connection, the United Nations, in cooperation with other regional organizations, such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), can have a serious impact on preventing the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. We urge the international community to take strong measures in its efforts to stop arms trafficking, especially of small arms and light weapons. In that respect, we hope that that the international conference on this issue, which will take place next year, will contribute to more efficient actions. Among the reasons for the eruption of a large number of local conflicts worldwide are economic and social factors. Globalization, apart from its positive effects, has a number of negative implications for the small and least developed economies. Financial resources for development are necessary; realistically, the United Nations is not able to provide them. We support the appeal for the necessary voluntary contributions from Member States, but also the idea of involving other participants, such as international financial institutions, the private sector and other bodies. In this respect, we welcome next year's international Conference on Financing for Development. I underline that writing off the debts, or part of them, of countries affected by objective external influences would have a very positive impact. It would also help to diminish global poverty and unemployment and aid the overall economic development of the indebted countries. The General Assembly is the proper place for evaluating achievements in the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms. There has been an impressive development of international human rights law in the last 50 years. Today we can proudly state that the United Nations, with the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other instruments, succeeded in affirming the international consensus — that human dignity is to be the basic standard and the main goal for all people and nations. Last year we marked the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and next year there will be a world summit on this issue. I take this opportunity to announce the intention of the Republic of Macedonia to sign in the very near future the two Optional Protocols to the Convention, the first on the involvement of children in armed conflict and the second on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. Before I conclude, I would like to single out a few issues to which my Government attaches crucial importance: first the situation in Africa, both political and economic; secondly, the Middle East peace process; thirdly, the financial situation of our Organization — all Member States should fulfil their obligations; and, finally peacekeeping operations, which contribute to the affirmation of our Organization on a global scale. This is the right moment for their 25 restructuring and strengthening on the basis of the report (A/55/305) prepared by the Brahimi Panel. Many challenges await us in the twenty-first century. Our obligation is to make the world a better and happier place to live in. In the realization of that aim, the United Nations has a significant place and role. The significance and existence of our universal Organization lies in its skilfulness in adapting to real situations and future challenges. We expect this year's Millennium Assembly to contribute to the realization of this aim. I assure the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia's contribution to its successful fulfilment. The Bahamas delegation sincerely congratulates Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election to the presidency of this Millennium Assembly and assures him and the members of his Bureau of its full cooperation and support. I wish also to commend Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, who presided over the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. The Bahamas delegation also wishes to pay special tribute to the Co-Chairpersons of the Millennium Summit, Ms. Tarja Halonen, President of Finland, and Mr. Sam Nujoma, President of the Republic of Namibia. Their combined wisdom and focused leadership contributed in no small part to the success of the Millennium Summit. The Bahamas is pleased to welcome Tuvalu as the newest Member of this Organization. Tuvalu's membership is a sign of the confidence that the United Nations continues to enjoy among nations of the world as the best hope for the realization of the aspirations of all peoples. We applaud the Secretary-General's continuing commitment to the United Nations. This was particularly demonstrated by his bold proposals for the reform and revitalization of the Organization, which culminated in the practical, responsive and visionary Millennium Summit Declaration. The Declaration was unanimously adopted by an unprecedented number of heads of State or Government. In this Millennium Declaration, world leaders collectively and succinctly 22 outlined the labyrinth of issues on the global agenda for which solutions are essential in the twenty-first century. It is now our responsibility to implement it in good faith. It cannot be business as usual in this United Nations. The Millennium Declaration placed globalization high on the list of issues requiring urgent attention. As a process offering opportunities for growth and development, globalization has never been challenged. It is a grim reality, however, that few have profited, and some, particularly smaller economies, have become marginalized and even more vulnerable. For many of the small island developing States of the Caribbean, their mainstay industries, particularly bananas and financial services, have come under extreme pressure in this rapidly globalizing world. With respect to financial services, the Bahamas has always cooperated, and will continue to cooperate, with international efforts to combat money laundering. Currently we are amending our legislation and reinforcing our regulatory regime so as to fully comply with international best practices. While the Bahamas will move expeditiously to correct deficiencies in our financial services industry, we call upon the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF) and the other concerned financial agencies established by developed countries to immediately adopt open and transparent procedures to recognize when such deficiencies have been corrected and to then take the necessary action as a matter of priority. Additionally, it has been a source of serious concern to us in the Bahamas that one group of countries, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), would seek to unilaterally determine what constitutes “harmful tax competition” in respect to financial services. We urge those countries to cooperate in resolving these issues on the basis of constructive multilateral dialogue, given that the pressures applied in this and other areas not only disrupt growth and development, but could well lead to the reversal of the gains made in the development process. The intensity of protests in Seattle and in Washington, D.C., have mirrored the frustration of many developing countries in a globalization process which appears to be biased towards the rich and powerful and to widen the gap between haves and have-nots. Yet no country can opt out of globalization. Nor can we ignore the challenge its potentially devastating consequences present for peace and security. The United Nations resolve that globalization must be fully inclusive and equitable should be buttressed with effective action to ensure a vibrant global economic order in which all countries, large and small, developed and developing, mutually benefit. The Bahamas is now an observer in the World Trade Organization (WTO) and will move purposefully towards full membership. We have chosen to take this course of action because we intend to participate fully in the WTO processes. These processes should, and must, make globalization and trade liberalization inclusive and equitable instruments for development. We made this commitment at the highest level at the Millennium Summit. There is another commitment in the Millennium Declaration that is of critical importance to small island developing States such as the Bahamas and other members of the Caribbean Community. The Millennium Declaration reaffirms the United Nations resolve to address the special needs of the small island developing States by implementing both the Barbados Programme of Action and the outcome of the twentysecond special session of the General Assembly on this plan. It did so in recognition of the vulnerability of their economies to external shocks and their susceptibility to climate change, sea level rise and natural disasters. I wish to re-emphasize here that the call in the Barbados plan is for action. In line with the Millennium Declaration and their own national efforts, the small island developing States now expect action, through initiatives such as global disaster management strategies and a vulnerability index. Such initiatives must take fully into account the socio-economic development and survival of small island developing States. For Caribbean Community (CARICOM) small States, we also hope to see the development of an integrated management approach to the Caribbean Sea advanced. We would also, in this United Nations, urge our partners in the developed world not to continue to put our countries at risk by shipping nuclear and hazardous wastes through the Caribbean Sea. We reiterate this appeal in the face of recent evidence that suggests that 23 the highly professed safety measures touted by the nuclear-power industry are questionable. In the Millennium Declaration, world leaders committed themselves to overcoming many seemingly intractable problems for which effective responses can only be of a global nature. The world's drug problem, and the trafficking in small arms and light weapons, are issues for which the global community urgently needs results. While these twin evils are, in our view, closely linked, every indication is that the trafficking in firearms is taking on a life of its own. The introduction of firearms into ordinary, non-drug related criminal activity, and even domestic conflict, is perhaps the greatest single threat to peace and stability in the Bahamas today. Therefore, the Bahamas looks forward to next year's United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. We are confident that the commitments made in our Millennium Declaration will motivate us to grasp this significant opportunity for concerted action. We especially urge developed countries in which firearms are manufactured to take the steps necessary to prevent illicit arms trafficking. In the Millennium Declaration, world leaders committed themselves to the eradication of poverty, hunger and disease, and to making the right to development a reality for all. This commitment compels us to act on several fronts to achieve our objectives. We must, for example, reach agreement to ensure the success of the high-level international and intergovernmental event on financing for development, to be held in the year 2001. Our commitment means that we must ensure that technological advances benefit not just the few, but all of humankind. We must work more assiduously towards the elimination of human rights violations, including violence against women and the trafficking in women and children. We must ensure equal rights for men and women, to bring down barriers to development. For countries such as the Bahamas, forced to bear the brunt of sustained illegal migration, the United Nations must collectively address not only the challenges of migration flows worldwide, but also the reprehensible practice of alien-smuggling. Our commitment means that we must achieve a comprehensive reform of the Security Council. Addressing the unfolding human tragedy of HIV/ AIDS is also an important front on which the Millennium Declaration charges us to work. The pernicious effect of this disease, particularly on the economically productive sectors of society, has had a devastating impact on families, communities and nations globally. However, the major burden that AIDS presents, particularly for health care systems, has been most profoundly felt in developing countries, where it threatens to limit and reverse development efforts. Adequate resources must be provided to confront HIV/ AIDS, particularly in Africa. In this regard, the pharmaceutical industry must be encouraged to play its necessary role. The Bahamas welcomed the recently convened conference in Barbados under the auspices of the World Bank, UNAIDS, the Pan American Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/ WHO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), CARICOM and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), which brought together high-level Caribbean health, education, economic development and labour policy-makers. The Bahamas is committed to doing its part in addressing this serious problem and has offered to host a regional centre to assist in combating this HIV/AIDS pandemic. The agenda set for the United Nations by world leaders is a formidable one. Forgive me if I restate the obvious — the Secretary-General cannot carry out the crucial mandates we ourselves have entrusted to him unless and until he is assured of adequate and predictable resources on a timely basis. At the same time, the quotas on the basis of which the Organization receives its resources must be assessed in a fair, transparent and equitable manner. Only in this way will we be able to give renewed impetus to the vibrant process of administrative and budgetary reform currently under way. By so doing, we will also break the cycle of the Organization's inability to implement the mandates that we ourselves have collectively set. Furthermore, we must arrest the process whereby many issues, including some of critical concern to developing countries, have been moved out of the ambit of this universal Organization into narrower, special interest organizations. These organizations harmonize and seek the interest of their Member States. Therefore, the decisions they take can run counter, not only to the interest of non-Member States, but also to that of global society as a whole. 24 Allow me to raise one more serious concern - the safety and security of our international civil service, the dedicated men and women who are the embodiment of the United Nations global outreach. In this respect, we extend our profound condolences to the families of the staff members who lost their lives as a result of the recent attack on the United Nations office in West Timor. We also join other delegations in condemning this attack and in urging the Government of Indonesia to spare no effort in bringing those responsible to justice. We also extend condolences to the family of the United Nations refugee worker killed in an attack in Guinea. In situations such as these, we must show that we can meet the concerns of our peoples and our world. Through the historic Millennium Declaration, heads of State and Government reaffirmed their faith in the United Nations and its Charter as indispensable foundations for a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. They also emphasized that the United Nations is the pre-eminent global organization and has a central role in setting and acting upon the global agenda. Heads of State and Government equally provided us with a concise, focused and realistic blueprint for action by the United Nations in the twenty-first century. They have charged the Secretary-General to keep a score-card, the results of which will determine whether we have been true and honourable custodians of the United Nations Charter. It is imperative for us to demonstrate individually, and through our collective efforts, that we can leave for succeeding generations the kind of world envisioned in our Charter.   The delegation of Saint Kitts and Nevis congratulates you, Sir, on your election to the presidency the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. We pledge our full support and our assistance in the work ahead. Permit me also to pay tribute to the work of your predecessor, who took us through a challenging fifty-fourth session. As the new Foreign Minister of Saint Kitts and Nevis, I am deeply honoured to be addressing the Assembly at this historic moment of increasing expectations at the national level. At the same time, we salute the dawn of this millennium with consternation in the face of the unprecedented challenges that confront us. The United Nations has matured in the past five decades, but we recognize that this is an institution where maturity cannot be measured in days or decades. The maturity of which I speak should be measured by the quality of our commitment and the depth of our vision. The phenomenon of globalization has been characterized by growth in the level of trade, increased flows of capital, and advanced technology. Although we do not question this reality, we are cognizant of the inherent challenges and inequalities of globalization resulting from our varied levels of development. Small island developing States such as Saint Kitts and Nevis have yet to access a significant share of the vaunted benefits that globalization has brought in its wake. We continue to bear a disproportionate share of its costs while experiencing continuous marginalization due to our small size and to the volatility of financial flows. We urge the United Nations to influence developed countries to improve market conditions for exports from small developing States, which are 2 especially vulnerable. We are inclined to ask the pertinent question: Why is globalization, with all its inherent benefits, not improving the lot of the poor among us? It is evident that globalization is creating new scenarios on our landscape; as these new situations emerge, we must develop new strategies to remain relevant. What is critical, therefore, is the need for increased cooperation among Member States in our efforts to secure our various interests. Saint Kitts and Nevis would like to stress the imperative of giving the United Nations the political impetus necessary to address the inequalities characterizing inter-State relations. This Organization, with its tradition of democracy, should resolve the anomalies created by globalization. We welcome the recommendations of the Secretary-General intended to ensure that this multifaceted phenomenon will work to the advantage of small island developing States. We intend to persevere in our efforts to adopt the requisite macroeconomic policies. However, effective governance and cooperation at the global level must complement our democratic will and our political will at the national level. We should commit ourselves to strengthening the United Nations as the multilateral institution which provides a forum of inclusion. We shall also persist in our efforts to ensure the development of mechanisms and modalities to make possible equitable results. In particular, we urge the use of a vulnerability index to be factored into any assessment of small island States by the United Nations and by international development and financial institutions. As for globalization and governance, Saint Kitts and Nevis is concerned by the recent action taken by the financial action task force of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries, which has sought to put pressure on the already weakened economies of several Caribbean States, including Saint Kitts and Nevis. In recent times, many of us, in our efforts to diversify our economies, have undertaken to build a strong financial service sector. But sadly, as I speak, my people find themselves, along with the collective populations of four other Caribbean neighbours, assaulted through negative advisories. We urge the United Nations, through the Secretary-General, to impress upon OECD countries that unilateral attempts to effect multilateral solutions in their own self-interest weaken the democratic fibre of international relations. We urge, therefore, that any discussion on the development strategies of countries large or small must be raised to the level of inclusive discussions or multilateral forums. We would like to emphasize that there is no harm in a competitive, well regulated, supervised financial service sector. However, a unilateral challenge to the sovereign rights of States to implement legal tax regimes is an unwarranted attack on the integrity of those States. We believe that the development of the financial services sector holds valuable opportunities for small developing countries. We understand also the need for due diligence and for appropriate checks and balances to frustrate and deter money laundering. The coupling of the financial services sector and money laundering without distinguishing between the two does grave injustice to a legitimate economic enterprise. Saint Kitts and Nevis is committed to ensuring that no individual or entity abuses our financial services sector for illicit purposes. To that end, we have enacted legislation and have established a financial intelligence unit. We will be vigilant and will continue to take the necessary steps to keep this sector free from abuse. Members can thus see that we are aware of the difference, and that we are committed to ensuring that our jurisdiction complies with international standards. The convening earlier this year of the special session on the World Summit for Social Development allowed us to focus attention on the human face of poverty, which is overlooked by globalization. While we, as developing countries, continue to adopt a proactive approach to our social development agenda, the United Nations, through its specialized agencies, should continue to support national poverty reduction programmes so as to promote favourable economic and financial opportunities for all young people. Saint Kitts and Nevis, therefore, regards as critical the meeting on financing for development, scheduled for the year 2001. We hope that it will provide the appropriate opportunity to adopt measures to strengthen the international financial system; this could ensure long-term access to resources and technical assistance. St. Kitts and Nevis welcomes the Secretary- General's initiative for the establishment of a disaster 3 response programme that would complement the resilience of our people to contribute to effective and timely reconstruction efforts. However, the impact from man-made disasters is even more devastating. The frequent passage through our waters of shipments of toxic and hazardous waste poses a serious threat to our fragile ecosystems. We urge the United Nations to assume a greater role in mobilizing support within the international community to implement this policy. We have to take action to avert the threat of pollution from ship-generated waste, as well as accidental release of hazardous and noxious substances. We regard the progress achieved in promoting women in development as vital to the global agenda of human rights. Hence, St. Kitts and Nevis welcomed the convening this year of the special session on the status of women, which allowed Member States to review and assess the progress made since the Beijing Declaration and Plan of Action. My Government is currently implementing a new gender management system and has introduced measures to ensure that the national budget and development programmes are more gender sensitive. We are committed to strengthening and promoting the mainstreaming of a gender perspective at all levels. There has been much debate about the critical role of information technology in bridging the global digital divide. We welcome the Secretary-General's proposal for a United Nations Information Technology Service, which could go a long way towards our efforts to sustain our future through capacity-building. In the Group of 77 Summit convened earlier this year, the developing countries committed to strengthening South-South cooperation through the transfer of knowledge and technology. St. Kitts and Nevis intends to forge ahead on the information super- highway. My Government has embarked on a programme to make each child in St. Kitts and Nevis computer literate by the year 2005. We encourage developed countries to use the availability of appropriate technologies, not only to generate wealth for themselves but also to advance the economic and social well being of the citizens of the world. In the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, “Through our scientific genius we have made the world a neighbourhood; now, through our moral and spiritual development, we must make it a brotherhood”. The plethora of issues on the United Nations agenda is complex and involved. Indeed, these challenges sometimes even exceed the capacity of individual States. Therefore, we need to harness the collaborative energies of States and non-State actors to cope with the fundamental changes in the world. This Organization should be guided by the foresight of President Truman who, in reference to the Charter, stated, “The Charter will be expanded and improved as time goes on. Changing world conditions will require readjustments”. Change is the only constant. St. Kitts and Nevis encourages Member States to recognize the importance of change as we embrace the true concept of democracy within the Security Council. The undemocratic structure and lack of fairness within the Security Council threaten to undermine Member States' commitment and trust in the Organization. Even as we forge ahead into a new millennium, we still are witnessing some of the most gruesome forms of man's inhumanity. War and other inter-State conflict still litter the landscape of many societies throughout the world. We must continue to support peacekeeping operations to ensure that the rhetoric of violence is silenced. The concepts of peace-making and peacekeeping must also be complemented by the imperatives of development. Once we have established peace, we must also lay the foundation to support lasting peace. We welcome and congratulate the State of Tuvalu, admitted at the opening of this fifty-fifth regular session. As a vulnerable small island Caribbean developing State, St. Kitts and Nevis is pleased to welcome another vulnerable small State from the Pacific, convinced that it is seized of its obligations to uphold the principles of the Charter. In addition, St. Kitts and Nevis reiterates its call for discussion of the Chinese people on Taiwan. Again, we emphasize that our policy seeks to promote respect for the sovereignty of States. However, as we reflect on the mission of this institution, we deem it appropriate to consider the invaluable contribution of the 23 million Chinese people on Taiwan who can add great substance to international discourse. This Millennium Assembly affords us the opportunity to reflect on the Secretary-General's 4 report, which focuses on the world's people and the United Nations role in ensuring their well-being. We welcome the importance attributed to peace and security on the agenda of the United Nations and welcome the proclamation of the year 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace. We further applaud the decision to declare the decade beginning in 2001 as the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World. Our children are our future; the new millennium belongs to them. It behooves us to dissipate the ominous clouds on the horizon of their dreams so they can awaken to a world free of fear. The experts contend that there is an obvious correlation between the persistence of poverty and poor health. The statistical reports on HIV/AIDS paint a sinister picture. Saint Kitts and Nevis is disturbed by the rapid increase in the number of persons infected with the HIV/AIDS virus and its economic and social consequences for growth in developing countries. This disease does not recognize national boundaries and threatens to undermine future economic and social development in many of our nations. We look forward to a United Nations special session on HIV/AIDS to intensify and better coordinate our approaches at the international level. Despite all its shortcomings, the United Nations has a critical role to play in the international system. Without the United Nations, many small States like Saint Kitts and Nevis would lose a champion of collective interests. That is unacceptable. One of the most valuable gifts to humanity in the last millennium has been the United Nations. We must therefore commit ourselves to preserving it.The individual human being must always be at the centre of our work. Burmese students fighting for democracy, victims of ethnic violence in Kosovo, women in Afghanistan denied their right to education and equality, children dying of curable diseases, people simply trying to survive in the utmost poverty have given us our task. Meeting the needs of the peoples and realizing their aspirations remain the starting point, the purpose and the vision of our Organization. But the United Nations will only be what we, its Members, allow it to be. This year's General Assembly session provides an occasion to revitalize our much needed, but often criticized, global Organization. The Secretary-General's excellent report on the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century provides a firm basis for the creation of a truly modern United Nations a United Nations with maintained legitimacy and increased credibility, greater efficiency and continued global relevance. Globalization opens the market for those who have the resources and instruments to benefit from it. Globalization makes knowledge and information available to those who have the tools and skills to make use of the new technology. Globalization brings opportunities to improve life for all people, but it has also led to an increasing gap between those who can take advantage and those left behind. Safeguarding the universal and indivisible rights and values of humanity is a key responsibility for the United Nations in the age of globalized economy, technology and communications. The world community has to do its utmost to integrate the least developed countries into the global economy. Solidarity and responsibility from all countries are necessary for reaching international development targets and for contributing to an improved standard of living for all people. Solidarity and responsibility are essential in fighting two of the greatest threats to development and human security in our time: poverty and HIV/AIDS. We need to work with a wide range of measures to overcome these threats. Sustained and increased official development assistance remains of vital importance. Today only four countries, Sweden among them, meet the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income in development aid. But we must also look at financing for development in a broader perspective. Domestic resources, trade, international finance and official development assistance must all be taken into account. Sweden wants an integrated approach to development. We welcome the fact that the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organization (WTO) and others are working together in preparing next year's high-level events on these issues. The start of new negotiations under the WTO can be an important contribution to growth and development. Let us together make sure that such negotiations truly turn into a development round. The major trading nations have already committed themselves to giving free market access to products from the least developed countries. It is time to put these commitments into effect. There is no contradiction between development and respect for human rights. On the contrary, development benefits from respect for the human rights and participation of all citizens, and discrimination and oppression are threats to development. For women in many parts of the world, discrimination means being 25 excluded from participation in the economic and political fields; their potential contribution is lost. Two thirds of all illiterates are women. For millions of women, domestic violence is a daily reality. This is not in accordance with the basic values of our international community and it is a major obstacle to sustainable development. The legal basis for ending discrimination exists with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the new agreement of the special session in June. For the children, next year's special session of the General Assembly provides an excellent opportunity to set a global and concrete agenda. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is the basis for this agenda to reduce forcefully maternal mortality, to give more children access to primary school and to promote the participation of young people in shaping our societies. Girls must be given the same rights and opportunities as boys. I thus welcome the Secretary-General's new system-wide girls' education initiative. A growing problem in many countries and regions is the traffic in human beings, especially exposing women and children to sexual exploitation and to forced labour. These criminal acts call for our immediate attention and a forceful reaction from the international community. We need and actively seek closer cooperation between Europe, Asia and others in order to develop strong and efficient measures to fight this appalling violation of human rights. Respect for human dignity requires an end to the use of the death penalty. This brutal and irrevocable form of punishment has no place in a modern, civilized society. It is time for the international community to fully recognize the most fundamental human right and abolish the death penalty. Disrespect for democracy and human rights paves the way for crisis and conflict. National sovereignty is firmly coupled with a Government's responsibility to protect and promote human rights. It is the duty of the international community and our duty as political leaders to act and react when human rights and fundamental freedoms are violated. We cannot idly stand by when people are being brutalized behind national borders. In many armed conflicts, deliberate terror directed against civilians is used to create fear. Women suffer from violence and rape. Children are denied their dignity and childhood when forced to become soldiers. Men are imprisoned in concentration camps, forced to take sides or killed. Lives and families are ruined and the perpetrators often go unpunished. Sierra Leone is one example, Kosovo another. Strengthening international law and humanitarian law does increase the protection of the individual. It also creates confidence amongst people, since it demonstrates that a culture of impunity will not be tolerated. A good example was the decision by the Security Council to set up a special court to try those responsible for war crimes during the conflict in Sierra Leone. The establishment of an International Criminal Court will give us a safer and more just world. Suspected perpetrators of crimes against humanity can and will be tried in accordance with international law whenever national courts are unable or unwilling to do so. There is a strong need for joint and early action to make the International Criminal Court operational. The past year saw a new honesty in drawing conclusions from previous mistakes and I want to congratulate the Secretary-General for having initiated the studies of our failures in Bosnia and Rwanda. The lessons learned from the chilling reports on the massacre in Srebrenica and on the genocide in Rwanda, as well as from the senseless terror in East Timor, must be put to constructive use for the future. National sovereignty must not be used as an excuse to prevent the United Nations from taking necessary measures when fundamental humanitarian values are at stake. It is our common responsibility to make sure that commitments are made and that the resources for peace operations are available when needed. My Government warmly welcomes the recommendations in the Brahimi report, for example concerning core funding for United Nations Headquarters support for peacekeeping operations. By implementing the many recommendations in the report, the United Nations capacity to act will be significantly strengthened. If the Security Council cannot act in an urgent situation, due to a veto or the threat of a veto, its credibility and its legitimacy suffer. Necessary action ought not to be hindered or blocked by a veto. Now is the time for the permanent members to agree on a moratorium on the use of the veto. 26 The credibility of the Security Council is of vital interest not only to its members, but to the United Nations membership at large. All efforts should be made to use the Security Council as a forum for negotiations and decisions in order to avoid not only the unnecessary threat of or use of the veto, but also unilateral action whereby the Council is circumvented. A modern United Nations requires a Security Council that reflects the realities of today's international relations. The Council should therefore be enlarged to make room for an increased representation of countries, not least from the developing world. We should also be prepared to periodically review the composition of the Security Council. At stake is the global relevance of the Security Council in a world vastly different from that of 1945. The recent developments on the Korean peninsula show that long-lasting tension can also be challenged through enlightened statesmanship. But the absence of armed conflict does not equal lasting peace. It is essential to address the root causes of violent conflict by building democracy and safeguarding human rights, by promoting economic and social development and by removing trade barriers and debt burdens. There is no alternative to the United Nations in preventing and, if needed, managing conflicts. The United Nations provides legitimacy for global action, but the United Nations alone cannot meet the needs and demands in this area. Cooperation between the United Nations and regional entities could be further developed. Sweden believes that the civilian and military capacity for crisis management and conflict prevention now being developed by the European Union (EU) could be put to use in the future by the United Nations. We will continue to work for close cooperation between the EU and the United Nations on these matters during the Swedish presidency of the EU in the spring of 2001. During the past year, the Security Council has placed emphasis on early action and on the need to focus on the prevention of violent conflicts. Sweden strongly supports this shift towards identifying and taking early measures. We are prepared to work with other countries to support the Secretary-General in the development of a comprehensive conflict prevention strategy. Improved interaction between the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, other United Nations bodies and the Bretton Woods institutions, including the use of joint fact-finding missions, will facilitate early action. Sweden would like to see the establishment of a standing fact-finding mechanism at the disposal of the Secretary-General, as a complement to Security Council missions. Such a mechanism could be utilized at an early stage in an emerging crisis situation, without undue delays. Another part of a United Nations strategy should be to explore and develop the link between democracy and prevention of violent conflict. Democracy offers peaceful ways of handling conflicts and different interests. Democratization is a process in which the holding of elections should only be the first step in a long-term international commitment. Establishing peace and democracy takes a lot more than free and fair elections, even if that is the beginning. The sanctions instrument needs to be refined to become truly effective. By now, we have ample evidence that sweeping economic sanctions frequently do more harm than good. The guiding principle should be to exert the strongest possible pressure on the decision-makers, while no effort should be spared to avoid negative effects on civilians. Every future sanctions regime ought to consist of sharp and enforceable measures, directed against the factors that cause and fuel crisis or conflict. Sweden stands ready to contribute actively to the debate on how this instrument of the United Nations Charter can be made more efficient. To promote disarmament and prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass-destruction remains a major challenge for the United Nations and its Member States. The result of this year's Review Conference of the Parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) gives certain hope in this regard. For the first time in many years, a consensus document on the agenda for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament was adopted. For the first time ever, the nuclear- weapon States unconditionally pledged to totally eliminate their nuclear arsenals. For the first time, a number of practical steps were identified for how to work towards this goal. A world free from nuclear weapons will not be achieved overnight. Nor are these steps to be taken in a distant future or held hostage to States' perception of the appropriate strategic balance. The momentum achieved at the NPT Conference has to be sustained. The countries of the New Agenda Coalition will work for the implementation of the NPT results. All States 27 ought to immediately cease production of nuclear weapons and fissile material for weapons purposes. The Conference on Disarmament should now start its work on a ban on such material. The world community's efforts to prevent the further production of nuclear weapons must not be blocked by China, India, Pakistan or any other State. It is high time to bring the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty into force. We expect all States to live up to their commitments. The United States' plans for a national missile defence system causes concern. In today's globalized world, we must always take account of the global effects of our decisions. It is hard to see how a possible threat, from a few States, would best be countered by a missile shield that may or may not work, and which risks setting off a renewed arms race, with immense costs in terms of wasted resources and loss of human security. The recent announcement by the United States administration to postpone the decision on the national missile defence system was therefore welcome. A more secure world ought to be built on cooperation rather than on isolation and confrontation. The Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty is crucial to global security and must not be jeopardized. A major cause of concern is also the uncontrolled and destabilizing spread of small arms and light weapons. The international conference on illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons next year will be an important opportunity to address the issue in a comprehensive way. It should result in a concrete action-plan in the global, regional and national context. The United Nations today is stronger and leaner than three years ago when the Secretary-General launched his reform programme. But there is still work to be done, for example regarding the interplay between the main bodies of the United Nations. We should give the Secretary-General the full authority to act in his leadership role. We support the Secretary- General's proposal for a shorter, more focused agenda for the General Assembly and restructuring of its work. Another main issue for the Millennium Assembly is to reach an agreement on the scales of assessment for the regular United Nations budget and for peacekeeping operations. While it is imperative that all members pay their dues on time, in full and without conditions, Sweden believes that a review of United Nations contributions should be done. The aim however must always be a fairer distribution of the financial burden among Member States, adapted to today's realities, and with capacity to pay as the guiding principle. The United Nations must not be used as a scapegoat when the real problem is lack of political will or hesitance from us Member States to provide necessary resources. Accordingly, any call for action must be followed by a pledge to provide the personnel or financial means. The United Nations, with its global character and legitimacy, can make a difference for mankind as well as for the individual. Behind the much used term globalization there are billions of people. They want us to provide hope. They expect us to act responsibly. They need to see concrete results. We are here, representing them, on a mission to make the United Nations a true guardian of human dignity.I join all those who have welcomed the start of this fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Endorsing the Millennium Declaration of the Millennium Summit, I reiterate its message: Let us — the peoples of the United Nations, faced with new challenges; brothers and sisters, partners linked by and in our support for the principles of our Organization; with the expectations and constraints of our countries and peoples, yearning for peace and well- being; likewise facing the requirements of globalization and the manifold risks of conflict and marginalization — be united in our action; let us say: “We the peoples”, inspired by new hope and new momentum, are for a better millennium. The delegation of Madagascar congratulates you, Mr. President, on your unanimous election to preside over the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, a tribute both to your eminent diplomatic qualities and to your country, Finland. We also pay tribute to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for the dedication and determination he displayed in presiding over the fifty-fourth session. We convey our congratulations to the Secretary- General on his efforts he has made. His actions will benefit all the citizens of the world, who are all anxious to leave deprivation and poverty behind. I also take this opportunity to thank, from this rostrum, the United Nations, for having adopted resolution 54/96 M of 14 March 2000, as well as all the countries and organizations that helped Madagascar following the cyclone damage at the beginning of this year. With regard to restructuring the United Nations, it is high time to enact such proposals as enlarging that cornerstone of collective peace that is the Security Council, streamlining the institutional structure to make it work better, and improving the financial structure with a view to a more equitable assessment of contributions. The power of the veto, which in itself constitutes a nullification of democracy, is incompatible with the founding principles of our Organization. We know that, unfortunately, Africa is a place of perpetual conflict, but a new impetus is manifesting itself in the search for lasting peace and reconciliation. With regard to the crisis in Comoros, Madagascar respects the position expressed by the Organization for African Unity (OAU) at its thirty-sixth Assembly of Heads of State and Government, held at Lomé. The Antananarivo Agreement of April 1999 remains the viable solution for bringing to an end the separatist crisis in Anjouan, a crisis that was caused by the unconstitutionality of the regime currently in power. Madagascar welcomes the efforts undertaken in Burundi by President Nelson Mandela in his capacity 18 as mediator and facilitator. Those efforts led to the signing of the Arusha agreement, which we hope will allow the people of Burundi to be united once again and to find peace and a new impetus for development. Madagascar has long supported the struggle for self-determination of the Sahraoui people and encourages the implementation of the United Nations Settlement Plan as the only viable mechanism able to resolve the differences between the two parties. We welcome the outcome of the mediation efforts undertaken by President Ismail Omar Guelleh of the Republic of Djibouti. Thanks to those efforts, Somalia is now beginning to find peace after more than a decade as a non-State. The election by the parliament in Djibouti on 25 August 2000 of Mr. Abdikassim Salad Hassan as the new President is a step towards agreement. The people of Somalia can now embark upon the process of restoring a State of law and civil peace through their own efforts and with the support of the international community. The desire in recent months for dialogue between the two Koreas is encouraging. We welcome the summit conference held in Pyongyang in June 2000 to discuss peaceful reunification that led to the signing of a joint North-South declaration. The family reunions that took place after half a century of separation were moving, and such meetings should be facilitated in the future. The decision to have the athletes of the North and South march together at the Olympic Games in Sydney reflects a desire for reconciliation. Madagascar is a peaceful island in the Indian Ocean. Through me, my country reiterates its commitment to carrying out disarmament. We are counting on the implementation of the conventions prohibiting the production, proliferation and illicit sales of weapons of all kinds. On 25 August 1999, Madagascar ratified the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. Furthermore, our Parliament's ratification process for the Convention on Biological and Toxin Weapons has begun. The proliferation of light weapons is one of the causes of the spread of conflict. My country therefore fully supports the convening in 2001 of an international conference under the auspices of the United Nations on the illicit trafficking in light weapons in all its aspects. We pay tribute to the United Nations peace volunteers who were victims of the recent terrorist act of aggression in West Timor. We underscore the need for a joint strategy to deal with the current wave of violence. Thus on 1 October 1999, Madagascar signed the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. We look forward to a speedy conclusion of the draft convention for the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism. Madagascar strongly supports the recommendations of the Brahimi report and looks forward to their effective and speedy implementation so as to strengthen the peacekeeping capacity of our Organization. We should stress the training, equipping and safety of peace volunteers. In this connection, the countries concerned and neighbouring States should make their contributions. Adopting a comprehensive approach to conflict prevention is necessary because the problem needs to be tackled at the source. Because we support democracy and the observance of human rights and the rights of citizens, Madagascar joined in the decision taken at Algiers in 1999 during the thirty-fifth OAU Assembly of Heads of State and Government to condemn the taking of power through unconstitutional means. A resolution of the thirty-sixth Assembly, which was held at Lomé, urges the international community to condemn with one voice such anti-democratic practices and to enact sanctions against regimes that result from such practices. In the new millennium, let us ensure that children remain at the heart of our collective efforts. The twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly, on social development, held in June 2000 at Geneva, emphasized the need to protect children, to inform them of their rights and to educate them fully in order to prepare them for citizenship. In order to mark the Millennium Summit, on 7 September 2000, Madagascar signed Optional Protocols: one to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the involvement of children in armed conflict, and another to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Gender equality is for us an ongoing challenge. We condemn anything that runs counter to the progress of human beings, and we endorse the common struggle against social scourges and transnational 19 crime. We also wish to draw attention to the upsurge in such new areas of concern as sex tourism, paedophilia and the spread of HIV/AIDS. Moreover, together with my sister Ministers for Social Affairs, we spoke out in favour of a united struggle against those scourges in a letter to Secretary-General Kofi Annan. What Africa needs is easier access to care and medications. Without opposing in any way the noble principle of freedom of thought and expression, we deplore the ill effects of any type of physical or moral aggression that is the result of the proliferation of cults, and media representations of obscene and immoral images. In this regard, legal instruments should be designed and implemented to create parameters for the electronic dissemination of material that poses a threat to morality. The signing by Madagascar on 7 September last of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography attests to our determination to work to safeguard the family unit and family values, which are a source of human dignity and which guarantee stable sustainable social development. In this context, Madagascar adopted a law in 1999 which outlaws paedophilia. Madagascar has also involved itself in the various stages of the negotiations that led to the adoption and the signing, on 14 September 2000, of the Protocol on Biosafety, the objective of which is to avert the dangers of using genetically modified substances. Madagascar is also against any use of the research relating to the cloning of human beings. The economic and social difficulties facing my country are made worse by the uncertainty and changes in the international system. We must therefore strengthen international dialogue on the basis of partnership and shared responsibility. We are convinced that the promotion of a culture of peace and of mutual understanding will help bring about a harmonious world. Accordingly, Madagascar supports General Assembly resolution 53/22, which proclaimed 2001 the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. We hope that this session will outline strategies that are consonant with the requirements of development and of human security, in keeping with the plan of action proposed by the Secretary-General in his report. An overall rethinking of development is necessary, because it is in everyone's interests to increase the purchasing power of the developing countries, so that in the near future they can become equal partners as well as a potential market. We deplore the glaring inequalities that exist today: our peoples are suffering from famine and malnutrition, whereas some others are enjoying amazing overproduction. This imbalance does nothing to promote commercial and financial flows. We therefore support the Millennium Summit Declaration, which proposes the adoption of a duty-free admission policy for products exported by the developing countries, an increase in official development assistance, and the implementation of a debt relief and forgiveness programme. The holding in May 2001 of the third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries should lead to decisions that ultimately will help to eliminate the least-developed-country category from the scale of world economic values. Accordingly, we support the principles of self- confidence and of mutual trust in the establishment of a monetary fund — a development fund — and a commodity price stabilization fund. This initiative seeks to both reduce the vulnerability of the developing countries to exogenous factors and to decrease the dependence of our economies on those of the developed countries. Concerning Africa specifically, regional and continental integration is vital in order to avoid marginalization. In this respect, Madagascar signed the draft Charter of the African Union, which is the expression of the rebirth of a responsible, sovereign Africa. Important meetings await us in 2001, including the high-level intergovernmental meeting on financing for development and the special session to follow up on the World Summit for Children, which are all opportunities to give real meaning to the commitments undertaken during this Millennium Assembly. We have come to this historic session convinced that it will breathe new life into our Organization and provide the basis for a dynamic for peace and 20 cooperation. We have come here because we have confidence in concerted action to meet today's challenges. We have come here because we have hope in a viable future free from need in a world of well- being and peace.   It gives me great pleasure, Sir, to extend to you, on behalf of my country's delegation, our congratulations on your election as President of this session, and to wish you every success in the management of its affairs. I would also like to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, who administered the work of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly most competently. I wish also to seize this opportunity to express our gratitude to Secretary General Kofi Annan for his initiatives, which have been instrumental in putting an end to tension in many parts of the world and for his endeavours aimed at reform of the United Nations and the enhancement 10 of its role, so that it may better fulfil its duties, according to the Charter. A word of welcome is also due to the Republic of Tuvalu, which joined us a few days ago as a new member of the United Nations. This session is convened in the aftermath of several developments. In the past few days, the Secretary-General submitted Comprehensive report on peacekeeping operations; it included a number of recommendations that would assist the United Nations in assuming its responsibilities in this field. Furthermore, over the last few months, the General Assembly convened two special sessions, the first conducted a review of the progress made in the implementation of the outcome of the World Conference on Women, and the second reviewed progress in the implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and beyond. Last week, this hall witnessed the convening of the Millennium Assembly, at the conclusion of which the leaders of the world expressed their adherence to the United Nations and renewed their commitment to the purposes and principles of its Charter, as well as their intent to lend it their support and to enhance its role to enable it to cope with the new century, with all its changes and challenges. In our view, these developments will undoubtedly contribute to the efforts aimed at achieving the goals of this Organization. However, it must also be noted that we are still far from achieving the ultimate goal for which we strive namely, the establishment of a world that enjoys peace, security, freedom, equality, and justice, a world free from oppression, acts of aggression, and attempts to impose hegemony and domination. There are many regions in the world today that suffer from wars and conflicts. Famine and diseases such as cancer, malaria, and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) still threaten the lives of millions. Resources provided by nature for the sustenance of life are being seriously endangered. Developing countries have not benefited from the advantages of globalization in a manner proportional to their suffering from its negative impact. In fact, international financial institutions have started to impose severe conditions on these countries to the extent that they find themselves at the mercy of a new form of colonialism. Attempts to intervene in the internal affairs of other States have threatened to eliminate sovereignty not only to violate it. There are also unilateral boycott policies and imposition of unjust sanctions, even aggression, under the pretext of so-called international legitimacy. Old ideological barriers have been replaced by new barriers that obstruct the States of the South from access to technology they desperately need for development, and that impose trade protection measures on their products by making other markets inaccessible to them. We are also witnessing selectivity in the sphere of disarmament and double standard policies in the treatment of international issues. Furthermore, criminal activities have increased, including illicit drug trafficking, the financing of organized crime and all kinds of transnational crimes. Such is the current state of the world, with its various variables and challenges, after the collapse of international equilibrium. Such a state of affairs necessitates the adoption of certain measures to combat and rectify the prevailing conditions. The United Nations, in its capacity as an instrument and reference authority for all, should perform a pivotal role in dealing with these variables. However, we believe that the Organization will not be capable of making an effective contribution in this respect unless radical reforms are introduced into the composition of its organs and the working mechanisms of its entities. In order to guarantee success for this process, we should make it a comprehensive one that takes into account the aspirations, ideas, and proposals of all Member States, big and small, strong and weak. The responsibility for success or failure of this process must ultimately be a joint responsibility. My country, wishing to contribute to the ongoing efforts aimed at reforming the United Nations, believes that the required reform should achieve the following objectives: first, strengthening the role of the General Assembly so that it becomes the authority responsible for determining and deciding the conditions that must be deemed truly threatening to international peace and security. A mechanism answerable to the General Assembly should be established to ensure the implementation of its resolutions and to enable it to control and hold accountable other United Nations organs, including the Security Council, which itself should be an executive entity for the implementation of General Assembly resolutions. Secondly, restructuring the Security Council so that it achieves fair geographical representation in its membership, with equity for African, Asian, and Latin American States that are not fairly represented in the membership of the Council. Thirdly, improving the ways and methods by which the Security Council conducts its work so that its activities are rendered more transparent. Its rules of procedures should also be reviewed. In fact, the General Assembly, which represents all the Member States of the Organization, should issue such rules; otherwise, it would be meaningless to say that the Council acts on behalf of the international community. Fourthly, we urge the abolition of the prerogatives that the victors of the Second World War granted to themselves, particularly the right of veto, which should be eliminated because it is non- democratic and undermines the principle of the full equality of Member States, as enshrined in the Charter. Fifthly, in order to enable the Organization to follow up on its plans and programmes, we propose the establishment of an international committee answerable to the United Nations, with subcommittees that cover most regions of the world, empowered with the necessary mandates and resources to undertake the tasks of inspecting and implementing United Nations programmes. Despite the problems suffered by many African countries, the current year has witnessed some encouraging developments. In Somalia, Parliament was able to choose a new President for the country and the disputing parties in Burundi signed a national reconciliation agreement. The fighting that broke out between Ethiopia and Eritrea has been contained and both sides have signed a ceasefire agreement. These solutions were the fruits of efforts made by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and a number of African leaders who sincerely care for the security, stability and development of the continent. For its part, my country has contributed to all these efforts and will pursue, in cooperation with the OAU and the Secretary-General of the United Nations, our initiatives aimed at securing a just settlement acceptable to all parties to the conflict in Sierra Leone. We will also continue our good offices with the aim of finding a solution to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Great Lakes region on the basis of the implementation of the Sirte agreement, which was completed in Lusaka, for the purpose of ending the dispute in that region. From the outset, we in Libya have realized that Africa's problems are partly due to its disunity and the fragmentation of its own peoples' efforts. Therefore, in order for the continent to be truly capable of facing the challenge of disputes, disease and backwardness, as well as others imposed by new international situations, Brother Colonel Muammar Al-Qadhafi, the leader of the revolution, has pursued his efforts to unify the continent so that it may be ushered into the new century strong and unified. It was in this spirit that a meeting of African foreign ministers was held in Tripoli last April, at which the founding law for the African Union was drafted. This law was approved in LomÈ last June at the Assembly of Heads of State and Government. At the invitation of the leader of the revolution, the African presidents will meet in Sirte early next year to declare the official establishment of the African Union. This bears witness to the fact that Africa has overcome the negative aspects of the past and realized the dream of unity, which has been the aspiration of African peoples for decades. All these initiatives and endeavours provide new evidence that Africa fully realizes that the solution to its problems and the advancement of its capacities reside basically in the efforts of its own sons and daughters. Nevertheless, it should be emphasized that international peace is indivisible and that international stability cannot be achieved partially. This means that the international community has an obligation to assist Africa in its efforts to realize peace and stability on its soil. As we reiterate today our invitation to all States to help Africa in developing a programme to eliminate epidemics and diseases, provide a solution to the problem of its external debt and ensure that the continent is dealt with on new, just and equitable terms, rather than be considered merely as a consumer market for the products of the industrialized world, we wish to recall, as we have always done, that Africa's problems lie in the abuse of its resources, the plundering of its wealth and riches, intervention in its internal affairs and the imposition of foreign concepts alien to its traditions and culture. We demand that such practices be discontinued, as they constitute one of the main reasons for political instability in many parts of the continent and for economic backwardness in most. We also call upon the States that colonized Africa, drew its borders and scattered and enslaved its people to offer their apologies to the continent and to fully compensate it for all the damage inflicted by colonialism. 12 No solution has yet been found to the Palestinian question because the essence of this problem has been ignored. My country emphasizes once again that there is no solution to the Palestinian problem other than the return of the Palestinian people to their homeland and the establishment of their State on the land of Palestine, with Jerusalem as its capital. On this occasion, as we salute the people of Lebanon who, thanks to their steadfastness, were able to defeat the enemy and liberate their occupied land, we once again stress the need for an end to the occupation of the Syrian Golan Heights. We also demand the immediate lifting of the sanctions imposed on Iraq and call upon the international community to put an end to the human tragedy endured by that country's people, to preserve the unity and integrity of its territories, to respect its sovereignty, to refrain from interfering in its internal affairs and to cease the military aggression waged daily against it. The international community has made continuous efforts in the field of disarmament. My country, which is a party to most international conventions in this area, is still fully convinced that some international conventions addressing certain aspects in this field should be reviewed. I would refer, as one example, to the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, which deals only with simple weapons of limited effect. We, as one of the third world peoples who are incapable of defending our borders and lands against the powerful who possess aircraft carriers and aircraft that refuel in flight, feel that humanity should be preoccupied with the destruction of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as well as with ballistic weapons, rather concern itself with mines, which are a simple form of weaponry. On the other hand, we have noticed that a number of obstacles still hinder the efforts to establish a world free of weapons of mass destruction. Those who possess nuclear arms have not yet undertaken actual measures to dispose of their nuclear arsenals. In fact, some of them have continued to develop these weapons vertically, instead of beginning to destroy them. The Israelis, who possess hundreds of nuclear warheads with which they threaten the Arab people from the Atlantic Ocean to the Arabian Gulf, still refuse to join the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to place their nuclear installations under the supervision and the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency. In raising this most serious and momentous subject, we are fully convinced that, unless the international community adopts effective measures to force the Israelis to accept and implement the international conventions on nuclear disarmament, and unless the nuclear-weapon States take practical steps to prove the seriousness of their undertakings, efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear arms will be utterly worthless and any claims concerning the destruction of nuclear arms will be a major act of deception that will not fool the peoples of the world. Terrorism still constitutes a source of grave danger to humanity, because no effective measures have been taken to trace the roots of this phenomenon in order to eradicate it. My country, which has been a direct victim of state terrorism, has relentlessly reiterated its strong condemnation of terrorist acts and its willingness to cooperate with all international efforts aimed at their elimination. My country's eagerness to put an end to terrorism was so strong that we called in 1992 for the convening of a special session of the General Assembly to consider methods to eradicate all forms of terrorism and violence. Today, in reiterating this request, it is most important that we clarify that the correct approach to eliminating terrorism must begin with providing a definition for terrorism that is universal, objective, democratic and scientific. It is genuinely unacceptable that some still classify the struggle of peoples for their freedom and the fight of persecuted groups against their persecutors as forms of terrorism, whereas they turn a blind eye to real terrorism, embodied in unjust sanctions, occupation, invasion, foreign military bases, naval fleets, weapons of mass destruction and the use and threat of use of force. Unless all such matters are dealt with, it is certain that any international efforts to eliminate terrorism will be of no avail. We believe that it has become necessary to take additional measures to reinforce international systems, such as the Statute of the International Criminal Court, concerned with the punishment of perpetrators of the most serious crimes against international security. In its present form, the Statute is designed to try only the weak. We ask that it be modified to guarantee the trial of all perpetrators of acts of aggression, drug smugglers and their trading partners, those responsible 13 for massacres of innocent people, and those who commit acts of aggression against United Nations troops. We look forward to the establishment of a world in which equality and justice prevail and which is free from discrimination, oppression and injustice. This will require the drafting of laws that preserve the rights of mother and child and guarantee that a person may own his own house and be a partner in his own productive work, that his basic needs will not be subject to commercialization and that his rights are not usurped as a source of income. We also look forward to taking practical measures that lead to the realization of a world free from motives of aggression, manifestations of violence, epidemics and diseases. We also hope that efforts will be joined to combat the phenomenon of the white poisons'. Moreover, in order to protect our planet from the dangers that threaten it, we should work to eradicate pests, strive to establish low-cost water desalination systems and seek to prevent the flow of waters of rivers, rain and snow to seas and oceans. Furthermore, all factors that hinder the prevention of desertification and the expansion of agricultural development should be removed. One of these factors is the problem of mines and other remnants of war from which many countries, including my own, still suffer. There are still millions of mines in our lands planted by the fighting forces during the Second World War. We hope that the States responsible for planting these mines will respond to the international decisions that call upon them to make available maps for their locations and to provide technical assistance for their removal. Allow me now to raise a subject that has preoccupied the attention of the international community for the last seven years, namely the dispute between my country and a number of Western States concerning the Lockerbie incident. I would like to focus on the manner in which the Security Council has dealt with this issue since the suspension of the sanctions in April of last year. As you are well aware, more than a year and a half have now elapsed since the two suspects appeared before the Scottish court convened in the Netherlands. Almost the same period has elapsed since the Secretary-General submitted his report to the Security Council pursuant to resolutions 883 (1993) and 1192 (1998), in which he confirmed that my country has fulfilled the demands stated in the relevant Security Council resolutions. Despite all these developments, however, the Council has been prevented from adopting the resolution that requires the lifting of the sanctions, because of the intransigence of one country, the United States. This intransigence has been such that a threat to use the right of veto was voiced. The United States gave a number of justifications to prevent the Security Council from lifting the unjust sanctions imposed upon the Libyan people. The first of these justifications is that Libya still supports terrorism. This is a groundless pretext. My country, which was itself a victim of terrorism in 1986 and before, has repeatedly declared its condemnation of international terrorism in all its aspects and forms, and stressed its support for all international efforts aimed at its eradication. Moreover, the Secretary-General's report has given irrefutable proof concerning the vacuity and lack of truth of all American claims that Libya supports terrorism. The second of these American justifications is that Libya should cooperate with the Scottish court convened in the Netherlands. This is a refutable justification, as my country has pledged from the beginning, that it will cooperate fully with the court. This pledge has, in fact, been proven since the court started reviewing the case. In fact, the United States is the one that has not fully cooperated with the court by hiding basic information requested by the court, which in itself violates Security Council resolutions that call upon all States, and in particular the concerned ones, to cooperate with the Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands. The third, and the strangest of these justifications, is the demand that Libya pay compensation to the families of the victims of the Pan Am Flight 103. The question to be raised here is: How could the United States ask for compensation while the Scottish court has not yet reached a verdict? Does this not constitute a complete disregard for the legal principle that stipulates a presumption of innocence until the accused is proven guilty? Furthermore, why does the United States jump to conclusions and deliver a ready conviction, while acquittal or conviction is a matter for the court alone to decide? Libya's fulfilment of its obligations was confirmed by the Secretary- General's report a year and a half ago. It was also reaffirmed by the decisions of the Summit of the Organization of African Unity, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the Arab 14 League and lastly the Group of 77 and China, which called for a complete lifting of the unjust sanctions imposed on the Libyan people. In view of all of the above, my country demands the following: First, this issue should not politicize, as it has now become a legal matter that should be left to the discretion of the Scottish court convened in the Netherlands without interference from any parties. Secondly, the Security Council should, as early as possible, adopt a resolution under which the sanctions imposed on the Libyan people are fully and irrevocably lifted. This is the only procedure that reaffirms the commitment of the Council to paragraph (16) of its resolution 883 (1993), and the second paragraph of its resolution 1192 (1998). It would also reaffirm the Council's response to the wishes of the absolute majority of the international community, on whose behalf the Council is supposed to work. Should the Council be further hindered from adopting the required resolution, my country will have no choice but to resort to this august Assembly so it could take the necessary measures to vindicate us vis- ‡-vis one State that refuses to lift the sanctions, a State that was behind the imposition of these sanctions in the first place.Mr. President, I should first of all like to congratulate you on your election to the Presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I wish you every success in this task which is both difficult and inspiring. Allow me to include in this tribute the Secretary- General who has a crucial role in promoting international cooperation for peace, security, justice and development in the world. I fully associate myself with the speech made by my French colleague, Mr. Hubert Vedrine, on behalf of the European Union. His declaration covered quite broadly European concerns regarding different regions of the world and the crises they continue to experience. Like my European colleagues, I will confine myself to repeating the encouragements of the European Union for the Israelis and Palestinians to seize this historic opportunity now within their reach to conclude a framework agreement in the coming weeks. The new century is a blank page. It depends on us and on our Organization to provide the appropriate answers to the challenges inherited from the past century. The Heads of State and Government who gathered here for the Millennium Summit set forth the objectives that will mobilize our energy for the coming years. I will only mention three of our highest priorities. First, world peace. This is the primary responsibility of the Security Council. It is therefore essential to bring the ongoing reforms to a successful conclusion and to improve the Council's legitimacy as well as its representative character. To adapt the Security Council to the evolution of the world is the primary condition for its ability to respond to our expectations. Belgium coordinates a group of ten small and medium-sized countries in the quest for constructive compromise formulas. Regarding the enlargement of the Security Council, the creation of ten new seats, five permanent and five non-permanent, with an equitable geographical distribution, seems to us to be a path worth exploring. As for the right of veto, we have put forward a number of concrete and moderate proposals seeking a voluntary and partial limitation to the right of veto. Such a reform, a balanced one along these lines and responding to the wishes of most Member States can, and should make significant progress in the months to come. Secondly, the elimination of poverty and attainment of sustainable development. The globalization of the economy must proceed hand in hand with job creation and economic take-off in the poorest regions as well as with universally recognized social and environmental norms. There is no more denying that great inequalities, differences in development, the lack of good governance and disregard for human rights are factors which create instability, both within States and among States in their international relations. Thirdly, the defence and promotion of democracy and human rights. For us this requires equal participation of men and women in public life and decision-making, as well as the fight against all forms of racism, intolerance, discrimination and xenophobia. 8 Serious violations of human rights and universal values must therefore never be allowed to go unpunished. This also implies a permanent quest for the conditions, modalities and terms that underlie common human values. Democracy and on this at least we should all agree is much more than a statement of fact regarding an established balance of power or an arithmetic majority. It is a political morality that includes loyal electoral behaviour. It is respect for, and encouragement of the open expression of differing points of view. It is a frame of mind based on a lofty and optimistic conception of the human being. I say this because, even at home in our old European democracies which one would consider safe and sheltered, we see reappearing the vile spectre of rejection of differences, exclusion and xenophobic or slanderous prejudice. European parties are again raising and exalting what is most sordid and most barbarous in human nature. Saying nothing or resigning oneself to this fact is tantamount to trivializing the phenomenon and trivialization means corruption of the spirit. I say this also because we must recognize that our political systems, in theory well equipped to withstand such assaults, unfortunately tend all too often to give in to the temptation to minimalize them under the specious invocation of so-called higher demands of realpolitik. It is not my purpose here to allege some moral superiority but simply to remind ourselves that history always exacts a price when one refuses to learn from its lessons. Belgium has participated over the past decade in numerous peacekeeping operations under the auspices of the United Nations, among others in Somalia, Rwanda and in the Balkans. Reviewing these experiences, the Belgian Senate issued a detailed report in December 1997 containing recommendations that prefigure, to some extent, the recommendations contained in the Brahimi report. I will point out a few aspects on which there is complete convergence between the two reports. First, United Nations forces must be prepared to confront the worst case scenario. The Blue Helmets must be trained, equipped and commanded for such an eventuality. Secondly, these forces must have at their disposal all relevant information, as well as the capacity to analyse such information in terms of strategy and tactics, so they must be able to rely on an effective intelligence capability. Thirdly, troop-contributing countries must be closely involved in the preparation of the mandates and in the management of operations. The Assembly will not be surprised to hear me plead for the recommendations formulated in the Brahimi report to receive wide support of all Member States. I hope that all actors concerned the Member States, the Security Council and the Secretariat prove their determination and their will to extend reforms to all levels and bodies of the Organization. I pledge the full support of the Belgian Government to Deputy Secretary-General Louise FrÈchette, who is responsible for their implementation. I would also like to point out that, in our opinion, the conclusions of the Brahimi report cannot be dissociated from other discussions to be held during the fifty-fifth session, specifically those on the revision of the scale of assessments for peacekeeping budgets. In this regard as well, Member States will have to keep an open mind in order to set up an equitable system of financial burden sharing that is adapted to the current shape of the world. Another sensitive question manifests itself clearly in the light of recent experiences, namely the proper role of the United Nations in relation to regional organizations, and indeed even in relation to the initiatives of neighbouring States in a conflict zone. Lessons to be learned from the Yugoslav crisis are not the same as those that can be drawn from recent crises, particularly those in Africa. The goal in this regard is not to deny the merits of the regional approach. On the contrary, Belgium supports the creation of regional rapid reaction forces in the service of peacekeeping, as was underlined one week ago by our Prime Minister, Guy Verhofstadt, before this very body. It has to do more with highlighting the fact that the merits of the regional approach clearly can never justify inaction on behalf of the international community or some sort of oratory diplomacy that passes off solving problems to regional bodies and organizations or to temporary coalitions. The Security Council, as the supreme authority in matters of peace and security, must be able to play its role, although it 9 should certainly be possible to refer some tasks to regional institutions most able to take action. I would like to make one last observation regarding preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping. The arsenal at the disposal of the United Nations is not limited to sending troops. Other means are available and, moreover, have been used repeatedly during recent years. I am referring to sanctions, and in particular to economic sanctions. This type of coercive measure, if applied by the Security Council in accordance to the Charter, can indeed produce the results envisaged when their use is well targeted and limited in time or when they are inscribed in a realistic timeframe. But experience also shows that when they are applied indiscriminately or when they serve overtly ambitious political objectives, their effectiveness tends to decrease after a certain amount of time, and they may even produce results wholly opposite to the ones initially envisaged. It is increasingly rare for sanctions to be an useful instrument. Too often, they only penalize populations without reaching the targeted rulers, who often understand how to exploit the boomerang effect of such sanctions. I would like to move now to a subject dear to my heart, Central Africa. During the past year, my country has expressed strongly its desire to be involved in, and to contribute to, the mobilization of the international community in support of the Lusaka peace process. It is essential that all Congolese parties engage resolutely and without preconditions in a dialogue, as they agreed to do in Lusaka. It is equally essential that our Organization and its Members who have the means to do so support the rapid deployment of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), even though some of the conditions and modalities of that operation may have to be reviewed in the light of the Brahimi report. One thing is certain: without the presence of a peacekeeping force there will be no peace. Nor will there be peace, or even a permanent cessation of hostilities, without a dialogue between the Congolese parties. Both these questions are obviously linked. In order to overcome the current impasse it is essential to make progress where possible. It therefore seems to us that the problem should not be stated in terms of preconditions, order of events or priorities. In any event, the responsibility of the Security Council and the international community remain in place. Without a political leap by the parties to the conflict, and without the necessary material support of the international community, the peace process is doomed to fail. In Burundi, where action by the countries of the region and the remarkable facilitation undertaken by former Presidents Nyerere and Mandela have started to yield promising yet still incomplete results, it is also time for our Organization and the principal donor countries to act to consolidate the gains achieved and to set the country once and for all on the path to peace and development. It is in this spirit that Belgium will participate actively in the meeting organized by the European Commission that is to be held in Brussels on 15 September to prepare for the donors' conference soon to be convened by France on the request of Nelson Mandela. Regardless of how well-intentioned they may be, efforts in the cause of peace can sometimes be to little avail, given the greed and rivalries fuelled by the illegal exploitation of local resources. Resources attained in that way are financing wars, which themselves become a source of profit. The problem of the diamond trade in conflict areas is at the centre of this question. We know that war diamonds represent only a fraction of international trade, but these illegal revenues nevertheless contribute to destabilizing the situation, encourage the logic of war and spread corruption and anarchy. Belgium is active in the efforts to create a global system of verification. It is high time indeed to put in place a realistic and effective legal framework binding on everyone in order to regulate the trade in diamonds. I would now like to speak about non-proliferation and disarmament. Last April, during the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Belgium intervened vigorously to express its concerns regarding a certain number of elements that could lead to the weakening or putting into question the very foundation of the non- proliferation regime negotiated in recent decades. We certainly welcome the conclusions of the Conference and the reflection that it triggered. That has led to a favourable climate for the implementation of the plan of action. That being said, numerous States still refuse to adhere to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, while others have not yet ratified the Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We have followed closely, and with some concern, the debate in the United States on anti- ballistic defence. Belgium is not opposed in principle 10 to the idea of anti-missile defence. We are only stating that the political perception, the analysis of the threat and the means to counter it vary greatly from region to region. There is no unique or universal response, but what is essential is to make sure that an anti-missile system, whatever it may be, should contribute to general stability and to the consolidation of mutual confidence. In other words, the decisions will have to be taken not only on the basis of a strategic and technical analysis, but also on a consensual basis that builds upon the overall political and strategic balance. We welcome the decision by the American Administration to postpone its decision on the launching of a programme. Besides the question of the feasibility of such a programme, its unilateral nature would have a negative impact on our common disarmament objectives. We now hope that this decision will encourage negotiations for a START III agreement between the United States and Russia. Rapid progress on a new, substantial reduction of strategic nuclear arms could in turn lead to breaking the impasse in negotiations for a fissile materials cut-off treaty at the Disarmament Commission in Geneva. Belgium also welcomes heartily the adherence to date by 138 States to the Convention on the prohibition of anti-personnel mines. Further efforts have to be made in order to implement it and mobilize the necessary funding to eliminate these especially inhumane weapons forever. I have dwelled mainly on peace and international security. I would like to turn to the two other subjects that Belgium considers a priority in the programme of action of the Millennium Summit. Without these priorities, our efforts in the field of security would be fruitless. I am referring to universal respect for human rights and worldwide development. The protection of human rights is a leading feature of my country's foreign policy. Our participation in the Commission on Human Rights will enable us to further enlarge our initiatives and our political action. We will be able to act more directly in the fields where we have a particular interest, such as the fight against racism and xenophobia, and the rights of the child. Belgium was actively involved in the negotiation of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child aimed at sparing children as much as possible from the suffering and consequences of armed conflict. The signing of that Protocol on the occasion of the Millennium Summit, as well as our country's signature of the second Protocol, on sexual exploitation of children, are specific signs of our common will to reinforce the protection of the rights of the child. I would like to reiterate my country's wish to see the death penalty permanently abolished all over the world. I also appeal to countries that are not in a position to do so at this time to adopt a moratorium as a transitional measure. We certainly cannot accept the death penalty still being implemented in cases of those who were minors at the time of the offence, pregnant women or the mentally ill. We are following very closely the evolution of international law and jurisprudence aimed at condemning persons convicted of crimes against humanity. My country has been at the forefront of national legislation in this context and hopes that these measures can serve as a deterrent and an example for other States. We have just ratified the Statute of the International Criminal Court, and we are encouraging other States to do the same in support of this important commitment. Let me say a few words on globalization and its problems. Globalization is the expression of an inevitable technological evolution. It makes little sense to condemn this evolution as a whole, for it is natural and has many positive effects, but we need to channel its dynamics towards real economic and social progress for the well-being of a larger number of people. But the globalization of the economy and trade cannot simply mean the renunciation of our political and institutional responsibilities. The risk is very real. We are already witnessing a form of abandonment of responsibilities in the case of Governments and Parliaments confronted by the gigantic challenges of globalization and the almost impossible task of dealing with them at the national level. In the absence of a really effective and recognized global authority, the dynamics of globalization could lead us into a political vacuum. There will be no new economic world order without a new political world order in which national democratic institutions, politically representative and accountable, can play a role. This is another challenge facing our Organization and its Member States. We will have to provide an answer in the new millennium. The United Nations system is at the heart of the issue of globalization, whose effects are becoming more and more evident. Questions have been raised; now it is time to find the answers. We are convinced that only the United Nations system, with all its spheres of activity, is in a position to harmonize global economic development with human development. Here, more than anywhere else, we realize that human beings, wherever they come from, share a high degree of common aspirations, as well as the same fears, the same needs and the same dreams. This belief has to guide us in all our actions, both here and at home. I wish to congratulate the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Namibia, Theo-Ben Gurirab, on his wise leadership of the fifty-fourth General Assembly and his able preparation of the Millennium Summit. I would also like to offer the incoming President, Harri Holkeri, my best wishes upon your assumption of this high office. Your commitment and experience will be invaluable in ensuring the success of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Italy fully supports the statement made on behalf of the European Union by the current President, French Foreign Minister Hubert Védrine, and will make a decided contribution to the objectives he has indicated. Allow me to add that it is also in order to step up our commitment to achieving common goals that Italy is presenting its candidature for the Security Council for the next biennium. The year 2001 will be the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. By unanimously adopting the relevant resolution in its fifty-third session, the General Assembly demonstrated its great sensitivity and attention to the profound structural changes under way in our national societies. It thereby sent a strong signal on a number of themes that the Secretary-General has put forth in his report on the role of the Organization in the twenty-first century. These themes cannot fail to include the new face of international migration, whose gravest aspects include illegal immigration and the trampling of human dignity. Dialogue among civilizations should not be addressed in the abstract, academically. It demands real contact and a bond between individuals and peoples. To ensure that these contacts and this bond do not mutate into tensions and strife, the community of States must try to understand and manage migratory phenomena. We must work together to prevent migration flows from plunging into chaos, a chaos for which the human person ultimately has to pay the highest price. Migration needs to be governed by fixed, transparent rules. The source, the rationale of these rules is the United Nations, to which the San Francisco Charter in Article I, paragraph 3, entrusts the fundamental role: “To achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character.” I submit to you that today migration between or within continents has become an international problem with an economic, social, cultural and humanitarian character. Any solution to the problems connected with migration must come to terms with the globalization process. Globalization has reduced distance and time. To an unprecedented degree it has linked countries at opposite ends of the earth. There are even those who speak, perhaps not wrongly, of “the end of geography”. The paradox facing us stems from the real difficulties of globalization extending not only to the economy, finance and information but also to the movements of peoples. Most of these difficulties can be ascribed to the complex transition of many advanced countries to multi-ethnic and multicultural societies. Human beings are not commodities. When individuals move, they preserve their roots, their specificity and their experience, even when they come into permanent contact with societies different from their own. Hence the need for mutual tolerance, to safeguard our respective customs and traditions. 9 The growing dimensions of migration have widened the gap between individual government's management capabilities and the individual person's ability to move, which is heavily influenced by progress in communications. All too often this gap is filled by organized crime, by ruthless criminals who, in some cases, traffic in human beings, in what amounts to a modern form of slavery. We need to ask how we can safeguard freedom while impeding slavery; how we can prevent global economic development from sparking social tensions; how we can ensure that the growing contact between different civilizations will produce dialogue rather than intolerance. It will take a strong, determined commitment from all of us to draft rules that, if applied, can have a positive impact on international migration flows, to the benefit of both home and host countries. Improving millions of human lives is the fundamental challenge of development: we need a clear, explicit and effective commitment to eradicate poverty. We must realize that in a globalized world, migration can gradually impoverish areas that are already economically and socially disadvantaged. Development assistance initiatives from industrialized countries and non-governmental organizations alike cannot defeat misery and poverty, unless they are accompanied by an awareness that foreign debt is a huge burden for Governments, families and individuals. Generous remission of the poorest countries' debt is not just an option: I feel it is a must. This is why the Italian Parliament recently approved a law to reduce foreign debt owed to Italy by a total of $6 billion over the next three years. Italy will also play a pro-active role in urging the leading actors in the field of development assistance to show determination in preparing the conference on less-developed countries scheduled to take place in Brussels next May. Moreover, my country confirms its support for the needs and aspirations of the small- island States and the landlocked countries, as it has emphasized in the Economic and Social Council and other forums. But debt reduction is not enough. It should be coupled with sound government policies in the beneficiary countries, as part of an integrated strategy underlying a new international social contract. In other words, we must promote a package that combines responsible political, economic and social reforms with an opening-up of international markets. The 2001 high- level intergovernmental meeting on financing for development will provide us with a close opportunity to finalize a strategy. The fears that immigration sometimes generates should not lead industrialized countries to build new walls and fences. Such fears reject contact with diversity and make some feel as if they were strangers in their own country. A Europe built on fear, for example, would ultimately cast immigrants as the imaginary enemy, as a race apart. Any effort to overcome such negative stereotyping should be applauded, such as the Conference against Racism, scheduled for 2001 in Pretoria. The European Union has a great capacity to take in people, and already has large immigrant communities. But only now is it developing a common approach to immigration. The European Union's strategy relies on cooperation with other countries, since the issue cannot be addressed solely through border patrols and tougher repression of illegal immigration, regardless of the cost. For many years Europe did not have to worry about the long-term consequences of immigration. But today, with a declining birth rate and an ageing population, Europe needs a strategy that embraces the complex process of integrating people from different regions of the world. Then, there is the tragic, heinous trafficking in human beings. As the United States Secretary of State Madeleine Albright stated in this Assembly, we must put a stop to this trafficking, a stop to boats being cast into the sea, filled with sadness and desperation, driven by hopes in a promised land. The pictures of these illegal crossings have become unbearable. They epitomize a state of affairs governed by the black market, where there is an over-abundance of illegal labour. This new form of piracy would be impossible if those involved knew that they could not count on collusion, safe havens and, all too often, impunity. For example, the Mediterranean Sea, around which great civilizations have prospered, is being crossed by people who pay ruthless exploiters and sometimes become their victims. In many cases, illegal immigrants find it hard to gain access to the rule-of- law society, and end up being treated as commodities. 10 As we know, immigration has various causes: poverty, ethnic and religious strife, the repression of totalitarian regimes, and the demands of more affluent economies. Today, as never before, immigration is driven by broadcast images that often distort honest hopes for a better life. Moreover, it has reached unprecedented proportions. In fact, since the early eighties the number of countries that receive immigrants has risen from 39 to 67, while the number of countries of emigration has risen from 29 to 55. We would be fooling ourselves to think that a phenomenon of such proportions could be brought under control solely through bilateral agreements. The European Union has made cooperation between national Governments a priority since the European Council meeting of October 1999. But recent experience points to the need for an approach in which only the United Nations can confer the indispensable character of universality. Italy has much to share in this regard. Until a few decades ago, large sections of our population were forced to seek work in distant lands with different languages and traditions. Their lives were often marked by hardship, want and family separation. This chapter of social history had points of light and of darkness, but on the whole it was a source of great moral and spiritual wealth. Starting in the early 1970s, Italy became a land of immigration, although it could not yet provide full employment for all its people. As a land of both emigration and immigration, Italy is well situated to address in a constructive manner global migration today. Italian domestic law is based on the principle of “soft integration”, designed to provide permanent residents with an opportunity that does not force them to renounce the rich heritage of their native cultures. It is on these grounds that, here before the General Assembly, I urge the United Nations to raise the awareness of the community of States and introduce appropriate instruments. Three instruments, in my view. deserve to be coordinated and integrated. First is assistance to the developing countries; assistance in preventing and quelling the tensions that, at least in part, give rise to migration flows, as well as assistance in easing the integration of their economies with those of the more advanced countries. As we all know, this is a priority that the United Nations is pursuing through various committees and through the enhanced role of the United Nations Development Programme. We must strive to improve the instruments already available to us, responding to the visionary proposals of Secretary-General Kofi Annan. Secondly, as a deterrent to illegal entry, we need stricter and more consistent law enforcement. Success depends on effective cooperation between the countries of origin, the countries of transit and the countries of arrival. Such efforts should also aim to prevent the spread of pockets of illegality and organized crime by promoting greater stability, moral authority and control in fledgling democracies. This would be invaluable to securing the support of public opinion in industrialized countries for cooperation policies. Thirdly, we need to manage migration so that it is a source of stability and wealth, to the benefit of all. For this to happen, migration must take place legally. If everyone complies with the law, immigrants will be welcomed in their host countries and become fully integrated into society. These three guidelines must be set within a global framework. There are plenty of organizations that deal with migration at the international level. Yet while they provide praiseworthy services, their sectorial nature means that they cannot have the kind of overall vision that only effective coordination can guarantee. A solidarity pact, therefore, is needed to find the best and most effective way of balancing the supply of and demand for labour, while fully respecting the diversity of the people concerned. The greatest challenge in the age of globalization is to design new forms of cooperation between Governments that will enable each to see that its interests are reflected in international policy decisions. The United Nations continues to be the most natural forum for adopting such decisions and ensuring their implementation. I want to conclude my message today by recalling the words of a great American President, John Fitzgerald Kennedy. Almost 40 years ago he said, “Now the trumpet summons us again ... to bear the burden of a long twilight struggle ... against the common enemies of man: tyranny, poverty, disease and war itself. “Can we forge against these enemies a grand and global alliance, North and South, East and West, that can ensure a more fruitful life for all mankind? Will you join in that historic effort?” (Inaugural Address, 20 January 1961) That is what he said, and this is the wish that I should like to make here: that the United Nations, through its indispensable role, may strengthen its contribution to creating a better and more just world with the unflagging support of its membership.On behalf of the Belize delegation, I extend my congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency. Your vast experience in international affairs will greatly aid in our deliberations during this fifth-fifth session of the Assembly. We are enriched by the presence of our newest Member, the Republic of Tuvalu; we welcome Tuvalu to our United Nations family with the assurance of Belize's cooperation and support. The recently concluded Summit, which produced a progressive and far-reaching resolution, has set the pace for our deliberations during this general debate. Although the goals are ambitious, their achievement is crucial to the future of the United Nations. In his brief address to the Summit, my Prime Minister stated: “we are called to a new appointment with history: to bring democracy to global governance, to share a better and more productive future where all can live in dignity and peace.” (A/55/PV.3) Together with the goals put forward in the Declaration, this sets before us an agenda for our way forward. In moving forward, we must begin by rededicating ourselves to upholding the fundamental principles of our Charter, principles which seek freedom from fear and want in a world where discrimination and hate are eradicated and the right of all people to live peaceful, quality lives is realized. These ideas are as relevant today as they were 55 years ago. Despite the many advances we have made, many of us continue to allow our differences to lead to conflict, which results in overwhelming suffering and hinders human development. We must avoid these costly conflicts, for without peace we cannot grow. At its inception, this institution recognized that peace and the elimination of war were essential to human development. Although we seem to have reduced the likelihood of another global conflagration, we continue, at the regional and local levels, to allow our differences to divide us, resulting in overwhelming suffering, which further hinders progress and development. As a global institution, we must actively work to end all conflict. Our peacekeeping efforts must therefore be proactive and efficient. Our forces must protect innocent women and children; provide refuge to those who seek to promote principles of democracy; and rise up against rogue individuals and organizations that threaten to undermine democratic Governments. To achieve this, let us first commit ourselves to reinforcing the preventive capacity of the United Nations peacekeeping forces. 2 Belize regards peacekeeping operations as an important component of the United Nations. We agree that for our forces to be effective, they must be well equipped and capable of defending themselves. We continue to meet the financial commitments assigned to Belize based on the principle of capacity to pay. We welcome the recent Brahimi report, which is progressive and takes a comprehensive look at our peacekeeping efforts. My delegation supports the recommendations it advances. Belize adheres to the principle of the peaceful resolution of conflicts, and in this spirit continues to work with Guatemala to arrive at a negotiated and peaceful resolution of our differences. Belize will comply with the recently agreed framework established through the Organization of American States. For some time now, this institution has engaged in a conversation on development for the future and, more specifically, on globalization. For developing countries, globalization, as it exists today, poses serious concerns that seem to fall on the deaf ears of those who continue to push us along what is obviously a destructive path. While we welcome the promises of this new economic order, we continue to fear globalization in its current form, for what we have seen so far is neither responsible nor sustainable. It is not sustainable because those who lead the way seek only the advancement of their personal interests. The proponents of globalization advised that market liberalization would lead to prosperity. We were encouraged to transform our economies and create more effective and efficient government. We have tried, and continue to try, to do so. However, our call for assistance with this transformation has not always been heard. However, much of what has been asked of most of us, we have done. The fact that today in Central America and the Caribbean every nation is legislated by a democratically elected Government and that we have opened our borders, markets and lifestyles to others, demonstrates our commitment to transparency and effective governance. In Belize, we have done our part to ensure equitable development. We enjoy a vibrant and working democracy where 85 per cent of our voting population exercise their franchise to vote; we have an open economy where all are encouraged to participate; and we have formed partnerships with civil society to address social needs and protect our precious environment. We have been responsible, yet all we see of globalization is the threat of the elimination of our current economic sustenance. If this is the legacy of globalization, then those of us who have suffered at the hands of this new order must ask if globalization today is responsible, if it is good. We continue to believe that it can be. (spoke in Spanish) In the current economic order, small economies such as ours can aspire to a productive future only if the architects of this new modality provide us with the necessary assistance. Developed countries must commit themselves to a process of globalization that is not only free, but fair. Just as they request the opening up of our markets, such institutions and the administrators of globalization must be more open, democratic and representative. Thus, just as we work with civil society to help us to deal with our political and social needs, they must work together with the international civil agencies so that the needs of the poorest can be provided for. We will never achieve the objective of just world if poverty continues to affect our people. The eradication of poverty is our moral duty. (spoke in English) We agree that true sustainable development cannot occur without the protection and preservation of our environment. This must be a path that combines the efforts of all nations. We in Belize understand that we have a global responsibility to protect our natural resources. That is why we are signatories to the Framework Convention on Climate Change and are in the process of signing the Kyoto Protocol. However, our efforts can be effective only if others are equally committed. We encourage our developed partners to continue to honour the commitments they made in Rio to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a timely manner. Currently, over 40 per cent of Belizean land is under protected status, our precious coral reefs are closely monitored and our tropical rain forests carefully managed. Together with local non-governmental organizations, we are seeking an adequate balance between the protection of our natural resources and the fulfilment of the development needs of our people, while agreeing that our environmental protectionism must work in harmony with our developmental needs. Much has been accomplished over the past year. On social issues, we reaffirmed our commitment to the development of women during the Beijing + 5 conference. The Copenhagen + 5 conference addressed the need for greater social development and, together with our partners in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Belize actively participated in the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 3 (NPT). Belize continues to push for an end to the shipping of nuclear waste through the Caribbean Sea. These successes, however, should not distract us from the suffering and injustices still being endured by millions of people. In Africa the situation in Angola, Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo concerns us. The spread of the HIV/AIDS virus is alarming; we must do what is necessary to assist those afflicted. We are troubled by the situation in Timor. The recent events, which resulted in the death of United Nations peacekeeping personnel, were tragic. We also learned of the death of another United Nations official in Guinea. We condemn these acts, and join with the Secretary-General in expressing our condolences to the families of those who gave their lives for the cause of peace. Belize joins others in support of the Middle East peace process. We continue to support the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination. Likewise, we call upon this Organization to recognize the desire of the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan for the opportunity to contribute and participate in the work of this Organization and other international bodies. The Millennium Declaration, adopted by our heads of State and Government, reminds us of our responsibility to protect those fundamental values such as freedom, equality, solidarity, tolerance, respect for nature and responsibility. It calls for collective action to be undertaken by developed and developing nations to advance the cause of peace, protect our children and preserve the planet for future generations. These are goals that can be achieved through greater inclusion and genuine concern for each other. We must find new ways of thinking to help us reform these institutions, which create inequality and therefore divide us. Let us commit ourselves to reducing redundancy, eliminating waste and refining our responsiveness to Member needs, but let us do it quickly. The United Nations is our truest form of global representation. It possesses the capacity to elicit the best from all of us. Together, our ability to accomplish these ideals set out in the Millennium Declaration is possible. Let us rededicate ourselves to its fulfilment.   The historic Millennium Summit and the forward-looking Declaration it adopted have set a very positive tone for the Millennium Assembly, which is now continuing with this general debate. We extend our heartiest congratulations to Mr. Harri Holkeri on his well-deserved election as the President of the fifty-fifth session. His deep commitment to the values and principles of the United Nations gives us the confidence that the affairs of this Assembly are in very good hands. I should also like to congratulate Foreign Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab, my dear colleague, for his superb leadership of the fifty-fourth General Assembly. We are grateful to him for his invaluable guidance in the preparations for the Millennium Summit and its outcome. May I also express Bangladesh's sincere thanks and gratitude to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his vision in convening the Millennium Summit and for his untiring efforts towards its success. His millennium report contains a number of good proposals and ideas, which we wholeheartedly support. I reiterate Bangladesh's full support and cooperation to the Secretary-General in his determination to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations. Let me at the very outset extend our heartiest congratulations to the people and Government of Tuvalu as the newest Member of this Organization. Twenty-six years ago this month, when Bangladesh had just become a Member of this Organization, the Father of the Nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, addressed this Assembly. He underscored our commitment to the Charter of the United Nations. For our people, it was a great moment. We have travelled a long way since that time and our commitment to the United Nations has only grown in strength. As Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina mentioned in her speech at the Millennium Summit: “In this Organization, the powerful and the weak, the large and the small, the wealthy and the struggling come together as equals to address their problems, to forge cooperation and to further understanding. It certainly is in our interest to strive for a United Nations which can fulfil our common goal — a better world for every human being”. To the people of Bangladesh, human rights is a sacred trust, because we were victims of its abuse. And yet the very person who had championed the cause of fundamental rights was denied the most basic of all human rights, the right to life. I speak of the ghastly murder of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, along with almost his entire family and close relations, by a group of assassins on 15 August 1975. The murderers had committed a crime and human rights abuse of the worst kind. And, in what could best be described as an arrogant affront to human rights and democratic principles, the killers were granted immunity from law by the so-called Indemnity Ordinance issued by the undemocratic regime of that time. 15 The present democratic Government in Bangladesh has repealed the Indemnity Ordinance since its assumption of office. The accused have been tried and found guilty of murder, and the verdict of the court of law has been announced. Some of them, however, have managed to escape justice by finding asylum in foreign lands. If human rights is to dominate the agenda of the new century, we would urgently ask the international community for its cooperation in bringing these self-confessed killers to Bangladesh to face justice. Here I would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to those countries which have been cooperating with us in this matter. To Bangladesh, a very important manifestation of human rights is the right to development, which needs further assertion by the international community. In ensuring that right, it is essential that our collective efforts focus on addressing poverty. Unless we take positive actions in this regard, globalization will be more of a challenge and less an opportunity — freedom from want will remain elusive. The challenges are particularly daunting for the least developed countries and merit priority attention. Just as globalization touches us all, marginalization of these vulnerable countries would affect us all in the global family. We would urge the international community to make every effort for the success of the third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries in 2001 in Brussels. In the past decade, the international community has made tremendous progress in recognizing the challenges and adopting elaborate programmes of actions in the areas of social development, human rights, environment, population, human settlement and food security, as well as on women and children. Now the challenge before us is to fulfil the commitments we have made together. Let us resolve that the next decade will be the decade of implementation. At home, in facing the challenges of the coming decades, poverty eradication has been set as the over- arching goal of the present Government of Bangladesh, under the leadership of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. We are making increasingly great investments in our people and in our social and human development. In ensuring the effectiveness of this engagement, Bangladesh has focused on the rights of women and children. Bangladesh has become party to most of the international instruments relating to the rights of those two groups. During the Millennium Summit, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the two Optional Protocols on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography and on the involvement of children in armed conflict. Adoption of the “Woman and Child Repression Prevention Act, 2000” by our national Parliament is also a major step forward in eliminating violence against women and children. Unfortunately, our efforts towards sustainable human development have been set back through calamities beyond our control. Sometimes it is natural disasters like floods, cyclones or tidal surges. Sometimes it is silent killers like dengue fever or arsenic contamination of groundwater. Today, two thirds of the Bangladesh population is at risk as the result of arsenic contamination of drinking water. The Government has responded to this crisis with urgency and determination; in collaboration with international agencies such as the World Bank, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO), as well as non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Adequate emphasis has also been given to ensuring alternative sources of safe drinking water for the community. In her statement at the Security Council summit two weeks ago, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina emphasized that international peace and security must also be understood in terms of human security. She also emphasized that we should prevent war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide against the civilian population. We believe that the establishment of the International Criminal Court can effectively deal with these crimes. We signed the Rome Statute last year and have already initiated the process for early ratification. As an elected member of the United Nations Security Council, Bangladesh remains committed to its obligations to maintain and preserve international peace and security. Bangladesh strongly supports enhanced effectiveness of the United Nations peacekeeping operations, as well as its peace-building measures. Bangladesh is proud to be one of the largest troop contributors to United Nations peacekeeping operations, in fulfilment of our commitment to global peace and security. In this context, we welcome the recommendations of the Brahimi Panel and look forward to their consideration by the relevant intergovernmental bodies and the Secretariat. Here we 16 would emphasize that the resources needed for their implementation should not in any way undermine other, already existing programmes. An area of our common concern has been United Nations sanctions, their effectiveness and their impact. It is a matter of satisfaction that the Security Council, after years of debate, has set up a Working Group under Bangladesh chairmanship to study various general issues related to sanctions. We are confident that the work of the Group will help the Council to agree on measures to streamline the sanctions regimes. To ensure peace and development, we must move ahead with an agenda for real disarmament. The nuclearization of our own region in South Asia has caused us concern. As one of the least developed regions in the world, South Asia cannot afford to get into a race for nuclear weapons. In accordance with its constitutional commitment to total and general disarmament, Bangladesh took the lead in South Asia to sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) in 1996, ratifying it earlier this year. We also were among the first in South Asia to sign the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel landmines, which was also ratified by us during the Millennium Summit, along with the Convention on certain conventional weapons (CCWC) and all its Protocols. Bangladesh considers peace and development to be fundamental rights. One cannot endure without the other. The United Nations and its Member States must continue to espouse and promote a culture of peace. Bangladesh took the initiative for the international observance of this millennium year and the first decade of the twenty-first century as the International Year for the Culture of Peace and the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World, respectively. As we have said on earlier occasions, Bangladesh believes that the United Nations should be prepared to respond effectively to the challenges of the new century. Since United Nations reforms were initiated by Secretary-General Kofi Annan, a lot has been done, but much more could be added to this. We aspire to greater democratization and transparency in the organizations of the United Nations. We also believe that involvement by non-governmental organizations and other actors of civil society can significantly enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations. A changed world needs a changed United Nations — an Organization for today's world. We need to demonstrate courage and determination in order to preserve the United Nations as the world's most universal forum. Its founding fathers spoke about the scourge of war. Today the United Nations will only live up to the global reality if it cannot only free the world's people from the scourge of war but also save succeeding generations from the scourge of poverty. May Bangladesh live forever. May the United Nations live forever.  Allow me to convey to you, Mr. President, the warm congratulations of Her Excellency, Mireya Moscoso, President of the Republic of Panama, together with those of her Government and the people of my country, on your election to serve as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. Your designation to guide the debates in this forum is highly gratifying to the Panamanian delegation, not only because of your own brilliant political record and your well-known devotion to the well-being of the Finnish people, but also because of the noble way in which you here represent the lofty ideals of sovereignty and universal cooperation in pursuit of world peace, sustainable human development, human rights, democracy and justice — traditional mainstays of Finland's foreign policy and of the activities of the United Nations. Panama shares with so many other States Members of the Organization your concern to put these ideals into practice, and that is what I shall be addressing today in my statement. I am also glad to pay tribute to, and express my gratitude for, the activities of the Secretary-General, 7 Mr. Kofi Annan, who has devoted particular effort in the last year to the maintenance of international peace and security, the reform of the Organization, and the promotion of human rights, gender equality and the enjoyment of the rights of the child. Panama shares these and other concerns of the Secretary-General. Indeed, as the other members of the Ibero-American community are aware, upon an initiative of President Mireya Moscoso announced at Havana in November last year, the next Summit of Heads of State and Government of Ibero-America, which will take place shortly in Panama, will be dedicated to discussing the problems facing children and young people in our region. In the preparations for this meeting, which Panama has undertaken with the greatest enthusiasm, the national Government has received the support of organizations devoted to the well-being of the world's children and young people. These include the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) — a United Nations agency which has selected Panama as its new regional headquarters and to whose noteworthy activities, in fulfilment of its mandate, I am glad to pay tribute on this occasion — together with agencies responsible for promoting culture, particularly the culture of peace, including the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), another United Nations agency which has done extremely valuable work in promoting universal understanding through education, technology and communication. With respect to gender equality, we are glad to be able to state that in recent years our country has made significant progress, particularly with respect to the political participation of women. Indeed, since 1 September last year a woman has guided the destiny of our nation. From January this year our Supreme Court of Justice has been presided over by a woman. During the review conference on women held in the context of the special session of the General Assembly in June 2000, the delegation of Panama signed the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, which makes it possible to have recourse to an international body in case of the denial of such rights. Furthermore, Panama has made significant improvements in access for women to education and health. However, much still remains to be done, particularly with respect to equal access to economic resources. In this area, which is closely bound up with sustainable human development, my country hopes to make significant advances, particularly through international cooperation. On this point, international cooperation, I should like to share some brief thoughts and place them before this distinguished body for consideration. More than 40 years ago one of my predecessors in the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Miguel J. Moreno, addressed this General Assembly on the topic of international cooperation for development. On that occasion Minister Moreno stated: “Economic development, and international cooperation for the attainment of such development, are not only necessary if world peace is to be achieved, but also represent important means of cementing it and making it durable.” (A/PV.749, para. 176) Dr. Moreno added: “Social tranquillity and national political stability depend on economic development and on the benefits which the peoples derive therefrom, as do also a better understanding among the nations and international harmony; all these are indispensable for world peace.” (A/PV.749, para. 178) These wise words are as true today as they were when they were uttered at the thirteenth session of the General Assembly in 1958. It is this wisdom that has guided the renewed emphasis that the United Nations, in the last decade and through its United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), has placed on the promotion of sustainable human development. This concept is the axis and basis of our President's governmental plan. Our Government recognizes that without measures to promote human development, economic growth can make no sense and have no meaning. Although it may be boosted by economic growth, human development is much more than economic growth, for human development means enhancing the capacities of human beings as individuals and as members of the community by measures that provide access to emancipating education and to better health and transport services, measures to permit participation in an economy and a culture that respects human dignity, that encourage the prudent use of natural resources, and foster and enlarge the exercise of the 8 fundamental duties and rights of the human individual. Given this multidimensional nature and the Panamanian Government's concern to work towards sustainable human development and to promote human rights, the Panamanian delegation expresses its satisfaction at the contents of the latest UNDP human development report, which considers the link between human rights and human development. The report explains that human freedom is the common purpose and the common motivation of human rights and human development. In the years that have elapsed since our return to constitutional government our country has made significant advances. Under our Government we have begun a process of repealing legislation that restricts freedom of expression and we have invited the Inter- American Commission on Human Rights, a significant regional agency, to assist us in promoting the enjoyment of human rights in Panama. Also recently, through a process of cooperation involving the major political movements in the country, we have adopted by consensus the basic elements of a Panamanian security policy based on the doctrine of human security, an extremely important component of sustainable human development. That doctrine upholds individual and grass-roots communities as constant, clear-cut points of reference for the responsibilities and purposes of the State's security strategy, and is based on taking preventive measures designed to reduce vulnerabilities and minimize the risks threatening the opportunities and rights of individuals and of communities. I am particularly gratified to be able to state that Panama is one of the few countries to have adopted the human security doctrine as a State policy. We hope that this will be a matter for more in-depth discussion and analysis at the next Summit of the Americas to be held in June 2001 in Quebec, Canada. In the context of this and other aspects of sustainable human development and the exercise of human rights, Panama firmly believes in international cooperation and has recourse to it in order to promote the lofty objectives that are the inspiration for States Members of the United Nations. At the recent Millennium Summit, whose purpose was to set a clear course for the United Nations in the twenty-first century, Panama, among other things, called for States Members to return to the pursuit of the original spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. Pursuant to this request, it is our hope that the members of the Security Council will assume the obligation of representing the general interests of the international community instead of acting according to their individual strategic military or political interests. The general interest of the Members of the Organization indicates that the time has come to engage in debate and reach some conclusion as to the way in which we can expand the number of permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council while restricting and regulating the use of the veto. We have expressed our agreement with the need to reform the Charter of the United Nations in order to achieve this objective and others, provided such reform is based on the principles of democracy and equitable geographic participation. Panama wishes here and now to reaffirm its commitment to the principle of self-determination of peoples, articulated in the Charter of the United Nations, and to the use of mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of conflicts. The dangerous disputes which riddle and split our world from the China Sea to the Magreb, and which may degenerate into domestic or transboundary outbreaks of violence, must be addressed with a sense of urgency by the United Nations. This would be possible within a structured, conflict-prevention programme that provided for specialized support to nations to guide them and assist them in a fair and orderly, peaceful negotiation of their interests. Accordingly, we recommend recourse to the moral and technical presence of the United Nations within such processes, engaged in by small States beset by hostile Powers, or by racial or religious intolerances. Likewise, we recommend recourse to the United Nations in support of negotiations on reunification or self-determination that other people may wish to embark upon, with the aim of preserving a prosperous, democratic way of life or of securing for themselves the benefits of development. The Republic of Panama nowadays is a fully sovereign State glad to have recovered the exercise of sovereignty throughout its national territory, and to have proved its resolve and ability to fulfil the commitments stemming from its participation in this great international community. Panama has the will and the capacity not only to administer efficiently and transparently its greatest asset, the Panama Canal, but also to cope successfully with the growing demands for 9 international maritime traffic and to ensure the security of our inter-oceanic waterway. The Canal and the reverted lands will be the driving force behind the development of the Panamanian economy in coming years. Among other large-scale projects, we are now executing the extension of the Culebra Cut, a $1 billion investment that, once completed in the year 2001, will permit simultaneous passage of Panamax vessels through this section of the Canal. Once this work is completed, projects will be begun to expand the Canal's water basin. Moreover, consultations and studies are under way with a view to building the third set of locks, which will make it possible for the inter-oceanic waterway to be used by post-Panamax vessels and will increase the efficiency of the Canal by 25 per cent. All this will benefit world trade. Lastly, in the coming year bidding will be opened for the construction of a second bridge over the Canal in order to help unite our land, which is currently divided by the Canal. In the lands recovered and now devoted to national development, former military installations of all kinds have been expertly retooled for commercial civilian use. Among other things, the former Albrook air base has become a centre for domestic air and land transport; the former School of the Americas has been converted into a hotel of the Meliá international chain, with its own convention centre; the Coco Solo military base, which enjoys a unique location at the Atlantic mouth of the Canal, today houses the international maritime cargo ports of Manzanillo and Coco Solo, which complement the international port of Balboa on the Pacific, all interconnected by a trans-isthmus rail system for container transport; and in the forts of Davis, Corozal and Cocol', processing centres are now being developed for exports, with the backing of international capital. With input from the International Financial Corporation, studies are being undertaken to convert the Howard air base into a multifunctional air and sea cargo centre for the Pacific side of the Canal. The development of the Sherman base, which is a genuine ecological gem, seeks to link the protection of the country's historical patrimony and environment with economic development. Fort Clayton is now the base of an educational and industrial complex known as the City of Knowledge, where the regional office of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) for the hemisphere will be located. The City of Knowledge is also home to regional campuses of Texas A & M and McGill Universities and a continental-level regional centre for human rights. All of this will contribute to the Government's plan to make Panama a centre of international agencies. In order to take full advantage of international cooperation, Panama has adopted a policy of strengthening its links with the various major international organizations, including those that are part of the United Nations system. In this way we are striving to move forward and contribute to worldwide peacemaking by converting former military bases into civilian and commercial areas that will enhance world peace. This is an appropriate occasion to place on record that Panama categorically rejects the actions of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which has unilaterally devised taxation standards that its members are trying to impose outside their jurisdiction, in open violation of resolutions of the General Assembly. On this point, Panama is grateful for the support of the majority leader of the United States House of Representatives, who on 7 September wrote to the United States Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Lawrence Summers, strongly condemning this action. There is a need for a careful examination of the flight of billions of dollars in capital from developing countries to the financial institutions of the first world which are trying to tighten the so-called qualifications that are used to exert pressure, with obvious objectives. Panama is committed to the fight against the laundering of money stemming from drug trafficking and other unlawful activities. We believe that all countries should work together to eliminate this scourge. This effort should be carried out through legitimate mechanisms of international institutions that are representative not only of the industrialized North but also of the emerging countries of the South, such as the United Nations and the various regional organizations. In the spirit of international cooperation, to which I previously referred, and in consideration of the most basic concepts of justice, we are today calling for the cooperation of the General Assembly in resolving a dispute between Panama and the United States of America, as a result of the bases operated by the armed forces of that country on our territory throughout the 10 last century. In this forum, in September last year, our President stressed her confidence that the outstanding differences surrounding this issue that still persisted between Panama and the United States would be resolved satisfactorily in a reasonable period of time. Unfortunately, despite the efforts and goodwill displayed by the Panamanian Government these differences have still not been settled. In his powerful report entitled “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”, and with respect to certain matters relating to trade, the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, proposes that States Members follow a line of conduct consonant with environmental and human rights standards. He also urges States to fulfil their obligations vis-à-vis universal values and the common standards that have emerged from countless conferences and extensive negotiations and that have taken the form of historic resolutions and conventions under the auspices of the United Nations. By extension, we believe that this appeal to States applies not only to trading matters but also to all the other aspects of relationships among nations. His profound words express the vast ethical foundation of the United Nations. In another part of his report the Secretary-General warns of the risk that environmental degradation, among other factors, may heighten social and political tensions in an unforeseeable and potentially dangerous fashion. We are particularly gratified by this clear vision on an issue whose various facets are already having a serious impact not only on many developing nations but also on the most developed. In view of these very wise appeals and warnings, as well as of the predominant role that the United Nations plays in the maintenance of international peace and defence of the principle of sovereignty, in a formal note, to the Secretary-General I have requested him to bring to the attention of the United Nations the failure of the United States of America to fulfil its obligations so that the Organization can assist in bringing about an early resolution of the dispute arising from the refusal of the United States to fulfil the commitments derived from the unauthorized military use by its army of significant portions of Panama's national territory. I have informed the Secretary-General of the facts and formally requested that my note be circulated as a document of the General Assembly and that it be brought to the attention of the Security Council. I take this opportunity to wish the General Assembly a fruitful year of deliberations under the guidance of its President. I should like to express my sincere hope that this year will be one of significant, meaningful and tangible achievements for the Organization in the treatment of the most important items on its agenda, to the benefit of all mankind.  Before discussing some of the concerns of the African continent and our views on some of the problems facing the United Nations, I should like at the outset to congratulate you, Mr. President, on having been chosen to guide the work of our world body at this important session. The high office to which you have risen in your country, Finland, and the major role that Finland plays in the world constitute a guarantee that the General Assembly is truly in good hands. I wish also to pay tribute to our brother the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose ability and dedication we highly appreciate. The General Assembly session that took place 40 years ago was seen as the session of Africa. It was at that session that many newly independent African countries participated in the work of United Nations bodies for the first time as States Members of the Organization. Yet despite the progress our continent has made over the past 40 years, Africa continues to be weakened by the ills of underdevelopment. Today, 33 of the world's 48 least developed countries are African countries. In other words, three fifths of the States of our continent belong to that group of countries that are lagging behind in the pursuit of development. As the world's least developed region, Africa suffers from a number of specific ills which hamper its growth and for which it is important that the international community help provide a substantial, effective remedy. Here I would first mention two pandemics that ravage the continent and whose human and economic consequences are particularly severe and alarming: AIDS and malaria. We are most grateful for the initiative taken last January by the Security Council to consider the question of AIDS in Africa. More recently, the Thirteenth International AIDS Conference, held at Durban, South Africa, took stock of the situation regarding the advance of the epidemic and of possible ways to control it. Members are undoubtedly aware that 70 per cent of the 34 million to 35 million AIDS sufferers worldwide live in sub- Saharan Africa, and that in some African countries schools have been closed because of the ravages of AIDS among the teachers. In a number of countries the skilled workforce has been considerably reduced by AIDS. The number of orphans in many countries affected by this epidemic is relatively high, thus exacerbating the economic and social situation of those countries. Therefore, it is essential that the international community rapidly and genuinely mobilize in order to help the African continent control AIDS and eliminate its ravaging effects. With respect to malaria, a special summit of heads of State and Government of the countries concerned was held on 24-25 April in Abuja, Nigeria, where a plan of action was adopted to combat the disease. Malaria kills one person somewhere in the world every 30 seconds. The Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), meeting in LomÈ from 10-12 July this year, appealed to the United Nations to proclaim the period 2001-2010 the decade to combat malaria. We firmly hope that this Assembly will respond positively to our appeal, at this session, taking the necessary measures to ensure the decade's success. The African debt problem was also of concern to the OAU Heads of State and Government at the LomÈ summit. At a session more than 12 years ago, the African countries adopted a common position on the African foreign debt crisis. Unfortunately, our continent continues to be the region of the world where the debt burden is heaviest. As the General Assembly noted last year in resolution 54/202, `the continuing debt and debt-servicing problems of heavily indebted developing countries' 5 are one of the factors that hinder their development and economic growth. This finding should motivate the international community, especially the developed countries and international financial institutions, to take more courageous measures, such as the outright cancellation of the African countries' debt. Such a decision would greatly contribute to the success of the efforts of our countries, which have committed themselves to implementing sustained programmes to eradicate poverty. That is why we strongly support the proposals of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who believes that the industrialized countries should take a number of measures for the benefit of the African countries and other developing regions to ensure the possibility of their making significant progress in the new world economy. The African continent is grateful to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for its invaluable assistance over many years, resulting in the carrying out of numerous projects. However, the continuous decline in UNDP resources worries us, because it affects our development prospects. At a more global level, we note that major transnational companies, which play a crucial role in the world economy, are remarkably absent from United Nations economic forums. As in the International Labour Organization (ILO), where representatives of Governments, employers and employees work together, it is desirable that in the Economic and Social Council representatives of Governments should sit side by side with those of multinational companies. That would enhance the effectiveness and impact of this important United Nations body. The international community, for its part, should prove, by decisive action, that it truly wishes to put an end to the suffering of the poorest peoples, the largest proportion of whom, unfortunately, are in Africa. I take this opportunity to thank President Bill Clinton for having the United States Congress approve a law making possible the establishment of a closer partnership between the United States of America and the African States. I also welcome the convening in Cairo in April this year of the first Africa-Europe summit. We place a great deal of hope in such meetings, which can only strengthen the existing cooperation between the European Union and the African countries. It is well known that our continent is not afflicted solely by the economic underdevelopment that puts it in last place in terms of the quality of life. It is also a region of the world where numerous lethal conflicts continue to sow death and desolation. Consequently, Africa accounts for the largest number of refugees and internally displaced persons. We are grateful to the United Nations and its specialized agencies, particularly the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, for their assistance in helping our continent to control various conflicts and mitigate their disastrous consequences. We must recognize very sadly, however, that, by comparison to other regions of the world that have also experienced bloody conflicts, the attention that our continent receives from the international community is somewhat meagre. We strongly urge the Security Council to demonstrate the same concern for us that it bestows on other regions of the world that have been affected by conflicts, inter alia, Europe and Asia. We subscribe to the relevant recommendations made by the Panel of experts which the Secretary- General has mandated to consider all problems related to the improved use of peace operations. We are of the view that the mandates of United Nations peacekeeping missions should be clear, credible and achievable. These missions must be adequately financed and rapidly deployed where they are expected. They must be capable of fulfilling their mandates successfully and able to defend themselves and control all those who would seek to hinder their action on the ground. In the area of peacekeeping in Africa, the Organization of African Unity (OAU) has endowed itself over the years with valuable instruments for managing conflicts, such as the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, the Conflict Management Centre and the Early Warning System. More than five years after the creation of these mechanisms, we believe that they should be complemented by the establishment of an operational and effective African peacekeeping force. If such a force were created, it would discourage all subversive actions that underpin conflicts. That is why I have proposed, with a view to strengthening that force, the establishment of an African institute for peace and conflict prevention, with the assistance of the United Nations and the OAU. This institution would train African cadres in the art of 6 negotiation, conflict management and the culture of peace. The persistence of conflicts in Africa seriously affects the continent's opportunities for development and hampers its efforts to achieve unity. It was with a view to remedying this situation that the heads of State and Government of the OAU decided in Syrte, Libya, on 9 September 1999, to transform the OAU into a new organization to be known as the African Union. Its Charter was unanimously adopted at the 36th Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the OAU, held at LomÈ last July. We are convinced that, with the birth of the African Union, the continent will hasten its process of economic and political integration and strengthen the peace and solidarity that are indispensable to development. The General Assembly was right to convene the Millennium Summit that was held here last week from 6 to 8 September. That historic conference was held to consider the role of the United Nations in the world at the dawn of the twenty-first century. In my message to the Millennium Summit, I stressed two basic problems. One related to the activities of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security. The other concerned the stakes of development, particularly in relation to Africa. When the Organization was established 55 years ago, two thirds of its current Members did not exist as sovereign States and their peoples still lived under the colonial yoke. The planet had a scant 2.5 billion inhabitants, as compared to 6 billion today. Despite the expansion of the Security Council over the years, its composition has in truth remained virtually unchanged since the establishment of the United Nations. To use the words of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, this composition `does not fully represent either the character or the needs of our globalized world'. (A/52/2000, para. 44) We therefore think that it is high time to reconsider the composition of the Security Council, with a view to admitting new permanent members selected from the new economic Powers that have emerged since the Second World War, to which would be added regional Powers from the developing countries. These are a few ideas that I wanted to contribute to this general debate. Despite its imperfections and shortcomings, I think that the United Nations is irreplaceable, but we must do everything possible to enhance its impact and influence. In conclusion, I would like to underscore that the African continent, despite its difficulties, continues to be a region of great potential wealth; however, its resources have inadequately been inventoried, developed and exploited. We must not despair and think that Africa will not overcome these difficulties. We are resolved to do everything within our power to improve the political, economic and social situation of our continent. We simply need the benevolent assistance of all those who are today richer and are prepared to join us to bolster our efforts.Let me join in the congratulations addressed to Mr. Harri Holkeri and to his country, Finland, on his election to the lofty and responsible post of President of the fifty- fifth session of the General Assembly. I wish him every success in guiding the work of the Millennium Assembly. I should like to take this opportunity also to express our genuine gratitude and to pay due tribute to Mr. Gurirab for his outstanding diplomatic abilities and for the evident skill with which he guided the work of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. The further the passage of time separates us from the Millennium Summit, the more profoundly will we appreciate its historic outcome. Tajikistan welcomes the recommitment by world leaders to the role of the United Nations as the key mechanism for the collective regulation of international relations. We remain convinced that there is no alternative to the United Nations. No one actor is capable of dealing single-handedly with the new multifaceted challenges, risks and threats to international security and stability. Only through concerted and collective action on the part of the entire international community can we combat phenomena such as severe financial and economic crises, regional conflicts, international terrorism, organized crime and the illicit drug trade. The positive results achieved by my country in the implementation of the peace process in our nation are further proof of the key role of the United Nations in coordinating the efforts of States in the process of resolving armed conflict. Today, after seven years of confrontation, peace prevails in Tajikistan. Following the first multiparty, pluralistic elections in the country's history, held in February 2000, Tajik society is living in a new kind of environment and is laying down a sound foundation for the sustainable democratic development of the country. The considerable support of the international community, which, under the auspices of the United Nations, effectively promoted the advancement of the peace process in Tajikistan, played a significant part in the establishment of peace and stability in the country. The Tajik people will always remember the United Nations with gratitude and will always associate this Organization with the return of peace, democracy and conditions for sustainable development to our ancient land. On behalf of President Emomali Rakhmonov, I take this opportunity to express our great appreciation to the Security Council, the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, his special envoys and representatives, and the leaders of the United Nations teams and missions in Tajikistan for their enormous contribution to the successful completion of the peace process in my country. Our special appreciation goes to all those States — about 30 — that sent their citizens to Tajikistan as part of the United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan (UNMOT). The Tajik people will for ever keep in their memories the names of those who gave their lives so that peace could return to our country. We extend our sincere gratitude to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development 21 Programme (UNDP), the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the International Financial Corporation. They have rendered, and continue to render, every possible support to the people and Government of Tajikistan in their efforts to overcome the effects of the civil conflict and to rehabilitate the country's economy. At all stages of the peace process the Russian Federation made a decisive contribution to its progressive development. The Russian peacekeepers and frontier guards who lost their lives serving security and stability in Tajikistan and Russia will never be forgotten by our peoples. The guarantor States for the implementation of the peace agreement — the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Republic of Uzbekistan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Pakistan and the Islamic State of Afghanistan — rendered considerable support to the United Nations in achieving the successful settlement of the conflict. The joint efforts of the United Nations, its specialized agencies, the Bretton Woods institutions, neighbouring States, the United States, the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), and of all those others who sincerely desired to see a peaceful and stable Tajikistan, contributed to the successful implementation of the General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan, signed in Moscow on 27 June 1997. We are fully aware that a huge job of post- conflict peace-building awaits us. We hope that the United Nations office in Dushanbe will continue to operate effectively, rendering rehabilitation assistance, first and foremost, in the social and economic spheres. Much remains to be done, but what has already been accomplished at this stage is of great significance for the steady, peaceful development of Tajik society and for the entire Central and Southern Asia region. This is undoubtedly of paramount importance for the United Nations, since it constitutes one of the positive examples of successful activities by our Organization in the maintenance of peace and conflict resolution. We hope that the support for and assistance to Tajikistan needed to reinforce the gains of the peace process will be intensified. We count on the General Assembly's adopting during its current session the traditional resolution, normally adopted by consensus, on humanitarian assistance to Tajikistan. Large-scale humanitarian assistance is of particular importance this year, because in the spring and summer the whole of Tajikistan was affected by a drought on a scale without precedent in the twentieth century. The loss of grain crops on irrigated land proved to be from 30 per cent to 50 per cent. According to the World Food Programme (WFP), about 3 million people — in other words, every second citizen of Tajikistan — is inadequately fed. We greatly appreciate the Secretary-General's appeal for food assistance to the population of Tajikistan most affected by the drought, and we are deeply grateful to the WFP and all donor States that responded so promptly and generously to this appeal. Clearly, in the new century United Nations activities in the humanitarian sphere, in which it has already demonstrated its capabilities, will continue to play an important role. We believe that it is necessary to intensify the cooperation of Member States in this area in order to increase the international capacity to respond to natural and technological disasters. In our view, this is one of the realistic directions for the development of the Organization, which will allow all to take advantage of the opportunities provided by globalization. This is entirely achievable, once the efforts and capacities of the United Nations and other international economic and financial organizations are united. It would provide a demonstration of the global solidarity called for by the Secretary-General. Achieving sustainable development and ensuring the equitable consideration of the interests of both present and future generations on a global scale is one of the most serious challenges of the new century. Today we are not far from that boundary beyond which the processes of destruction of the natural mechanisms regulating the environment and global changes become irreversible. Our common objective is to meet the ever increasing needs of human development in the economic and social spheres, while not simply preserving, but gradually restoring natural ecosystems to conditions that will guarantee environmental sustainability. Much has been accomplished in this area over the last decade. Agenda 21, adopted at the Rio de Janeiro Conference, has become a fundamental document defining the main area of activities of the international 22 community on this topic. However, the dimensions of the task faced by humanity require extra coordinated efforts. Alongside the long-term problems, such as climate change, the preservation of biodiversity, and desertification, new ones are emerging, demanding careful consideration and concerted action. One is the problem of fresh water, a resource which is being gradually depleted. Depletion of ground waters has become a serious problem. According to some forecasts, by 2050 the population of the planet will not have an adequate water supply. The problem of drinking water is multifaceted and is not confined to purely economic issues. In “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century” the Secretary-General drew attention to the fact that, in order to have a sustainable future, it is absolutely essential that the international community tackle the current fresh water problems. Major concern about this question has been expressed by many non-governmental organizations, as well as by the private sector. It has already been discussed at international conferences, including, at the ministerial level, the Second World Water Forum held in The Hague, the Netherlands last spring, and it will be discussed at the forthcoming International Conference on water problems to be held in Bonn, Germany. All these steps, aimed at giving profound consideration to the matter and elaborating proper coordinated action by the international community, are precisely the purposes served by the initiative put forward by our President a year ago to proclaim 2003 the international year of freshwater. We hope that the relevant resolution will be adopted by consensus at this session. We would be well advised to recall our relationship with the two atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen that, bound together in nature, support our lives on earth. While the twenty-first century may present new trials for humanity, that which recently ended challenged the international community with the urgent necessity jointly to combat international terrorism, the drug trade and organized crime. The situation in many regions of the planet demands that the United Nations mobilize even greater international efforts to counteract these horrible phenomena more actively. The situation in Afghanistan in particular endangers regional and international security. The inter-Afghan crisis has transformed that country into a stronghold of international terrorism and made it the world leader in drug production. The situation in Afghanistan was recently the subject of a thorough discussion at a meeting of the Group of 6+2, held at the level of Foreign Ministers. Tajikistan is firmly convinced that there can be no military solution to the Afghan crisis; any victory by any party to the conflict will be temporary and will not lead to the establishment of peace and stability in that country. Only the United Nations, in cooperation with the Organization of the Islamic Conference, is capable of untying the tight knot of the Afghan crisis. Tajikistan fully approves of the activities of the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan and its Head, Mr. Vendrell. We express our hope that additional resolute measures to be undertaken by the Security Council and the entire international community will eventually allow the fire of war that has raged in that country for 20 years to be extinguished. Otherwise, as we have already seen, the terrorist and narcotic threats to regional and global security emanating from Afghanistan will continue to grow. Our duty is to help the Afghan people to return to a dignified and peaceful life and to erect a reliable barrier to the heroin-fuelled aggression and the cultivation of international terrorism encouraged by the Taliban, which threaten not only the countries bordering Afghanistan, but also those located far beyond the region. We are convinced that it will become possible to find a formula for peace and a way out of the Afghan deadlock only through our joint efforts and the leadership of the United Nations. In order to continue playing a key role in world affairs, the United Nations must continuously renew itself. Much has already been done to that end thanks to the important initiatives and effective actions of the Secretary-General. However, a number of issues that could have a real impact on the efficiency of the United Nations in the twenty-first century — inter alia, expanding the Security Council's membership — have yet to be addressed. Tajikistan is in favour of increasing the efficiency, balance and representation of the Security Council by incorporating highly industrialized countries, such as Japan and Germany, and influential developing States into its membership. We hope that this issue will be resolved with the broadest possible support. Each session of the General Assembly provides us with a unique opportunity to develop a unified approach and to coordinate our actions at the global 23 level for the sake of a truly democratic, secure and sustainable development of humanity. The Summit of world leaders, unprecedented in the history of mankind, has given our Organization a powerful political impetus with which to enter the twenty-first century. The Millennium Assembly should preserve this momentum and use it rationally for the sake of strengthening the community of nations and our common future. I am particularly pleased to express my congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Your great diplomatic experience and your thorough knowledge of international affairs are the best guarantees for the success of this session. While assuring you of the readiness of our delegation to fully cooperate with you, we would like to wish you the utmost success as you carry out your responsibilities. Allow me also to express my thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the remarkable role he played during the previous General Assembly session. His efforts made it possible to achieve positive results in the review and resolution of many issues. The Millennium Assembly takes place at a time when the world is at the crossroads of two different eras. This makes it particularly important that this fifty-fifth session provide us with the opportunity to take stock of what we have achieved together and to begin developing a forward-looking strategy that will allow us to face the current challenges. We can identify and face these challenges only within the framework of a multidimensional, international partnership in the political, economic, social and development spheres. President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and his peers who met at the Millennium Summit have underlined the main challenges that the international community must face. These challenges should set priorities for our joint efforts in the next stage, so that we can make the next millennium a millennium of international partnership, of the development of joint strategies, of the promotion of societies and satisfying their multiple needs, of the struggle against poverty and epidemics, of conflict prevention and of the establishment of a lasting 13 basis for peace and international security. In other words we should make this millennium truly a millennium of the common future of mankind. The Declaration adopted by the Millennium Summit is a document of historical importance. It paves the way for the future work of the international community within the framework of the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. In the Declaration world leaders reaffirmed these purposes and principles and renewed their commitment to them. They also reaffirmed their adherence to the United Nations as the only forum for the expression of the international community's choices for the future and as the ideal instrument for achieving our collective aspirations. At the end of the last millennium there were several major summits — including the Millennium Summit, the South Summit, the Non-aligned Movement summit and the two special sessions of the General Assembly, devoted to social development and women. The results of these summits and meetings, the visions expressed and the decisions taken regarding the future of international relations provide an important point of reference that makes it possible to develop a global and consensual strategy in order to build a true partnership between peoples and nations. The goal of this partnership should be to take up the future challenges together. Among the lessons we have learned from these historic meetings was the consensus reached by all countries on the need for a renewed vision of the working methods that we have followed every year in recent decades in order to adapt to the requirements of our time, when different aspects of international life in the political, economic and social spheres are all interlinked. The challenges of our modern world require a global vision and common action that would take into account the link between peace, security and sustainable development based on a political approach that combines democracy, human rights and good governance, as well as overall strategies for the fight against poverty on an international scale. Indeed, poverty has been identified by major international authorities and also in the statements that emerged from the Millennium Summit and the Security Council as well as by the Secretary-General in his reports to the Millennium Summit and to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session as one of the main causes of international economic imbalance and as a source of instability, conflict and tension in many regions of the world. In our opinion, the international community is called upon today to objectively develop a concept of international peace and security as well as the means to preserve them. It is called upon to adopt a broader concept that takes into account not only the direct causes of wars, conflicts and tensions, but also their entrenched roots and the means to resolve them in order to ensure their prevention and to guarantee peace and security. The last decade has shown the magnitude of the means that are required to resolve conflicts and tensions throughout the world. This has generated a weakening of international will when true and direct participation in the quest for solutions to the many conflicts was needed. The United Nations, despite its limited resources, remains the main actor that can resolve these conflicts. Previous experiences have taught us, among other things, that the principle of conflict prevention remains the best way to avoid conflicts and the resultant human tragedy and economic and social damage, which are difficult to remedy. Indeed, within this international forum, we must work with regional organizations and international financial institutions to implement a strategic plan of action with new dimensions that would enshrine the principle of prevention as the main way to avoid conflicts and to deal with their deep and structural causes, through a global vision that would take into account the pressing needs of economic and social development. Experience has proved that stability and internal harmony within and between countries will not be achieved without national development and interdependent interests. It is difficult indeed to imagine how a society can engage in internal violence or get involved in an external conflict if its interests are protected and if it enjoys well-being and prosperity — both fundamental conditions for peace and stability. This vision conforms to the reform process under way at the United Nations, in the Security Council and at international financial institutions that have realized that the cost of prevention is far lower than the cost of post-conflict reconstruction, especially since certain 14 consequences, those that affect human beings, are difficult to remedy. It is therefore high time that industrialized countries and international financial institutions honoured their commitments towards disadvantaged regions and countries in the form of official development assistance, by encouraging foreign investment and by settling the debt problem, including the servicing of the debt, in order to meet the requirements of development and to contribute effectively to formalizing the idea of prevention based on multifaceted international aid. Before concluding my comments on the matter of peacekeeping and international security in this new international environment, I would like to underline the following. First, there is a need to introduce necessary reforms into United Nations procedures when it comes to peacekeeping operations, especially since the activities of our Organization are no longer limited to traditional missions, but also encompass disarming and reintegrating combatants, removing landmines, establishing State institutions and monitoring elections. These new missions require greater material and human resources, as well as collective efforts. Of course, this requires a substantial strengthening of United Nations preventive capabilities. Experience has shown that the success of peacekeeping operations depends on the prior consent of the parties concerned, on a clear mandate and on the availability of necessary resources. We have also observed through our experience in peacekeeping operations that serious problems do exist, especially when it comes to delays in reimbursing contributing countries. The report of the group of experts, developed under the chairmanship of Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, contains important recommendations that command our attention and deserve in-depth study, especially since they deal with all aspects of peacekeeping operations. Secondly, the role of the Security Council in peacekeeping and international security is crucial and indispensable. It draws its strength from the fact that it is a universal tool and that it embodies international legality. As always since the 1960s, Tunisia remains ready to meet the United Nations calls, as well as those of the international community, to take part in peacekeeping operations throughout the world. Given the priority of the security of personnel serving in peacekeeping operations, in July Tunisia ratified the United Nations Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. The need to introduce reforms to the Security Council is dictated today by international developments that have taken place since the adoption of the Charter. In this context, increasing the number of permanent and non-permanent members of that body on the basis of equitable geographic distribution is an urgent demand. We would like to stress the need to reach a consensus that would make it possible to increase the number of permanent members. In this regard, I would like to recall that Tunisia supports the candidacy of Japan, Germany and other countries. An eventual solution should preserve the interests of all international parties and make it possible to satisfy the demands of developing countries and, above all, African countries, which are entitled to two permanent seats on the Security Council, to be distributed according to the rule of rotation. It is also necessary to improve the working methods of the Council in order to ensure that its work is marked by transparency and effectiveness. Since acceding to the Security Council as a non-permanent member, Tunisia has tried to ensure that its contribution to the work of that body is based on dialogue with the other members in order to bring viewpoints closer together and to reach results that would guarantee the success of all endeavours to safeguard peace and international security. Along the same lines, with respect to the role of the Security Council, we cannot overlook the question of humanitarian intervention, which has been the subject of widening debate in recent years and whose review calls for particular and sustained attention. We stress the need for an in-depth examination of all aspects of this matter. Indeed, if a particular humanitarian situation requires urgent intervention so that it does not deteriorate, such intervention cannot take place outside the framework of international law, the basic principles and norms of international relations and the provisions of the United Nations Charter. State sovereignty remains a fundamental tenet that can never be overlooked or ignored, because any violation of this 15 principle would alter the balance of international relations and risk the spread of anarchy. The question of sanctions is one of the most important issues that United Nations bodies, including the Security Council, have to face. The experience of the past decade has shown that the use of sanctions must be modified so as to alleviate their impact on peoples, while certain criteria, such as their use as a last resort after all other peaceful means have been exhausted, must be applied. In cases in which the imposition of sanctions is necessary, their duration should be limited. We should also define clear conditions for the lifting or suspension of sanctions and undertake an ongoing assessment of their humanitarian effects on the population of the target countries, as well as their direct impact on the interests of third countries. In this connection, with regard to Iraq, Tunisia has always reaffirmed the need to unite all our efforts in order to reach a peaceful settlement of the dispute that would make it possible to end the embargo, reintegrate Iraq into the community of nations, put an end to the tragic suffering of the Iraqi people resulting from the sanctions imposed over the past 10 years and help to direct the efforts of the countries of the region and their peoples towards the achievement of development and stability. All parties must cooperate in order to resolve the other humanitarian aspects of the problem, in particular the issue and fate of missing Kuwaiti nationals. With regard to the Lockerbie affair, the recent developments following the implementation of the agreement concluded on the matter and the suspension of the embargo imposed on Libya, it is time for sanctions to be lifted completely and definitively in order to allow the Jamahiriya to continue its overall development process and to support the Arab Maghreb Union (AMU) as it strives to achieve the integration and complementarity on which all of its member States place great importance. Tunisia has made the AMU a strategic choice. It is constantly working to promote the Union and to strengthen its foundations and structures. With the help of its partners in the Union, it has tried to give this regional organization new impetus so that it can respond to the historic aspirations of its peoples. With regard to the Middle East, we would like to express our regret that the negotiations at the Camp David summit meeting held in July stalled without an agreement that would guarantee a fair settlement of the Palestinian cause. Tunisia, which from the outset has supported the peace process on all tracks, is convinced that it is time to give concrete form to the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people to build an independent State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, in accordance with international law and the terms of reference of the peace process based on the principle of land for peace. Tunisia hopes that the American Administration will continue its good offices, and that other influential parties, such as the European Union, Russia and Japan, will step up their efforts to help the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Government reach an agreement that would make it possible to establish a just and lasting peace and guarantee the national rights of the Palestinian people in accordance with General Assembly and Security Council resolutions, in particular Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Achieving a just and lasting peace in the Middle East will also depend on progress on the Syrian track. Israel is called upon to withdraw from the Golan and to comply fully with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Israel is also called upon to respect the international borders of Lebanon and to refrain from violating the borders drawn by the United Nations. Our States are encouraged to try to identify ways and means to face the phenomenon of globalization, with its consequences and economic and social repercussions, and to adapt to it in order to ensure that its dividends are shared and to spare our peoples, especially peoples of the South, the negative fallout from it. The African continent is a region suffering most from development problems, despite major reforms undertaken by the countries of the continent in different areas. Despite the efforts made by certain African countries, Africa is still suffering from a severe lack of resources and assistance which prevents it from joining the global development process. In this context, one of the greatest challenges is to prevent the marginalization of the economies of developing countries and to ensure an international environment conducive to access to international markets and to an increased share of international trade. This will require the international community to provide the necessary impetus in the area of investment and financing if these 16 States are to develop, and to increase official development assistance, which has not only remained below 0.7 per cent of the gross national product of the countries of the North, but is actually decreasing, while the external debt crisis and debt servicing continue to burden developing countries. In this context, we recall the initiative of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, calling for the recycling of debts in development projects, which would make it possible to reduce the debt burden and help the countries concerned. I also take this opportunity to recall the appeal made by President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in 1995 for the creation of a partnership and development contract between the countries of the south and north shores of the Mediterranean. This appeal is an extension of President Ben Ali's initiative, launched in 1989 from this lofty rostrum, for a global contract of peace and progress between the countries of the North and South aimed at strengthening cooperation and creating new prospects for stability and progress in the world. Given the major progress achieved in the scientific and technological spheres in recent decades, the millennium on which we are embarking will undoubtedly be one of science, technology and communications, necessitating the sharing of the benefits of progress, including in the field of computers, which will create great prospects for the harmonious and balanced development of countries. In this context, I recall Tunisia's initiative to hold a world summit on the information society, and its proposal, in the framework of the International Telecommunication Union, to host such a summit in 2003. I renew my appeal to all Member States and to the parties and institutions interested in this field to support this initiative and contribute as much as possible to organizing the summit in Tunisia. Peace and security are part of a concept with complementary dimensions; it is no longer limited to the outbreak, management and resolution of conflicts, but, rather, encompasses everything that contributes to strengthening stability and offers opportunities for development and prosperity. Furthermore, exclusion and marginalization, in all their aspects, undoubtedly lead to extremism and open the way to tension and violence. We know today that the struggle against poverty has assumed considerable importance. Indeed, while many societies enjoy well-being and prosperity, large fringes of the world's population experience poverty and destitution, which are alien to moral values and human rights. Furthermore, abject poverty is one of the most dangerous sources of conflict and instability. The fight against this planetary scourge and the violence and internal and inter-State conflicts that it engenders is a universal duty and a moral obligation that all international parties must assume. In this context, I wish to reiterate the appeal launched by His Excellency President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali for the creation of a world solidarity fund, as an instrument to complement existing international mechanisms, without replacing them. This fund could be financed by donations and voluntary assistance from the international community, and its objective would be to finance field programmes to fight poverty directly and urgently. President Ben Ali has made this proposal based on the success of the experience of the National Solidarity Fund, 26.26, set up in Tunisia in 1992, which helped lower the rate of poverty in our country from 22 per cent to 6 per cent. This proposal has been favourably received by member countries of the region and France, as well as by 12 international and regional organizations, such as the Group of 77, the Non- Aligned Movement, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the South Summit and the General Assembly special session on social development. With the international community's awareness of the need to fight poverty, and given the wide support that the proposal to create a world solidarity fund enjoys, Tunisia would like to present, during the current session, a draft resolution in this regard, which it hopes will obtain all the support necessary from Member States. Tunisia has always attached great importance to democracy and good governance, because it is convinced that these values are an integral part of any rebirth and development. Since the change of 7 November 1987, we have introduced fundamental reforms to promote these values. Indeed, the principles of human rights, the culture of tolerance and respect for the right to difference are the bases of change in Tunisia, which has enriched the values of international solidarity and collective responsibility at all levels: political, economic and social. The existence of a national solidarity fund is the best reflection of the importance of this aspect in 17 national life. An individual's awareness of his responsibility towards the future of his homeland implies solidarity and cooperation with all components of society, making it possible to remedy the problems of exclusion and marginalization in society. Democracy, human rights, good governance and national solidarity are interlinked values that must take into account the characteristics and specific features of each society, since there is no standard model that can be applied to everyone everywhere. This vision, which has been enshrined at various international forums would, thanks to the positive results seen in different countries, including Tunisia, be likely to constitute one of the main concepts we have been called upon to adopt consensually and to implement in the new millennium. Indeed, the right of peoples to freedom and democracy is a concept that has become a daily practice in many countries and must be consolidated, taking into account the requirements of growth and progress that themselves constitute a fundamental condition for peace and stability. In this context, international partnership is a common denominator that must guide our action in the next millennium. Finally, allow me to express the hope that this session will mark the rebirth of solidarity among all components of the international community, within which the United Nations will play a leading role through its outreach and its ongoing harmonious actions. Our objective would be that our action should contain a human global dimension to establish a common strategy and conditions for security, stability, development and prosperity on the basis of the common interests of all peoples everywhere.  Allow me at the outset to congratulate Mr. Holkeri on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly and to assure him of the full cooperation of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the discharge of his important responsibilities. I wish also to register our appreciation for the efforts of his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Foreign Minister of Namibia. My thanks and gratitude also go to our Secretary-General for his tireless and constructive endeavours on behalf of the Organization. The world is currently undergoing the most radical changes ever experienced by mankind. In such a rapidly changing environment, the main challenge facing the United Nations is to keep pace with events and try to play a leading role in directing their course in a way more compatible with the interests of the overwhelming majority of the world's population. The recently concluded Millennium Summit provided a unique opportunity for global leaders to draw up a collective agenda for addressing this historic challenge. As the sole universal body, the United Nations is uniquely positioned to be the instrument of democratic global change. It can help to ensure that the process of change and transformation in the global system is participatory and fair. The focus of our attention at the global level over the past 55 years has been on the preservation of international peace, security and stability. Despite the tremendous economic and technological progress that has been achieved, justice 29 and universal participation in decision-making and in the benefits of peace and progress have attracted less global attention and fewer resources. As the Secretary-General points out in his millennium report, the benefits and costs of globalization have not been evenly distributed. While world trade has increased more than ten-fold since 1950, over half of the world population continues to live on less than $2 a day and three quarters of the world population earn less than 20 per cent of total global income. The common destiny of humanity in the age of globalization requires us to reject the illusion of building islands of affluence, prosperity and stability in a turbulent sea of war, poverty, disease, ignorance and insecurity. Globalization is an economic, social and cultural reality. It should not just be allowed to happen — it is a reality that we can and should collectively manage. One key task is to ensure that the benefits of globalization are more evenly distributed. The millennium report of the Secretary-General sets out a number of realistic and quantifiable targets. Necessary resources need to be committed and those who have been mostly on the receiving end of the benefits of globalization have an added responsibility. The United Nations machinery should direct and coordinate bilateral and multilateral efforts in this regard. Globalization has also further complicated the global menaces of terrorism, organized crime and drug trafficking, necessitating the adoption of common and rule-based strategies to fight and eradicate them. Terrorism afflicts the entire international community and must thus be combated in its entirety, regardless of who its victims or perpetrators may be. In a globalized world, nothing can justify harbouring or providing safe haven to terrorists or condoning their activities. No nation can fight terrorism unilaterally. We need universal, non-discriminatory and comprehensive mechanisms to fight terrorism wherever it occurs and to deprive terrorists of their means of recruitment, operation and funding. The role of the United Nations in this regard is indispensable. In this context, particular attention needs to be focused on cooperation in the field of transnational organized crime and drug trafficking, which, in addition to inflicting their own banes on humanity, increasingly provide income to terrorist organizations. We are prepared to participate actively in any endeavour to combat this scourge. The menace of drug abuse and trafficking continues to take a heavy social, economic and political toll. It particularly afflicts young people, who embody the future. Combating drug trafficking is a costly exercise and requires international political will and serious burden-sharing. The provision of meaningful financial resources and modern equipment by target countries can enable transit countries, such as ours, to combat the problem at a fraction of the cost. The Islamic Republic of Iran has done more than its fair share in preventing transit, seizing more than 70 per cent of all narcotics confiscated worldwide. The financial burden and, more importantly, the human sacrifice are unsustainable. More than 2,900 Iranian drug enforcement personnel have been martyred in the fight against drug traffickers. We appreciate the cooperation and support extended to Iran by the United Nations International Drug Control Programme in this regard, although its limited resources cannot cover the programmes it wants and needs to implement. It is important to stress that, in the absence of meaningful bilateral and multilateral assistance, the Islamic Republic of Iran will have to allocate most resources to combating domestic consumption and will not be able to sustain its fight against drug trafficking with the same vigour and energy. As underlined by President Khatami here last week, the emergence of a world culture is another reality. But such a culture should not overlook native local cultures with the aim of imposing itself upon them. National cultures have gradually evolved in a process ensuring coherence in spite of the plurality and diversity that is found in many of them. This process creates a sense of belonging. We need the same harmony and sense of belonging for the emerging world culture. The answer is participation and not assimilation and imposition. Last year, I proposed recognition of the right of nations and peoples to preserve and nourish their culture and cultural identity. The General Assembly adopted resolution 54/160 in this regard. We continue to believe that in the process of globalization, it is essential to recognize and respect cultural rights of individuals and communities. We should transform globalization, particularly in the area of culture, into a democratic, participatory and 30 natural process of globality. The United Nations can facilitate this process by promoting dialogue for the exchange of knowledge, experience and understanding in diverse areas of culture and civilization. The promotion of global participation in the process will prevent a sense of alienation and “cultural homelessness” in major parts of the world. The designation of the year 2001 as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations is the first step in this direction. The unprecedented worldwide reception of this proposal indicates first and foremost a general need for dialogue. The round table on dialogue among civilizations, which was held here in New York on the eve of the Millennium Summit with the participation of a significant number of heads of State, Foreign Ministers and prominent scholars and thinkers, underlined that dialogue should become the new paradigm of international relations. This constituted a proper launching of the United Nations Year of Dialogue. It must be augmented by serious programmes and the commitment of all to make this a meaningful reality which should persist in human experience long after the United Nations Year of Dialogue ends. In this context, the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), which is currently chaired by President Khatami, has recently adopted a draft “global agenda on dialogue among civilizations”, to be submitted to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. We hope that in the course of the next several months, consultations between various delegations will lead to further enrichment and the adoption of this draft at the next General Assembly. The United Nations can naturally play a leading role in the democratic global change in the political scene. Crises in disparate parts of the world challenge the relevance of the United Nations, requiring it not to take the back seat. The situation of Palestine represents a vivid illustration of the failure of the international community to provide justice to millions of people deprived of their homeland and the most fundamental human rights through State terrorism, aggression and foreign occupation. Of over 7.5 million Palestinians, 4 million live in diaspora, and many of the rest under foreign domination. This lies at the heart of the Palestinian question. Disregarding the joint processes of expulsion and occupation cannot lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity in that volatile region. In fact, Israel's persistent disregard for the rights of the Palestinian people, coupled with Zionist policies of aggression, State terrorism and acquisition of weapons of mass destruction, continue to pose the greatest threat to regional peace, security and stability. Palestine belongs to all Palestinians irrespective of their creed. Peace can return to the region only through an end to the occupation of all Arab and Muslim territories, including the Golan Heights, the restoration of the rights of Palestinian people, including their right to return to their homeland, the exercise of their inalienable right to self-determination through democratic means and the establishment of their independent State with Al-Quds al-Sharif as its capital. The persistence of the tragic fratricide in Afghanistan, along with the dire humanitarian situation, violations of human rights, particularly those of women and girls, the production and trafficking of narcotics and the harbouring and training of terrorists have created a human catastrophe. Peace and national reconciliation can be attained only through abandoning the illusion of a military solution and the domination of one ethnic group. The United Nations, through the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and the “six plus two” Group, continues to provide the most suitable mechanism to facilitate intra-Afghan dialogue aimed at a responsible, broad-based, multi- ethnic and fully representative government. The Islamic Republic of Iran has played an active role in this process. Also, in his capacity as Chairman of the OIC, President Khatami has undertaken an initiative to bring the warring factions to negotiations. We are prepared to continue this exercise in close coordination with the United Nations. There are other humanitarian challenges emerging globally, requiring the United Nations to respond. Failure to act may bring about arbitrary and selective — and, naturally, politically motivated — responses from States and non-universal organizations. The articulation of the criteria for rule-based reaction and the allocation of necessary resources and capacity- building in the United Nations for timely response constitute two major tasks ahead. As the Secretary- General has pointed out, prevention through diplomacy and economic development is the most effective and least costly type of global engagement. Good-governance at the international level requires the provision of rational and comprehensive mechanisms to ensure security for all. Nuclear disarmament is the most fundamental priority in this 31 regard. It is imperative to initiate multilateral negotiations for the elimination of all nuclear weapons, within a time-bound framework and through a comprehensive and universal convention. The proposal of the Secretary-General to convene an international conference on nuclear weapons is a valuable contribution; such a conference could build upon our collective achievement during the Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Review Conference. Furthermore, following the outcome of the NPT Review Conference, serious and comprehensive international pressure should come to bear on Israel to accede to the Treaty and to put its installations under International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards. This would pave the way for the establishment of a zone free from weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. Finally, in reforming global governance, the role and efficiency of the General Assembly, as the sole democratic, universal and transparent organ of the United Nations, must be augmented. It should focus its deliberations on contemporary challenges rather than hold outdated debates, coupled with effective responses to the reports of other organs of the United Nations, particularly the Security Council. Efforts to work out a special political role for the United Nations come at a time when the Organization is in one of the worst periods of its existence from a financial perspective. The tasks that the international community expects the United Nations to fulfil require more innovative ways of raising money for the smooth functioning of the Organization. In this context, it may be instructive to remember that if only a tiny percentage of the military expenditures of the Member States were allocated to the specific activities of the United Nations, the goal of creating a more secure global environment would be much more efficiently achieved. The current session of the General Assembly follows the Millennium Summit, the Inter- Parliamentary Union summit, the global gathering of religious leaders and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization roundtable on dialogue among civilizations. As such, it represents a tremendous and historic opportunity to take advantage of the political will expressed in those unprecedented gatherings, to operationalize their declarations and decisions, and to move the United Nations forward to an era of stability, justice, peace and good governance, through participation and the rule of law. Commensurate with such a historic opportunity, we are all accountable before our own people and the people of the world.It is my great pleasure to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session and to wish you every success in your task. May I also assure you of my delegation's cooperation in achieving the objectives we all desire. It is also my pleasure to thank your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his efforts in conducting the proceedings of the fifty-fourth session, as well as the proceedings of the special sessions held during the same period. I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to express my deep appreciation for the valuable and constant efforts that Secretary-General Kofi Annan has made to enable the Organization to deliver its message and to enhance its role in the maintenance of peace and security throughout the world. May I also extend my delegation's congratulations to the Government and people of Tuvalu on the occasion of its admission to membership in the United Nations. Its admission is a further demonstration of the universality of the Organization. The fifty-fifth session is remarkable because it also encompasses the work of the Millennium Summit, which was attended by a large number of leaders of Member States. The very presence of those leaders, and the discussions and meetings they held, served to underscore the importance they attach to the role and responsibilities of the United Nations in the new century. They also identified the changes and challenges that will require joint international cooperation on the basis of the lofty and noble principles and purposes enshrined in the Organization's Charter. More than half a century after its establishment, the world Organization must deal effectively with political, economic, social and cultural changes and take advantage of their positive impact. This is particularly the case with regard to the ongoing and accelerating revolution in the fields of communications, modern technology and economic globalization. In this regard, it is my pleasure to commend the Secretary-General's report to the Millennium Summit, entitled, “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. That report has shed light on the global issues of the years to come and includes the positive aspects, misgivings and apprehensions associated with those issues. The State of Bahrain welcomes the United Nations Millennium Declaration and the reaffirmation by Member States of their faith in the Charter's principles and the need to strengthen the role of the Organization. We are confident that if we are successful in giving effect to those principles, the 2 Organization will be able to fulfil its political, economic, social and human responsibilities. Foremost among those responsibilities are the preservation of international peace and security and combating disease, poverty, ignorance, drugs, violence, terrorism and crime. Those responsibilities also include preservation of the environment and natural resources. While the cold war era threatened the world with the dangers and risks of war, the ultimate challenges the world must face in the future include border disputes, racial and ethnic conflict, globalization of the international economy, development issues, and other political, social and environmental challenges, as well as issues related to weapons of mass destruction and terrorism. The State of Bahrain — whose full integration and close association with the international community was emphasized in the address to the Millennium Summit by His Highness Shaikh Hamad Bin Isa Al-Khalifa — is determined to continue to shoulder its national, regional and international responsibilities with a view to meeting the requirements of the new century. Given its ancient civilization and the fact that it is fully committed to the obligations associated with membership in the United Nations and the international community, Bahrain will deal positively and within the framework of regional and international cooperation with the changes dictated by the new era in such a manner as to ensure justice, security, peace and prosperity for all. Since it attained political independence and began to exercise full sovereignty over all its islands, territories and territorial waters, in 1971, under the late Emir, His Highness Shaikh Isa Bin Salman Al-Khalifa, the State of Bahrain has constantly sought to build a modern State and a developed civil society by preparing and training its people to deal with the requirements of the modern age and to take a positive role in the changes taking place currently and in the future. Today, in its new era, the State of Bahrain continues its strenuous efforts at modernization and progress through domestic openness and by taking progressive and measured steps in various fields. Those steps include guaranteeing freedoms and ensuring the rule of law and women's participation in all aspects of national life, notably through membership in the Consultative Council. In the field of human rights, Bahrain continues to take considerable steps by signing a number of international conventions in recognition of the importance of those rights. Those conventions have made the resulting legal rights and obligations absolutely clear, while at the same time they firmly oppose the use of human rights as a pretext for interfering in internal affairs or for undermining religious beliefs, human values and cultural and social characteristics of States. Despite its continuous efforts and the admirable standing it has achieved in the field of human development, the State of Bahrain, like other developing island States, faces a number of challenges stemming from its limited size, high population density and limited natural resources. As a result, Bahrain has undertaken ambitious development projects with a view to diversifying the sources of its national income. Those projects include an open economic policy that has made Bahrain an advanced regional and global commercial and financial centre. In the area of foreign relations and the fulfilment of national and international obligations, the State of Bahrain's contributions to the maintenance of international peace and security are evidenced by the close relations it maintains with brotherly and friendly States on the basis of cooperation, mutual interests, mutual respect and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. Driven by its firm belief in the importance of regional and international security, the maintenance of which is a joint responsibility, and in the light of the serious and dangerous events witnessed by the Gulf region over the last 20 years the effects and ramifications of which continue to pose a threat to the security and stability of the area, the State of Bahrain will continue to call for adherence by all States to the principles that contribute to the maintenance of security and peace and the prevalence of stability, progress and prosperity. Among the most important of those principles are respect for the status quo and the sanctity of existing borders; establishment of relations among States on the basis of the principles of good neighbourliness, mutual respect and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States; recognition of the national sovereignty of each State; and settlement of disputes through peaceful means and in accordance with the principles of international law accepted by the parties to the dispute. 3 On this basis, and given its commitment to the maintenance of international peace and security, especially in the strategically important Gulf region, in which many States have vital interests, the State of Bahrain reaffirms its principled and consistent positions on current regional and international issues. Accordingly, it renews its invitation to Iraq to cooperate with the United Nations; to fully implement relevant Security Council resolutions, particularly those relating to weapons of mass destruction; and to release prisoners and detainees of Kuwaiti and other nationalities, as a means leading to the lifting of sanctions and to an end to the suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people. Meanwhile, it declares anew its call for the preservation of Iraq's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and its objection to any interference in Iraq's internal affairs. With its deep interest and concern for a continued spirit of cooperation and good-neighbourly relations among the Gulf States, the State of Bahrain hopes that the positive developments in relations between the States of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and the Islamic Republic of Iran will lead to a peaceful resolution of the dispute over the three islands — Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb — which all belong to the United Arab Emirates. It also reaffirms its support for all efforts to that end and hopes that the work of the tripartite ministerial committee established by the Gulf Cooperation Council will succeed in finding a solution aimed at ensuring the preservation of the region's security and stability, in an atmosphere of amicable and natural relations among all its States and peoples. The Middle East peace process has witnessed, and continues to witness, developments, both politically and on the ground, as evidenced by the contacts and negotiations between the Palestinian Authority and Israel, including, most importantly, the Camp David summit, held recently under the auspices of the United States of America, with a view to reaching a final agreement between the two parties. Further, the contacts that have taken place in Washington in search of a possible resumption of negotiations on the Syrian-Israeli track are among the most significant developments in the peace process this year, despite the failure of such efforts owing to Israel's refusal to withdraw completely from the Syrian Arab Golan to the borders of 4 June 1967. Insofar as the situation on the ground is concerned, the withdrawal from southern Lebanon, which Israel was forced to carry out as a result of the steadfast opposition and heroic resistance put up by the brotherly Lebanese people against the occupation, constitutes a significant turning point in the peace process and demonstrates that occupation can in no way ensure security. The developments through which the peace process has gone on all tracks and in all stages have shown that the success of the process and the achievement of the desired just, comprehensive and durable peace are contingent upon the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and of all relevant resolutions of international legality, which call for the withdrawal of Israel from all Arab territories occupied since 1967 and acknowledge the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, including the right to establish their own independent state, with Jerusalem as its capital. In accepting peace, with all the steps it entails, as a strategic option, the Arab side had hoped that Israel would implement all these resolutions and fulfil the terms of all agreements and commitments, as well as abide by the principles of the 1991 Madrid Conference, notably the principle of land for peace. We believe that a fully comprehensive solution is a fundamental prerequisite for the achievement of a just, durable and comprehensive peace in a region whose peoples have been beset by conflicts and instability, which have drained their resources and abilities in the context of a heated and futile arms race that has deprived all parties of security. In order to save the peace process from total collapse and failure, we call upon the co-sponsors of the peace process and the international community to redouble their efforts and pressure Israel into meeting the requirements of peace by fully implementing all resolutions of international legality. Despite the easing of global tensions with respect to certain regional and international issues, there are still issues in a number of different regions that give rise to concern on the part of the international community and that threaten security and stability, both within those regions and beyond. It is unfortunate that internal strife persists in Afghanistan and the Democratic Republic of Congo, as well as in other areas. We therefore call once again for 4 the intensification of efforts to find solutions to such conflicts and to encourage the parties to direct their efforts and capacities towards the settlement of their disputes and the development of their countries and societies. We are pleased, in this connection, to welcome the recent positive developments in Somalia, which have led to the election of a President in that country. We appreciate all the efforts that have been exerted towards that outcome, which, we hope, will bring about security and stability for Somalia and for its brotherly people. Furthermore, it is our pleasure to express our satisfaction at the agreement reached in Algeria this year between two neighbours, Ethiopia and Eritrea, and our appreciation for the efforts exerted in this direction by the Organization of African Unity and the constructive role played by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of the brotherly People's Democratic Republic of Algeria. It is perhaps true to say that the globalization of the economy and the stunning developments in the fields of information, communications and scientific innovation — which have torn down the barriers to the flow of international trade, facilitated the transfer of capital across borders, made interaction among various cultures inevitable and made every State in the world a neighbour to all other States — have both pros and cons and therefore constitute a great challenge for the future. The misgivings with regard to globalization have been amply discussed and identified. Foremost among these is the fear that it will weaken States' national authority and their ability to act freely in determining the levels of their own economic and social development, which would have a serious effect on the living standard of the peoples of those States. The situation therefore requires a reform of the international economic order so as to enable it to deal with the financial, economic and social ramifications and consequent difficulties of globalization, whose primary victims are likely to be developing and poor societies. The process of economic globalization and development has given rise to many challenges for the world economy and the international community. The positive aspects of globalization, as perceived by some, such as the smooth transfer of products, goods and services across borders and the immense advances in information technology, should be coupled with a balance between global and national economic policies. Despite the benefits of globalization in the fields of information technology, electronic commerce, education, health, social development, access to markets and consumer benefits through the ability to compete, there is fear that globalization's adverse aspects might affect numerous segments of developing societies that might not have the ability to benefit from the opportunities provided by globalization, given their inability to compete — thereby increasing poverty and the marginalization of vast sectors of the population. It is in the interest of the international community that the progress accompanying globalization be utilized to achieve economic growth and integration, to assist in the eradication of poverty and to achieve social equality and development by way of directing the process of globalization in a humane manner in order to mitigate its adverse effects. We must deal with this phenomenon in a manner conducive to the establishment of a world where a balance of interests is struck and where equality, mutual interest and an honourable way of life are available to all, without exception. It is our pleasure to express, in this context, our support for the decisions and recommendations of the South Summit held in Havana and the Summit of the Group of 15 held in Cairo in June 2000, and the contents of the final document of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly, held in Geneva last June, to follow up the implementation of the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development in respect of the human dimension of development. Among the challenges that mankind and our international Organization must address in the new century is the conservation of the environment and the mitigation of the adverse effects of economic, industrial and technological developments in the world. Such a task undoubtedly requires a global effort to be made within the framework of the continuing implementation of the world programme for the protection of the environment set out in Agenda 21, which was adopted at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, by linking the interests of the developed countries with those of developing countries, while using all means and machinery available to fight pollution for the sake of 5 safeguarding our children and grandchildren from the dangers of a planet spoiled by human activity. Another challenge is the military one posed by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear capabilities and their means of transfer, which have increased in many regions of the world in the past few years. Given the threat to the world's future, security and safety that such weapons pose, it is a welcome sign for mankind as a whole that the States Members of the United Nations have welcomed the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, held in New York in April and May 2000, and that the nuclear Powers have agreed on the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Aware of the dangers of the proliferation of nuclear weapons, especially in the light of the wars and conflicts that our region has witnessed in recent decades, we in the Middle East, including the Gulf region, have supported all initiatives aimed at freeing the region from all weapons of mass destruction, in particular nuclear weapons. The gravity of the phenomenon of terrorism — which has intensified in recent years, challenging the will of the international community and posing a threat to the security and stability of States and peoples — is of concern to us all. In reaffirming our condemnation of terrorism, regardless of its form, cause or origin, we call for further measures to combat it, to punish its perpetrators and to prevent them from practising their activities by denying them shelter. It is incumbent upon us to reaffirm and reactivate the role of the United Nations in order to meet and eliminate these challenges in the framework of the collective partnership provided for in the Charter, one of the most important objectives of which is to replace war and confrontation with dialogue and cooperation. We are convinced, however, that the momentum generated by the Millennium Summit and by the emphasis in its Declaration on support for the role of the United Nations in promoting harmony in international relations and maintaining world peace and security can be exploited only through the implementation of the essential reforms of the Organization's organs and bodies, especially the Security Council, by adhering to the principle of equitable geographic representation and transparency, which are among the most important elements that enhance its role in the maintenance of international peace and security. The advent of the third millennium, with all the hopes it inspires, requires us all to consider and evaluate the action we should take to correct the concepts and adjust the machinery through which we hope to achieve peace, security, prosperity and well- being for all in a framework of close international solidarity on the basis of the oneness of the human race and its mutual interests. The unique characteristics of the cultures, civilizations, religious beliefs and social traditions of various societies and peoples should be used to promote understanding, rapprochement and interaction among all States and peoples in a world of tranquillity, justice, security and peace. The millennium to which we look forward is one in which we hope relations among peoples will be enhanced and dialogue and cooperation will replace war and conflict, which bring nothing but devastation and destruction.  Allow me to begin my remarks by congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I wish you much success in guiding the Assembly to a fruitful outcome and I pledge to you the full support of the Liechtenstein delegation. I would also like to congratulate the newest Member, Tuvalu, on its admission to the United Nations and in particular, to welcome Tuvalu into the group of small countries. 24 I have had the honour of participating in the general debate before, but this year is very special. It marks the tenth anniversary of Liechtenstein's membership in the United Nations. I would therefore like to include in my remarks some of the issues to which Liechtenstein attaches particular importance in its United Nations engagement. For Liechtenstein, as for many other countries, the United Nations stands for the protection of human rights and human dignity and for the promotion of common values. The United Nations has been particularly challenged during the last 12 months in playing its rightful role in the pursuit of peace and security. Although remarkable efforts have been made, some conflict situations still do not allow for effective peacekeeping to take place. When the Secretary- General called last year for a culture of prevention, my delegation fully supported his ideas and we still believe that the prevention of conflicts must be the key concept in the maintenance of peace. We all know that preventing conflicts can save hundreds of thousands of lives. Political energy and enormous financial resources can be used for other purposes. The term `culture of prevention' entails a comprehensive approach to different kinds of problems. However, preventive approaches can be perceived as a threat to the sovereignty of a State. The classic notion of the term obviously no longer enables us to cope with the changed realities of the world. The sovereignty of States remains a cornerstone of the United Nations. Creating a culture of prevention is therefore a process that requires a concerted effort by the United Nations membership as a whole. Addressing the root causes of so many of today's internal conflicts will constitute a further step in meeting this humanitarian, political and economic necessity. Liechtenstein has for several years promoted ideas and suggestions on a preventive approach with regard to problems arising from the application of the right of self-determination. It is time to free ourselves of biased and obsolete thinking and to recognize that the effective application and exercise of the right of self-determination is the basis for preventing internal conflicts and the violent disintegration of States. The adoption of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) in 1998 was an historic step. The conclusion of the work on the elements of crimes and the rules of procedure by the Preparatory Commission this summer was a further step forward, and the ratification process is promising. We hope to be able to contribute to the entry into force of the Statute soon. It is of crucial importance that the integrity of the Rome Statute be maintained throughout the remaining work to be done by the Preparatory Commission. The qualities of the ICC have often been praised. The ICC's potential for prevention is certainly one of its outstanding characteristics. An effective criminal court will make an important contribution to terminating the practice of impunity which has prevailed for so long without being seriously challenged. Liechtenstein has always supported enhanced United Nations cooperation with regional organizations, inter alia, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) as well as the Council of Europe, in particular in the areas of human rights, conflict prevention and post-conflict rehabilitation. The promotion and protection of human rights can also contribute to the prevention of conflicts. This is more than a legitimate concern for all of us it is our duty. Ever since Liechtenstein became a Member of the United Nations 10 years ago, this issue has been a top priority. In recent years, human rights have become more important in foreign policy and in the world economy. There is increased awareness that human rights issues cannot be considered in an isolated manner, since there is a clear connection between human rights and economic prosperity, social welfare, and peace and security. The full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms by women must be the basis for full equality in a stable society and we must continue to take further action in order to achieve the full advancement and empowerment of women. Together with 12 women Foreign Ministers, I last night signed a letter addressed to the Secretary-General in which we noted the special needs of women in HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment, and called upon the United Nations membership to take into account the need for an enhanced availability of education, testing, counselling, care and treatment designed to address the specific needs of women and girls. Liechtenstein fully supports the fight against transnational organized crime, in particular trafficking in persons, and offences against children as well as the fight against money laundering. Financial crime is 25 increasingly a key concern in today's open and global financial world, which is characterized by the high mobility of funds and the rapid development of new payment tools. In our view, international cooperation in the global fight against money laundering can only be enhanced if all international financial services centres work towards full implementation of internationally agreed standards, and my Government therefore fully supports the objectives of the United Nations Global Programme against Money Laundering (GPML) Forum. The approach must, however, be transparent, inclusive and non-discriminatory, and the positive action already taken or being taken by individual countries must be properly recognized. Any punitive approach, including the establishment of lists and the imposition of sanctions on individual jurisdictions, as well as the failure to distinguish between the fight against money laundering and tax issues, runs counter to the spirit of international cooperation. We therefore regret, in particular, recent proceedings by some international and regional bodies directed against certain financial centres, including Liechtenstein. The lack of transparency and the manner in which this was done are not in conformity with the established principles and procedures of international cooperation. These established principles and procedures must guide the cooperation between States and the resolution of difficulties they may have. International cooperation must be handled in the same way when large States are dealing with small States and when small States are dealing with large States. No organization should be allowed to depart from established practice in international relations. Cooperation by small States must never be interpreted as capitulation; cooperation implies consideration of the rights and interests of all.At the outset, I would like, on behalf of the delegation of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, to congratulate you, Sir, on your well- deserved election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that our Assembly stands to gain a great deal from your able leadership and from your wide knowledge of international affairs. Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate the outgoing President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for the guidance he provided to the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. The twentieth century has been an epoch of great technological and scientific discoveries and achievements. This is indeed one of the positive things about the past century that we all can be proud of. However, this same past century has brought enormous calamities and left manifold complex problems as we enter the twenty-first century. Certainly, we have to accept the responsibility for resolving them and in order to succeed in addressing this daunting task, we must lay down sound basic foundations aimed at encouraging and building peace and international cooperation for development. This is the lofty goal of our new age that we should all strive to achieve. In preparation for the new millennium, a number of international conferences were held on different issues under the auspices of the United Nations, such as the World Summit for Children in New York, the Earth Summit in Rio, the World Social Summit in Copenhagen, the World Conference on Women in Beijing, UNCTAD X in Bangkok and other international conferences of equal importance. The main objectives of those assemblies were to solve the multifaceted problems that have occurred in the world, with the hope that the new millennium will face minimal risk in every area and that humankind will concentrate its intelligence and resources on developing the economy, civilized culture and prosperity in equality, in a just and peaceful environment free from violent confrontation, with concern for poverty, disease and others. However, the objectives set forth by these conferences have not lived up to our expectations. In addition, new challenges that are far more complex have erupted in the light of globalization. The South Summit of the Group of 77 and China, which was held in Havana in April this year, rightly identified the positive and negative sides of globalization and put forward a collective guideline for future action. The conference was of the view that the unsolved problems are the well-known issues of the growing debt, the unfavourable world trade measures imposed on goods from the developing countries in particular, the least developed ones as well as human resources that have not yet been developed to cope with new technologies and others. Overall, all these issues need to be seriously dealt with together between the North and the South, so as to meet the challenges and make use of favourable opportunities that will lead to a North-South cooperation based on equality and mutual interest, as explicitly expressed in the Havana Declaration. The achievements of humankind in the past century are of immense value. We believe that, if these achievements are correctly used, happiness and prosperity will be brought to the new generation of the next century. Nonetheless, we are still yet concerned over the challenges that the new generation has to face. Today many young girls and boys worldwide have not enjoyed happy lives and lacked opportunity for education. Moreover, they are subject to exploitation 6 for the purpose of pornography, prostitution and drug addiction, that destroy their own future, their families, the society and, subsequently, becomes the source of international terrorism. Similarly, the gender issue is also of great importance. Although equality between women and men is respected and women's participation in social life has increased, poverty and violence continue to be the major obstacles that affect women's life. To successfully tackle this problem, countries around the world should help each other and devote the necessary resources to this domain. Drug abuse continues to be a subject of major concern for the international community. In the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Lao Government has implemented, with the cooperation and assistance of friendly countries and international organizations in particular the United Nations International Drug Control Programme a number of projects with a view to remedying the effects of drug abuse. Experience has shown that people involved in poppy cultivation continue to remain poor. Therefore, in order to definitely solve this problem, it is imperative to carry out alternative development projects, ensure food security, enable people to earn more by cultivating crops other than poppies, as well as traditional cultivation. The Lao Government is determined to continue its efforts in drug control and supervision. It is our hope that the international community will lend a strong helping hand in order to help us to overcome our difficulties as soon as possible for the bright future of our children. While the world is entering the new millennium, a number of regional conflicts have been satisfactorily settled, thus responding to the aspirations of the affected nations. However, at the same time, many other regional conflicts remain unsolved and continue to cause pain and suffering to the people directly involved. In the Middle East, durable peace has not been ensured: the inalienable national and fundamental rights of the Palestinian people have not yet been exercised. We welcome the resumption of peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. The two parties should seize this opportunity to write a new page of history based on peaceful coexistence and economic cooperation among the peoples in the region. In this perspective, we look forward to seeing the establishment of an independent Palestinian State and of respect for an existence of all States in the region, thus ensuring durable peace and cooperation between the nations, in particular between the Arab States and Israel. The economic, commercial and financial embargo applied against the Republic of Cuba continues to cause enormous difficulties and damage to the Cuban people. In compliance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, we urge that an end be put to this restrictive commercial practice, which runs counter to the principles of the Charter, international law and the present world trend. The Lao People's Democratic Republic is following closely the situation in the Korean peninsula. We welcome the outcome of the Korean Summit between Chairman Kim Jong 11 of the National Defense Commission of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and President Kim Dae Jung of the Republic of Korea, who met in Pyongyang last June and laid down an important foundation in response to the aspirations of the Korean people for the peaceful reunification of Korea and the settlement of the problems in the Korean peninsula through peaceful negotiations, which contributed thereby to the promotion of peace, stability and cooperation in the region. On 2 December 2000, the Lao People's Democratic Republic will commemorate its twenty- fifth anniversary. Over this period, the Lao people have upheld the spirit of patriotism, self-sufficiency, and strength and have attracted assistance and cooperation from the international community. They have made tremendous accomplishments in national construction. As a result, their living standard has gradually improved. The most outstanding achievement, attained for the first time in the country's history, is that we have reached self-sufficiency in rice production and even have a surplus for export. The socio-economic infrastructure has been continuously expanded, the State is governed by the rule of law and freedom and democracy are respected and constantly promoted. The solidarity of the Lao people of all ethnic groups has been further strengthened. These are all fundamental factors in ensuring political stability and social order. Thanks to the policy of renewal consistent with the mechanisms of the market economy, the development of the people's right to self-determination and an open- door policy in our international relations, we are 7 convinced that the Lao People's Democratic Republic will be able to emerge from underdevelopment in the near future. Globalization has had an uneven impact on the development of every country, because each nation is at a different stage in the development process. While some developing economies are making use of the increasing economic opportunities, a large number of developing countries continue to be marginalized and are therefore not in a position to benefit from this process. Most countries in the developing world continue to face problems of access to markets, capital and technology. Many are obliged to undertake painful structural reforms that are not compatible with their realities and have an undesirable negative impact that impedes their integration into the world economy. Against this backdrop, there is a need to build a favourable environment that would enable the developing countries to compete in the world trading system and to fully benefit from globalization. The United Nations has a crucial role to play in helping to make this happen. As we bid farewell to the twentieth century, humanity is still yearning for a world of peace, a world free from want and misery, a world governed by international relations based on respect for the national sovereignty of States, cooperation for development and peaceful coexistence between peoples. The international community is therefore duty-bound to increase its cooperation in all possible areas so as to ensure that the objectives of the United Nations Summit Declaration are achieved and to bring benefits to peoples throughout the world, as well as guarantees to new generations of a better life and a more prosperous future. In this spirit, I wish the present session great success.  Allow me to begin, Sir, by congratulating you on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I wish you all the best in carrying out your duties. I would also like to welcome the Republic of Tuvalu to the United Nations. Last week my Prime Minister, Mart Laar, spoke to the Millennium Summit on a number of issues Estonia sees as being especially salient to the United Nations this year. In my brief remarks today, I would like to underline four in particular: first, the need to reform the Security Council; secondly, efforts to raise the effectiveness of peacekeeping; thirdly, the importance of narrowing the global gap between rich and poor; and, fourthly, the role of information technology in furthering development. The first concerns efforts to reform the Security Council. The strong executive power vested in the Council was originally designed for the Council to provide a venue for speedy decisions and subsequent action. In practice, however, the Council is increasingly prone to indecisive waffling, which in turn undermines its own authority and credibility, and thus its effectiveness. In order to combat that effect, Estonia believes that the voting procedures and mechanisms governing the work of the United Nations most powerful body must be revamped. One such procedure that deserves our attention is the veto. Some permanent members of the Security Council have used the veto, or have threatened to do so, in order to advance their own domestic and foreign policy interests, irrelevant to the particular issue at hand. Because the Security Council derives its legitimacy from all Member States, it is the duty of the permanent members to exercise their veto power responsibly. The composition of the Council, which still reflects the power relationships current in 1945, is another issue that calls out for resolution. From the inception of the United Nations that year until just a decade ago the people of my country were afforded only rare glimpses of the goings-on at the United Nations through tears in the fabric of the Iron Curtain. When we finally re-established our independence, in 1991, we emerged onto the international arena only to 27 discover that the Security Council, judging by its composition, was still stuck back in 1945. This strikes Estonia as being anachronistic, if not wrongheaded. The guarantors of, and greatest contributors to, stability in the world have in the course of half a century changed fundamentally. We need not fear opening a discussion on whether the moral and legal reasoning underlying Security Council membership in the wake of the Second World War is still appropriate for the twenty-first century. If countries have fundamentally changed, so should, and so can, the United Nations. My second point regards peacekeeping. Earlier this year my Government decided to forgo the discount rate that meant paying only 20 per cent of our peacekeeping assessment. Instead, we voluntarily and unilaterally opted to shoulder 100 per cent of what is expected of us. This is because Estonia regards peacekeeping as being among the United Nations most crucial assignments in fulfilling its historical mandate of collective security. Security cannot be had at discount prices. That is why Estonia is willing to pay more for what we hope will be a better product. Paying our own way is not enough to raise the effectiveness of peacekeeping, however. What we require, as Prime Minister Tony Blair said here last week, is a far broader concept of security. The Security Council took an important step last week towards ensuring the security of people and frontiers with its unanimous resolution to overhaul United Nations peacekeeping operations. Those changes should create a more potent and better financed force that can react quickly where needed. My third point focuses on the need to increase equality around the globe. In his millennium report, the Secretary-General called on all of us to focus on the eradication of poverty. We can go a long way towards levelling the playing field for all peoples by alleviating debt and allocating more resources for development assistance. It is not as simple as that, however. As my Prime Minister, Mart Laar, said here last week, these efforts must go hand in hand with good governance and open markets. Without a commitment to these two elements, no amount of aid or debt relief will bring us closer to our intended goal. The idea that open governments and open markets are a prerequisite for good economic performance leads me to my fourth and final point, namely, the role of information and communications technology in furthering development. In his millennium report, the Secretary-General rightly stressed the need to ensure that the fruits of new technologies, especially information technology, are available to all. I personally took part in the High-level Panel of Experts on Information and Communication Technology, held here at the United Nations last April, because we have some experience in these matters. Estonia has the honour of finding itself among the 20 most computerized nations in the world. More importantly, we have done this not as a rich country, but as a nation with rather modest means. Among the Panel's most important findings was the undisputed, if not terribly original, conclusion that information technology programmes are, in fact, beneficial for development. Computer technology can be a wedge, or it can be a bridge. It need not follow that poor nations fall ever behind. Policies can be implemented, as we have discovered, that turn the “digital divide” into a “digital dividend”. We have seen this in my country firsthand through our Tiger Leap programme whereby every school in Estonia has, for some time now, been connected to the Internet. Even more clearly, we have witnessed how access to information technology has brought new possibilities to rural areas, the areas which often bear the brunt of change. This is why Estonia wholeheartedly endorses, and will actively participate in, the United Nations plans to assist all Members in making the information technology dream a reality.It gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this General Assembly session. We are confident that the posts you have assumed in your country and the international respect that you enjoy will facilitate the task entrusted to you in leading the deliberations of this session of the General Assembly to their desired objectives. I would also like to express our appreciation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia for his efforts in leading the work of the previous session to a successful conclusion. I would be remiss if I failed to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his efforts to maintain the principles and purposes of the Charter and for the distinguished role he has played in crystallizing the idea of convening the Millennium Summit last week. It was indeed an unusual event in United Nations history. The historic Millennium Summit Declaration confirmed unequivocally and clearly the commitment of all the Heads of State and Government of the world to the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. We believe that the absence of any substantial difference between the Charter and the Declaration is an important achievement in itself. The historic Declaration issued by the Millennium Summit may be considered, in one way or another, as a renewed vote of confidence in the Charter, particularly, as the world has recently witnessed major changes and dangerous challenges. One may therefore conclude that the principles and purposes adopted by peoples and nations do not undergo major changes with the passage of time. It would be wrong to underestimate the significance of this conclusion for the history of the United Nations. The end of the cold war did not prevent the peoples and nations of the world from denouncing and condemning crimes of aggression, ethnic-cleansing, foreign occupation, oppression, extremism, injustice, corruption, racism and double standards. Nor did this make us hesitate to glorify many noble objectives, such as freedom, peace, equality, solidarity, tolerance, human rights and social justice. It is fortunate that third world countries and poor countries host large populations with bountiful resources and great heritage. This constitutes a safety net for those countries that were able to contribute to maintaining the principles and purposes of the United Nations when drafting the Millennium Declaration. This explains the lack of any reference to the new world order, either in the Millennium Summit Declaration or in any other official text. Regrettably, however, this becomes evident in reality, whereby hegemony seems to have the upper hand in the international arena. Strengthening the role of the United Nations was the main topic on the Summit's agenda. This role would also become clear in reforming the Security 18 Council and expanding its membership. The United Nations membership considers the Council the Organization's primary organ. This reform process should be accomplished by expanding the Security Council membership, the granting of equitable and fair geographical representation and the gradual phasing out of the use of the right of veto, which contradicts the concept of democracy, particularly when its aim is nothing short of undermining the democratic process. United Nations peacekeeping operations have contributed to creating conditions conducive to ending the deterioration of security conditions in many countries of the world. Throughout the past years, the Syrian Arab Republic has done everything it could to preserve the security and safety of United Nations peacekeeping personnel and to ensure that they successfully carry out their missions and mandates. But peacekeeping operations must be confined to enforcing United Nations resolutions and those of international legitimacy. The Security Council has therefore to enforce its resolutions so that peacekeeping operations will not simply become operations to impose the status quo, which makes the achievement of true peace a very elusive objective. The peace process launched in Madrid has been losing its momentum, incentive and compass, day after day and year after year. The Security Council, which has the authority and international legitimacy to enforce its own resolutions, has been kept out of the Middle East peace process. It has become a silent witness to the fact that the peace process in the Middle East has reached a dead end. It has become quite obvious to all those involved in the peace process, both inside and outside our region, that continued Israeli occupation of Arab territories which is sometimes explained by Israel's psychological need for security and at other times by superstitious myths is the major obstacle on the road to peace. Those futile claims, which have no foundation in reality whatsoever, have caused the peace process to become an endless negotiating process with neither end nor resolution in sight. At any rate, the serious and carefully considered negotiations that Syria has conducted have proven to the international community at large, and to Arabs in particular, two main things: first, that Israel is neither desirous of, nor serious about, pursuing a just and comprehensive peace in accordance with United Nations resolutions; and, secondly, that Syria has the right to a full return of the entire Golan, to the 4 June 1967 line, without concessions or compromises. We would like to mention another fact known to our foes and friends alike. That fact is that Syria has unreservedly supported every Arab and Palestinian right during every stage of the peace talks. It did not take those positions to embarrass anyone or to negotiate on their behalf. As a matter of principle, Syria has been, and continues to be, committed to the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to return to their lands, to self-determination, and to establish their independent State on their national soil. On that basis, Syria presented its position clearly and firmly at the meeting of the Jerusalem Committee that was convened in Morocco at the end of last month in support of the rights of Muslims and Arabs to full and uncompromised Palestinian sovereignty over Al-Quds Al-Sharif. The Arabs are an ancient and time-honoured nation known for its religious tolerance. But tolerance is one thing and conceding one's rights is something else. Territory and sovereignty are matters of national dignity that can never be forfeited or compromised. At the Millennium Summit, the countries of the world expressed their belief that we live today in an age of international law and under the United Nations Charter, international legitimacy and human rights, and not in an age of the law of the jungle and futile religious claims to justify the usurpation of other peoples' land by force. This requires from the international community and the United Nations a more firm and non-selective stand in defending the Charter and international law and in prompting Israel to respect international legitimacy and international conventions and to implement the resolutions of the United Nations. The brotherly Lebanese people have achieved a historic milestone, thanks to their solidarity and that of their State, in strongly resisting Israeli occupation. Syria stood by Lebanon firmly in order to ensure the full implementation of resolution 425 (1978). Syria will always stand by Lebanon and support all its national issues, especially the ones concerning the return of all its territory and the return of its hostages held in Israeli jails. In this regard, we urge the donor countries to fulfil their commitments to help Lebanon rebuild what Israel has destroyed, particularly the 19 damage it caused during its occupation of southern Lebanon. From this international forum, Syria would like once again to stress the great importance it attaches to maintaining the territorial integrity of Iraq. We call for relieving the suffering of the Iraqi people by lifting the economic sanctions that only affect the people. We also stand against any measures taken against Iraq outside the context of United Nations resolutions so that those resolutions will retain the necessary credibility to bring about their implementation. We also deem it necessary to find a just and humane solution to the question of Kuwaiti and other prisoners of war, within a practical framework agreed upon between the Kuwaiti and Iraqi sides. We do not want the issue of prisoners of war and missing persons to remain outside the human and political framework that will allow us to arrive at a solution. Syria also calls upon the Security Council to quickly and permanently lift the sanctions it imposed against Libya. Libya has delivered on all its commitments under Security Council resolutions. We fully support Libya's demands. In view of the strong, brotherly relations between Syria, the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran, we call upon the two neighbouring countries to pursue negotiations to resolve peacefully the dispute over the three islands on the basis of the principles of good neighbourliness and mutual respect. Syria believes that the establishment of a trilateral committee to pave the way for direct negotiations between Iran and the United Arab Emirates through the creation of favourable conditions is a practical initiative. We hope that it will allow the two parties to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion. We would like to welcome the achievements of the representatives of Somalia in forming a temporary Somali parliament and electing Mr. AbdiKassim Salad Hassan as President of democratic Somalia. We consider these achievements as major pillars for the restoration of Somali State institutions. We call upon the international community to redouble its efforts to help Somalis carry out the tasks of reconstruction and rehabilitation. The continued tragic situation in Afghanistan is a source of great concern to us. We are convinced that the problem of Afghanistan can only be solved by stopping the fighting and beginning negotiations aimed at achieving national reconciliation. It must also be solved by finding an acceptable and permanent political settlement that brings about security and stability for the Afghan people. Many Arab and Islamic countries fear that continued and senseless fighting in Afghanistan may lead to undermining the concept of the State in that country and to destroying its heritage and whatever is left of its historic traditions. Syria welcomes the discussions convened at the highest level in Pyongyang in June 2000. We express the hope that this rapprochement between the two Koreas will contribute to achieving the aspirations of the Korean people in reunifying the peninsula through peaceful means. There was a consensus in the statements delivered at the Millennium Summit and in the Summit Declaration about the need to exert all possible efforts to rid humanity of the humiliating and inhumane conditions of extreme poverty, in which more than a billion people live. The Summit stressed the commitment of Member States to basic human rights, as well as to the right of every country to development. We think this will require developing a new economic international order that is just, fair and democratic. It will also require finding a multilateral commercial and financial system characterized by transparency, equality and non-discrimination. We must also find the best mechanism possible to solve developmental problems, especially on the African continent. Such a system should also give preferential treatment to developing countries in order to facilitate investment and the transfer of technology and know-how. That would allow for full, effective and equal participation by the South in the process of decision-making at the international level. Although these requests seem far- fetched now, they will in the final analysis serve all parties and States, whether they be rich or poor, in the North or in the South. We had fervently hoped that a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East would have been achieved by the beginning of the twenty-first century and with the ushering in of this new millennium. Nonetheless, we remain optimistic. Peace will remain our strategic choice and that of all peoples who aspire to a bright future in which peace, security and prosperity prevail for human beings everywhere.At the outset I would like to extend my warmest congratulations to the President on his well-deserved election. I also wish to express our sincere appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab for his devoted work, tireless efforts and dedication while successfully presiding over the fifty-fourth United Nations General Assembly. The Millennium Summit that concluded only a few days ago has reaffirmed the unanimous belief of the world leaders that only together, guided by the spirit and the objectives of the founding fathers of the United Nations and respecting the established system of principles, norms and standards of international relations and international law, can we successfully respond to the challenges of the twenty-first century. Despite its weaknesses, imperfections, inadequate efficiency and sometimes missed opportunities, the consequences of which were partly felt in my country, the United Nations succeeded in maintaining global security, in containing several local and regional conflicts, in preserving peace and in facilitating the normalization of life. It has been successful in offering relief and hope to the most unfortunate ones. Again, my country experienced this side of the United Nations as well. In this respect, we again welcome the Srebrenica Report and subsequent Brahimi Report. 28 If all this was achieved mostly under the conditions of the confrontations of the cold war, in a climate of mistrust and in the century during which humanity not only achieved the highest objectives but also touched the lowest depths, there should be no doubt that the United Nations can fulfil its new tasks. Addressing this Assembly on behalf of the country that in the memory of humankind is associated with the eruption of the First World War an event that was an early omen of the entire tragedy of the twentieth century I would like to express hope that at the very end of this century, after all the horrors of the Second World War and after the inconceivably tragic conflicts following the dissolution of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina has exhausted all the misfortune of being at the epicentre of historic earthquakes. And I hope that, under the auspices of the United Nations, Bosnia and Herzegovina is ready to gain anonymity through a speedy recovery and blessed, long-lasting and happy progress. The United Nations through its activities has and will continue to influence the developments in the world. It has to follow the rapid and very often radical changes in international relations and to adjust accordingly and find the best ways to exercise its duties and its role. The reform of the United Nations no doubt is a very delicate issue. But its postponement and endless debates that only maintain the status quo are an even greater issue. Furthermore, these things bring into question the ability of the United Nations to modernize and democratize in order to improve its capacity and efficiency. An agreement has been reached on some of the most crucial issues regarding the reform of the Security Council, including the increase in its membership both its permanent and non-permanent seats to include the representatives of the developed and the developing countries and to provide more equitable geographical representation of the countries. I believe that by adopting this minimum of initial reforms of the Security Council and through continuous work on the other related issues such as the issue of the veto a favourable atmosphere would be created and this would positively influence relations within and all the activities of the United Nations. In our address to the General Assembly a year ago, our delegation announced that we would like to become a more active member of the international community, primarily of the United Nations. We said that we were determined to move from the position of the recipient of the concern and attention of the international organizations and forums a position in which we were placed for more or less well-known reasons to the position of a contributor to international efforts. The fact that we are in a position to consider the need or even the imperative of taking a more active and creative role, and thus a bigger share of responsibility, testifies to the trend of normalization of the situation in our country, which was ravaged by a war only five years ago. Although small in number, an integrated group of 13 policemen from both entities, comprising representatives of all three constituent peoples who only recently were fighting each other have been deployed with the international peacekeeping force in East Timor. Furthermore, with significant assistance from and the endorsement of the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH), efforts to form a joint unit composed of the military from both entities are under way. Once established, the unit would be sent to a peacekeeping mission under the United Nations flag. We are considering very seriously the possibility of presenting the candidature of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a non- permanent seat in the Security Council after the year 2010. In this way, we are confirming our commitment to the stabilization and normalization of life in our country, and particularly our commitment to economic and democratic development. We are confident that, as early as 10 years from now, Bosnia and Herzegovina will succeed in becoming a member of the most important body of the United Nations. Although we display courage in expressing readiness to take a larger share of responsibility as a Member of the United Nations and of other regional organizations, we are fully aware that we still need the international presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we still need its assistance and support in the normalization of life, in eliminating the consequences of war and in preparing ourselves for self-sustainable development and progress. Implementation of the Dayton/Paris Peace Agreement still remains the main focus of the activities of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels. Its implementation is also the primary focus of the international community and its representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Imperfect as the Peace Agreement undoubtedly is, this cannot be an excuse for a lack of commitment to its implementation. For it is exactly its consistent implementation that can bring us closer to the point at 29 which it would be normal, and even unavoidable, to establish a new framework and new directions for Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress towards higher levels of development and higher living standards. However, this will only be possible when the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina become a place and an instrument for the realization of common interests and objectives of both of its entities and of all of its constituent nations and peoples instead of being a locus for very costly obstructions and confrontations to the detriment of all, in particular those who want to return to their homes. In many areas throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past 12 months progress has been made. This is encouraging and indicative of the fact that in many fields of life things could advance faster and more successfully along the road towards desired and needed progress. The return of refugees and internally displaced persons still remains the priority. There continue to be cases in which returnees have to flee their only recently rebuilt homes when faced with brutal attacks by neighbours of different ethnicities or religions. But at the same time it is encouraging that more often the returnees are welcomed by their neighbours and offered assistance and support. During the first six months of this year three times more so-called minority returns were registered compared to the same period last year. However, the number of returns is considered to be even larger, since not all returns have been registered or have not been fully completed as yet. The other positive development noticed in the returns is the fact that among the returnees there are more and more young people and families with school-age children, which was not the case in the past, when only so-called elderly households returned to their homes. This progress, of course, may be the result of improved security conditions, freedom of movement, somewhat better infrastructure or offering assistance with the repairing of houses or apartments; but, above all, this progress is the result of a growing awareness on the part of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is savage, illegal and inhuman to deprive people of their sacred rights to home, life and security. Returns were also significantly increased because indicted war criminals were more successfully brought to justice and because of a more independent, more reasonable and more constructive engagement on the part of the media. Still, the role of the international community in achieving all that has been mentioned in particular the role of the High Representative, the Peace Implementation Council, the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Stabilization Force, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe is irreplaceable. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the members of the Security Council for inviting the three members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to New York last November on the occasion of the fourth anniversary of the Dayton/Paris Peace Agreement. That visit resulted in the adoption of the New York Declaration. Implementation of the provisions of the Declaration brought about major achievements: the establishment of the State Border Service, the formation of the Secretariat of the Presidency and improvements that facilitated the functioning of this joint institution, the reconstruction and enlargement of the Council of Ministers, and the creation of conditions conducive to the return of refugees and internally displaced persons. Also, as a related activity, the first steps in organizing the battle against corruption have been taken. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the constituency of all the three nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina will have far- reaching consequences for overall developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This decision should reduce the unique ethnic and religious apartheid and disenfranchisement of citizens belonging to the so- called minority nations. Among the achievements that encourage and have a positive impact on the change of the overall climate in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be mentioned those made in the area of the judicial system. Those achievements are reflected in the professionalization of judges and prosecutors and in their modernization. Through the establishment of multi-ethnic police comprising uncompromised professionals, training and education of young policemen in police academies, composition of police forces that reflect the demographic picture of the local population, the space for abuses is thereby narrowed, and an environment favourable to arbitrary behaviour and unpunished harassment and oppression of citizens belonging to so called minority nations is eliminated. It is my pleasure to inform the Assembly that significant efforts are being made in the promotion and 30 protection of human rights and civil freedoms in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all fields. In the course of preparing for the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, we will request that government bodies, courts, the police force, schools and universities, non-governmental organizations, religious institutions and their leaders and distinguished individuals from different spheres of life, challenge those who still advocate and practise different forms of discrimination and intolerance and step on human rights, freedoms and human dignity. We, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are aware that healing the consequences of war and post-war stagnation and removal of impediments to faster stabilization and progress rests primarily with the domestic political leadership. We are also aware that the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in its integration into European and other institutions. The Stability Pact for south-eastern Europe has therefore been accepted as a framework conducive to regional cooperation, elimination of mistrust, strengthening of security conditions and for catching up with missed opportunities in the spheres of human rights and democratic emancipation and economic progress. Bosnia and Herzegovina wholeheartedly embraces the Stability Pact as the most important regional endeavour so far, convinced that, despite the slow realization of a number of projects and despite the slower inflow of contributions, its objectives are fully consistent with the objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. The achievement of these objectives would embark us on the road to faster integration into the Council of Europe, the European Union, the World Trade Organization and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. There is no doubt whatsoever that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) should participate in the Stability Pact, but we share the views of those who condition its participation on the necessary democratic changes in that country. At the same time, we consider that the other countries of the region should not be kept hostage by the FRY on their way to Euro-Atlantic integration. In this context, we would like to recall that, at the early stages of the establishment of the European Union, there was no waiting list for the present members of the Union and that they did not have to pass the entering examination successfully and simultaneously. At this point in time, the waiting lists and admission procedures could be counterproductive and could encourage those forces in the region, including in my own country, to persist in continuing the state of chaos and exclusion. At the beginning of this year, the situation in the neighouring Republic of Croatia has been significantly improved by the opposition victory in the elections. A number of issues that burdened the relations between the two countries have practically been resolved, since some of the issues were tackled in the bilateral meetings at the highest levels immediately after the elections. The change brought about by the elections also positively influenced the return of refugees, although more visible results in this area are still to come. However, regrettably, there is still no improvement in relations with the FRY and, at this point, it is still uncertain when the improvement might occur. For sure, without democratic changes in Serbia, the establishment of full diplomatic relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the FRY could hardly occur. The democratic changes in the FRY certainly would positively reflect on the internal relations between the two entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as on overall relations in the region. The democratic changes in the Bosnia and Herzegovina neighbourhood have certainly cut off the influx of exported elements of destabilization and crisis. I have already referred to the positive example of changes in Croatia. We, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, must gather the courage and strength to face our reality and to choose the path and the direction that would lead us speedily towards the achievements that would compensate for the decade of suffering, deprivation and missed opportunities. In the process of making this clear and rational choice, we would like to count on the unreserved support of the international community, and on a rather sooner than later integration into Euro- Atlantic institutions. We have to say that this integration is already very much behind schedule and we do not have a lot of time to waste.It is my pleasure to congratulate the President on his election. It bears witness to the esteem which the international community has for his country and for him. In wishing him every success in the conduct of our work, I should like to assure him also of the sincere cooperation of the delegation of Benin. May I also pay a well-deserved tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, for the outstanding work he accomplished. In view of the developments in international relations, the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, had the felicitous initiative of gathering the highest 20 representatives of the peoples of the world for consultations on a new world order and on the role which the United Nations will be called upon to play. I would like to pay him a well-deserved tribute and emphasize the determined conviction and competence with which he heads the Organization. The Millennium Summit showed once again that multilateralism and international cooperation remain the best approach to confront problems in globalization. Indeed, the positive effects of globalization remain limited, as is borne out by imbalances in economic and social terms that characterize the world today and violate human dignity and human rights. What must be done therefore is to channel the globalization process towards economic and social progress for the benefit of the greatest number. In this process, the United Nations has a comparative advantage — it is the only institution able to embody universally accepted values and the only platform for organizing fruitful debate on world issues, as well as on the ways and means for settling them. The United Nations is the body where the weak and the forgotten are able to make their voices heard and to participate in the attainment of a consensus on questions of common interest. And, indeed, globalization today is a fait accompli; however, we must emphasize that it is not neutral. Good governance, democracy and transparency must be consolidated not only in national terms, but also in international relations. These principles must be applied both within States as well as with respect to forces that govern globalization and make use of it as before to avoid any form of democratic control. At the Millennium Summit, the heads of State and Government adopted a document which determines the main outlines of the United Nations action for the twenty-first century. It is now up to the world community and, thus, up to our States, to civil society and to the private sector to show the necessary determination to implement the guidelines of the Summit quickly and resolutely to make a reality of the message of hope and determination which was expressed by the leaders of the world. Benin is pleased that special attention was focused on Africa. The initiatives taken for the continent require the firm support of the development partners in the sense of a partnership and solidarity which must basically work on the following: a lasting solution to the debt problem; a more just order for the international trade system; support in terms of financial resources and strengthening production capacity. We call for the effective implementation of measures to integrate developing countries into the world economy taking account of the special needs of the least-developed countries with a view to halting the deterioration in their situations. In this regard, the holding of the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries is of particular importance. It is essential that it lead to concrete results. The elimination of poverty is one of the challenges that the international community was unable to meet in the twentieth century. It is our responsibility to dedicate ourselves to this task. In this regard, we are pleased with the initiative taken by the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to organize a special ministerial meeting to discuss the strategic orientation of UNDP and the need to provide it with the resources essential for it to carry out its missions. Benin is relying on UNDP, the main body for coordinating development assistance, to meet the challenges facing developing countries. In commending the countries that have announced an increase in their official development assistance, I appeal for the restoration of a balance in favour of core budgetary resources to make it possible to execute the programmes and projects to which Governments accord priority. With regard to financing for development, it is particularly essential to ensure that resources are better mobilized and that development action involving all partners, including the Bretton Woods institutions, is better coordinated. All these programmes and plans can be implemented only in an environment in which peace and security are guaranteed. Benin therefore welcomed with great interest the Brahimi report (A/55/305), containing an in-depth analysis of peacekeeping operations. 21 With regard to Somalia, Benin would also like to express its satisfaction with the leader of the Inter- Governmental Authority on Development and all the facilitators for their courageous initiatives to bring peace to that country through a process of dialogue and reconciliation. We appeal to the international community to lend its support to the consolidation of the process so that Somalia can rapidly become part of the community of nations. Benin is, and will remain, committed to respecting and promoting human rights, democracy and the rule of law. These principles are inscribed in its Constitution. In that context, since the fifty-second session the General Assembly has supported Benin in its organization of the Fourth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies, to be held in Cotonou from 4 to 6 December 2000. This Conference will undoubtedly be an important stage in the international community's progress towards the consolidation of democratic principles. At the Conference the old and new democracies will exchange their experiences and commit themselves to promoting democracy, peace and political stability and development. Cotonou is preparing a warm welcome, and hopes that there will be a great response to its invitation.  I am honoured to address the Assembly on behalf of the United States and to reinforce the eloquent message President C1inton conveyed during last week's Millennium Summit. Because my father worked here when I was young, I have always considered myself a child of the United Nations. And because I had the privilege to serve here as America's Permanent Representative, I feel at home and so will speak plainly. The members of this body reflect virtually every culture, ethnicity and geographical region. We are city and country, inland and island, tropical and temperate, developing and industrialized. We are as diverse as humanity. And yet, in responding to the daunting demands of this new era, we are bound together by the interests we share and the ideals to which we aspire. We all have a stake in building peace and relieving poverty, championing development and curbing disease. We all want to see the dangers posed by weapons of mass destruction reduced, refugees cared for, children nourished, the environment protected, and the status of women advanced. We all believe the benefits of globalization must be allocated more broadly within and among societies. Because if the new technologies are to ease the old problems, they must help the many who today lack access and skills, so that every village becomes a home to opportunity and every school a midwife to hope. As the Millennium Summit reflected, we have no shortage of worthy goals. We are right to aim high and take on the mightiest tasks. But as the Secretary-General has said, progress depends on working together. We need all hands on deck, pulling in the same direction. For each of us, that responsibility begins at home because the international community cannot help any nation that is not striving to help itself. Each Government has an obligation to observe international norms on human rights, uphold the rule of law, fight corruption and raise awareness about HIV/AIDS. But in the twenty-first century, no nation can protect and serve its people simply by going it alone and that is why we all benefit from strengthening regional bodies such as the Organization of American States (OAS), the Organization of African Unity (OAU), the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Because of their unique expertise and regional legitimacy, they can be instruments for solving some of the hardest challenges we face. But they will succeed only if we raise our expectations of these organizations, call upon them to act boldly and back them when they do. Regional bodies can contribute much to the purposes outlined in the Charter, and the goals established during the Millennium Summit. But here again, they cannot do it all. 8 The role of the United Nations is also vital, because no other institution combines a comprehensive mandate with near universal representation and global reach. We all have an interest in the success of the United Nations. That is its greatest strength, and also its burden, because 189 nations have to work very hard if they are to agree. I remember when I came to New York in 1993, I was told by cynics that the United Nations was too bureaucratic to change, and too big ever to achieve consensus on measures to improve its governance. Those cynics were wrong. With support from many countries, we have made impressive progress. Compared to seven years ago, the United Nations accomplishes more and wastes less. Accountability has increased and duplication diminished. The Internal Oversight Office, which did not exist in 1993, has grown steadily more rigorous and is responsible for tens of millions of dollars of savings. A culture of transparency and results is slowly but surely taking hold. Moreover, both United Nations Headquarters and the entire United Nations system are better led than they have ever been. United Nations leaders and Members can take pride in the gains made, but we all know there is much more work to be done. That is why we must back the Secretary General's efforts to further improve United Nations management, recognizing that every dollar wasted is a dollar lost to the fight against poverty and to the achievement of other urgent goals. We must also move ahead rapidly to strengthen peacekeeping, because it is the most visible and vital yardstick of United Nations success and, for people in strife-torn regions, often means the difference between a normal life and no life at all. There is no magic formula for curing the ills that have plagued United Nations peace operations in the past. But the report, just prepared by Ambassador Brahimi's team, is a solid place to start. As President Clinton said last week, we need to ensure that United Nations peacekeepers can be deployed with the right training and equipment and the right rules of engagement so they can achieve, not merely attempt, their missions. This will require a larger peacekeeping staff, on permanent assignment, comprised of the best talent and experience we can find. It will require military planners the world over to recognize that training for peace operations is a legitimate part of every nation's security strategy. It will require the ability to deploy rapidly not only United Nations military forces, but also civilian police and experts in law enforcement and judicial reform. It will demand improved coordination between military peacekeepers and civilian builders of peace, so that missions begun are completed and recovery bred by reconciliation can take hold. And it will require additional resources from my Government and from each of yours. And by “additional”, I mean resources that should not come at the expense of other core United Nations goals. The United States will heed the Secretary- General's request that we work together to consider and implement the best recommendations of the Brahimi report. Whether for peacekeeping or programmes, the United Nations also needs a sustainable and equitable system of financing. We do not have that today. Member States, including my own, must do a better job of making payments on time. But we must also look afresh at the method used to allocate responsibility for United Nations costs. Last week, the Security Council called for adjustments in the scale of assessments. This plea has been echoed by dozens of other countries and should be acted upon by the General Assembly this fall. A more equitable system should provide a much stronger foundation for United Nations programmes and missions. It should preserve the special responsibility for peacekeeping of the Security Council's permanent members. It should retain a heavily discounted rate for the poorest countries. And it should reduce the United Nations overall reliance on payments from the United States, while at the same time enabling my Government to write a check to the United Nations for nearly $600 million in prior obligations. 9 Clearly, adjustments are long overdue. The United Nations needs a firm and reliable financial base. In the weeks ahead, the United States will be pleased to work with members to accomplish this landmark goal. Further improvements in management and peacekeeping and a sounder financial base are a vital step towards a stronger and more effective United Nations. But we must also stand up to the campaign launched by Baghdad against the United Nations authority and international law. Security Council resolution 1284 (1999) provides an effective plan for protecting world security through resumed weapons inspections and monitoring inside Iraq. It has expanded the oil-for-food programme that has delivered $8 billion in humanitarian supplies to Iraqi civilians, with $6 billion more on the way. And it would enable Iraq, through compliance with the resolution's terms, to achieve an early suspension of sanctions. Thus far, Baghdad has flatly refused to accept the resolution. The regime's strategy is to ignore its United Nations Charter obligations and to seek to preserve at all costs its capacity to produce the deadliest weapons humanity has ever known. We must continue to do all we can to ease the hardships faced by Iraq's people. But we must also defend the integrity of this institution, our security and international law. The Millennium Summit illustrated the United Nations long-standing role as a forum for articulating consensus goals. But achieving these objectives will require action at all levels, from local to global. It will also require a willingness to move well beyond the limits and habits of the past. Today, the United Nations is taking on a wide array of new issues, what I call “people issues”, because they so directly affect the lives of our citizens. They include the challenge of protecting our planet by limiting greenhouse gas emissions; securing safe water supplies; halting desertification; and putting a stop to trafficking in human beings. They especially include the fight against HIV/AIDS, which was highlighted in a letter to the Secretary-General signed by the women Foreign Ministers last night. These and similar challenges are sure to be important components of twenty-first century diplomacy, and because they are global in scope, require a global response. The United Nations is also playing an increased role in areas where cold war divisions once held it back. Over the past decade, United Nations entities have contributed much by prosecuting war criminals, promoting democracy, supporting human rights and aiding the fight against illegal drugs. These issues require a willingness to take a stand, as the United Nations has done in holding accountable the perpetrators of ethnic cleansing in Rwanda and the Balkans; striving to end rebel outrages in Sierra Leone; and expressing opposition to the long-standing and ongoing violation of basic human rights in Burma. Let me say this morning that when the Burmese Government tries to blame the victims for the crime, and say that Aung San Suu Kyi and her party are responsible for their own repression, I can only reply that much the same was once said about Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Nelson Mandela and Václav Havel. The world is not fooled, and we must not be silent. Some argue that speaking out in defence of human rights constitutes interference in internal affairs. I believe it helps to fulfil the purposes of the United Nations Charter, because when international norms are assaulted, the United Nations must do more than simply observe injustice, or report upon it, or sympathize with the victims. We must do all we can, where we can, to stop the perpetrators. This requires the active backing and participation of United Nations Members, so that respect for international law becomes steadily more universal and the incentives for observing global standards progressively more clear. The result, if we are united and determined enough, will be a world of greater security, justice and peace. Realistically, this is essential, if we are to achieve the ambitious social goals we have set. But there is one other essential element as well, and that is democracy. This past summer in Poland, for the first time, more than 100 nations came together to reaffirm democratic principles and ensure that the democratic tide remains a rising one around the world. We did this not because democracy always produces good Governments, for it does not. But we are convinced by the evidence of the old century that the hopes we share for the new will more readily be 10 accomplished if people are able to live and work in freedom. Democracy is the one road we can all walk down together and the best system yet devised for sowing and growing the seeds of economic opportunity. In promoting democracy, we are not attempting to impose our values on anyone else. In fact, this is not possible, because democracy, by definition, enables citizens within a country to shape their own destinies in accordance with their own convictions and ideals. Make no mistake. In any country, at any time, dictatorship is an imposition. Democracy is a choice. As we have learned during the last 55 years, the United Nations provides no guarantees of global peace or prosperity. But it can play a vital role as catalyst and coordinator, and as a bridge connecting the contributions of one to another. To those who would judge it harshly, I would respond not by pointing first to the deliberations of diplomats such as myself, in surroundings such as these. Instead, I would point to the day-to-day efforts of United Nations workers caring for refugees, feeding children, providing shelter and preventing disease. I would point to the men and women on the front lines, from Port-au-Prince to Freetown, and from Kosovo to Kisangani, doing some of the world's hardest work, and, as we have been reminded by the recent slayings of employees of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in East Timor, also the most dangerous. It is their efforts and sacrifice, in partnership with so many indigenous and other non-governmental organizations, that truly remind us of the United Nations purpose and of our kinship with one another. This is, I expect, my last official speech to a United Nations audience. As I stand before you, I am deeply conscious not only of our many accomplishments, but also of the tasks not yet completed. I am grieved by the conflicts that still rage, and the basic rights and freedoms still denied. I am frustrated by the gaps that still exist between our ideals and actions, and alarmed by the deepening material divide that ultimately threatens every nation, rich and poor alike. There are those who say it is naïve to think that the future can be made better than the past. I am reminded that this institution was founded by men and women who were as realistic as any human beings could be, for they were the survivors of the worst conflict our world has known and determined that succeeding generations should be saved from holocaust and war. They had faith. Surely we, as well, must have faith that by working together within and outside this Organization, we can move together, step by step towards the lofty goals we have set, and thereby bring about a world more peaceful, prosperous and free than it has ever been. Since 1993, it has been my privilege to work with so many of you, from every part of the globe, in support of the interests we have in common and the dreams our people share. This morning, I want to thank you for your friendship; pledge my cooperation in the months immediately ahead; and ask respectfully, in turn, for yours. I promise, as well, to serve the cause of international progress and individual liberty not only for as long as I am in office, but for as long as I am alive.I congratulate the President on behalf of the Botswana delegation on his election to lead the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. He can count on our support as he discharges his onerous responsibilities during this historic session and in the year that lies ahead. I also take great pleasure in saluting my brother and colleague, the outgoing President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his outstanding leadership of the fifty- fourth session of the General Assembly — the last session of the twentieth century — and for steering it to a successful conclusion. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has continued to give a good accounting of himself as the chief executive of this, our United Nations. We owe him a debt of gratitude for the manner in which he has, without fear or favour, led the United Nations during the past four years. Five years ago, in this very Hall, we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. On that historic occasion, the former President 12 of the Republic of Botswana, Sir Ketumile Masire, had this to say about the United Nations: “The United Nations has served us well. Small States such as my own have found in the United Nations a vital forum for collective bargaining. It has contributed to the advancement of international cooperation in solving economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems. It is a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of these common ends.” (A/50/PV.37, p. 3) Botswana's faith in and commitment to the United Nations remains undiminished, and we are here on the eve of the new millennium to renew that faith and to reaffirm that commitment. The United Nations begins the new millennium heavily laden with the residual problems of the outgoing century. Even as we meet here, bloody conflicts of varying degrees of intensity and savagery are ravaging societies in many places around the globe. Endemic poverty holds sway in the developing world, in contrast with the lavish opulence of the West. Diseases, the most virulent of which is the devastating HIV/AIDS pandemic, have continued to cause untold misery all over the world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. All these problems pose a serious challenge to the United Nations and to the international community as a whole. The character of the twenty-first century will no doubt be determined by our ability and commitment to face this challenge. On the African continent, the struggle for peace and against war remains an all-consuming preoccupation. The agendas of the United Nations Security Council and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) attest to this vexing state of affairs. All the efforts of the leaders of Central and southern Africa, which a little more than a year ago produced the Lusaka Agreement aimed at bringing peace to the war- torn region of Central Africa, have thus far come to naught. There is no peace in the region because the Agreement remains unimplemented even as the parties have continued to profess their fidelity to it. The United Nations now has the authorization of the Security Council to deploy more than 5,000 observers in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to monitor the ceasefire and pave the way for the deployment of a full-fledged peacekeeping force in the near future. A crucial element of the Lusaka Agreement, among others, is that there must be dialogue in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, among the people of that country, if the international efforts spearheaded by the United Nations and the OAU aimed at creating conditions for national reconciliation in that country are to bear fruit. Regrettably, there is no dialogue in process in that country, although a facilitator has been in place for nine months. We hope the Congolese leaders will soon realize that without the implementation in full of the Lusaka Agreement, their country will be bereft of any hope for peace. There may be no second chance. The Lusaka Agreement is their only salvation. The leaders of Burundi, next door to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, recently gathered in Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania, to make peace under the facilitation of the former President of the Republic of South Africa, Mr. Nelson Mandela. Their gathering in Arusha attracted the presence of leaders from near and far, including the President of the United States of America, Mr. Bill Clinton. Regrettably, the peace agreement reached was embraced by some and denigrated by others, which does not augur well for peace in Burundi. It is our fervent hope that those who have not embraced the Arusha peace agreement will do so. In having President Mandela as Facilitator, the people of Burundi could not have been more fortunate — and for the second time. Before President Mandela, it was the late President Mwalimu Nyerere, may his soul rest in peace, who gave so much of himself for peace in Burundi. Burundi may not be so fortunate a third time. On that occasion, President Clinton had this to say: “So I plead with you: you have to help your children remember their history, but you must not force them to relive their history.” Burundi would do well to heed these words and save its children from the scourge of endemic conflict. The Great Lakes region of Central Africa needs peace. The neighbours of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi, all of them, will not have peace so long as carnage continues in their backyard. Angola will not have peace so long as its neighbours to the north are strife-torn. The United Nations is making steady progress in Sierra Leone, following initial mishaps which 13 threatened to reduce this Organization to an object of ridicule. The size of the United Nations force in that small country should be enough to frustrate the murderous activities of the bandits of the Revolutionary United Front (RUF). In the final analysis, however, the future stability of Sierra Leone cannot be imposed by the United Nations or even, indeed, by the Economic Community of West African States. It is the people of Sierra Leone themselves who must embrace the logic of peace through national dialogue and reconciliation. The silence of the guns in the Horn of Africa in the tragic war between Eritrea and Ethiopia could not have been more welcome. The region has more than enough problems without endless war. Famine is stalking the area, evoking earlier episodes of human devastation, particularly in Ethiopia and Somalia. In peace, it is hoped the international community will be able to assist the affected areas without hindrance. Our hearts and best wishes go out to the people of Somalia in their difficult endeavour to restore normalcy to their fractured country. We hope the new central authority they have established will be respected by all the parties in the country. The struggle for peace in Africa, if it is to be successful, must be prosecuted on two fronts — political and economic. On both fronts, I can assure this Assembly that Africa is not a hopeless continent, as some of our detractors would have the world believe. The Secretary-General's seminal report on the causes of conflict in Africa has not fallen on deaf ears. Our continent has been changing for the better for some time now. Changing democratically elected governments by unconstitutional means, whatever the reason, is no longer tolerated. Coup makers are no longer welcome in the councils of the OAU. We have come to accept that good governance and the rule of law, far from being regarded as sinister neo-colonialist concepts as some may wish to stigmatize them, simply mean accountability and transparency on the part of those who are entrusted with the responsibility of running the affairs of their nations. They mean cultivating a culture of incorruptibility, openness and tolerance. On the economic front, I cannot gainsay the obvious fact that people cannot eat democracy or good governance. Democracy in an environment characterized by abject poverty and ignorance is an endangered species. Africa needs investment and aid to buttress its democratization process. The challenge facing the United Nations in the new century is therefore to strive to ensure that Africa's difficult renaissance is not simply encouraged but also supported in material ways. The western world would do well not simply to shout at Africans, to pontificate about human rights and good governance and deprecate the continent's civil wars and endemic instability, from the privileged comfort of Western Europe and North America. Africans need and deserve hands-on solidarity and constructive engagement with the developed world if they are to succeed in their struggle for peace and development. Let me state the obvious. Small States like my own derive a sense of security from our membership in the United Nations. The United Nations is our shield against the vagaries and predatory nature of world politics. That is why we have been unstinting in the fulfilment of our obligations to the Organization. We pay our dues to the Organization without fail. We have participated in its peacekeeping activities. And we have defended it against its many detractors. It is no secret, however, that this United Nations to which we all habitually profess our unflinching commitment and devotion is perpetually tottering on the brink of insolvency. This is unfortunately so, even as we equally habitually burden the Organization with escalating tasks for it to perform on a shoestring budget. The Secretary-General is right in challenging us, the Member States, to hold one another responsible for the financial difficulties faced by the United Nations. We alone can resolve these difficulties. We must honour our Charter obligations and do so without conditions. We must strengthen the United Nations in order to secure our future, the future of mankind. We must continually reform the Organization to adapt it to the realities of the post-cold-war world and the new millennium. A crucial part of this reform and adaptation is the reconfiguration of the Security Council, on which there is sufficient consensus in our United Nations family. The Council needs a heavy dose of democratization and accountability; about this, there is no dissension. 14 We must strengthen the peacekeeping arm of the United Nations to make good or deliver on our Charter's pledge “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war ...”. Peacekeeping has always been a crucial function of the United Nations. And so the need to enhance the rapid reaction of the United Nations to conflict situations around the world has long been recognized and is deeply felt. The lessons in Kosovo, East Timor and, more recently, Sierra Leone have taught us that the United Nations needs better trained and well-equipped troops, as well as innovative, imaginative and realistic mandates from the Security Council. Let there be no repetition of the kind of humiliation the United Nations recently suffered in Sierra Leone at the hands of a ragtag army of bandits. The conflicts that are wreaking havoc on societies today are radically different from those that preoccupied the United Nations during the cold war era. We must therefore devise new and creative mechanisms and strategies for responding to them. Let me conclude my statement by reiterating Botswana's commitment to the United Nations and its Charter. This Organization is irreplaceable, and I am sure the presence here two weeks ago of so many world leaders to mark the turn of a new millennium is more than enough testimony to this obvious fact.   Allow me, from the outset, to extend warm congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I would like also to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the able manner with which he discharged his responsibilities as President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I wish also to take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for all the efforts he has been making to make the United Nations equally relevant to all of us. I wish, in particular, to congratulate him on the success of the Millennium Summit, which we are hopeful will be a landmark for more meaningful and enhanced cooperation among nations. We have indeed been encouraged by the well- deserved emphasis that was given to Africa and to Africa's predicament at the Millennium Summit. It is our hope that the Summit may have helped create greater determination for cooperation with the peoples of Africa so that Africa may make real progress in addressing the challenges of development, peace and stability. The problems of Africa are defined by two very closely related challenges. Africa's development continues to be arrested by problems of insecurity, instability and lack of peace. On the other hand, it appears unrealistic to expect durable peace in Africa without hope in the future that could be brought about only by visible indications of possibilities for progress. In both areas, Africa has not had the necessary support commensurate with the complexity of the challenges it has faced. It might be necessary to hasten to add here that indeed Africa itself might not always have taken advantage of available opportunities for making progress, and that we might sometimes have squandered real opportunities for breaking out of the vicious cycle of poverty and lack of peace and stability. While this may be partly true, the significance of the missed chances that Africa has allowed to pass should not be exaggerated. It is far from the truth that Africa has enjoyed sustained, resolute and all-out support, either in the area of economic development or in the sphere of peace and security. On the other hand, it is precisely this type of cooperation that is required by many in Africa to be able to embark on sustainable 4 economic development and growth. But whether with respect to debt relief, or to declining terms of trade, or to all aspects of the challenges of and obstacles to development, the types of cooperation made available to our countries have always been limited as well as entangled with all kinds of conditions which have been far from helpful. Like all regions of the world and like all countries, Africa and African nations should and must assume primary responsibility for what happens in Africa in general and in individual African countries. But at one time or another in their history, most regions of the world and most countries have had occasions to rely on international solidarity and cooperation as a catalyst for creating conditions for development and stability. But Africa's fate has been different. For whatever reason, it has been easier to lose hope with respect to Africa than to give the continent the benefit of the doubt; this, even when little has been done to help Africa address the real challenges it is facing in a variety of areas. This is not only in the area of economic development. We have seen the same thing taking place with respect to the need for Africa to promote respect for the rule of law and to create conditions for peace and stability. Africa is also being marginalized in terms of the universal applicability of the principles of international law. It is our hope that Africa will be judged by the same standard in this regard. Otherwise, there can be little chance for peace and stability in our continent. We say this from experience. There is no effective substitute, if opportunities are to be created for the peaceful resolution of situations of crisis in Africa and for a quick and an appropriate response by the international community to violations of international law. Peace can never be promoted through appeasement of aggression or by creating the impression that, depending on circumstances, on where they take place and to whom they happen, some acts of aggression can be tolerated. We in Ethiopia have, only a week ago, celebrated our New Year. We have entered the year 1993 with confidence that it will be a year of peace and progress. Our people have made the commitment to resume the task of economic development with full force, a task which was rudely interrupted two years ago when our country became a victim of aggression. It is also in this spirit that we are proceeding with full commitment to put behind us the crisis we have had with Eritrea. Even before the deployment of peacekeepers, contrary to experience in other places, the cessation of hostilities has held for months now. We look forward both to the deployment of the peacekeepers and to a speedy conclusion of a comprehensive settlement. All those prepared to contribute to this effort should rest assured that what they should expect from Ethiopia, its people and their Government, is the fullest cooperation. For us, agreements concluded are made to be respected, not violated. In any case, what our people wish to be identified with, fully and with no ambiguity, is peacemaking, not war-making. We hope that we will have the opportunity to work for peace and for economic growth and development. There are few who need the blessings of peace more than the people of Ethiopia and of our subregion. As much as our people refuse to see aggression rewarded at their expense, they have, on the other hand, never been wanting in demonstrating full commitment to peace and legality. Our people will never jettison this noble tradition. Ethiopia also takes its responsibility for peace and stability in our subregion very seriously and in Africa as a whole. In this regard, we have been enormously encouraged by the developments with respect to the peace initiative on Somalia under the auspices of President Ismail Omar Guelleh of Djibouti. It is Ethiopia's hope that what has already been achieved in Djibouti will be built upon and that the momentum for peace and national reconciliation will be maintained. We are convinced that if the remaining problems are handled with realism, wisdom and mutual accommodation, there is little doubt that the people of Somalia will very soon be able to put behind them the 10-year nightmare they have faced. I would like, therefore, to take this opportunity to call on all concerned to make this newly created opportunity for peace in Somalia, and for the restoration of the Somali State, irreversible. The process should not be allowed to be held hostage by those who may not be prepared for national reconciliation. Nor should it be endangered by a failure to be sufficiently accommodating and 5 sufficiently patient. This is what the international community should encourage. The opportunity now created in Somalia should not be allowed to slip away. This could easily happen if all attention is focused on seeking international legitimacy rather than internal national reconciliation. It would indeed be a tragedy and a recipe for further bloodshed in Somalia if efforts are not made to build on the peace and stability that have already been achieved by some regions and parts of Somalia. The issue of Somaliland, for instance, requires great sensitivity and a sense of enormous responsibility. Whatever has been achieved in Djibouti is going to be tested by how well the peace and stability that some parts of Somalia have achieved is preserved. For Ethiopia, and for Somalia's neighbours, these are critical issues. The formal stand we will be taking with respect to the evolving situation in Somalia will depend on how these issues are addressed by those who now have the chance to affect the destiny of the people of Somalia. While we wish them well and promise them our full cooperation, we also ask them to use this historic opportunity with a full sense of responsibility and wisdom. Let me take this opportunity to also state that Ethiopia, along with its Inter-Government Authority on Development (IGAD) partners, will continue to do the maximum possible for peace and national reconciliation in the Sudan. It has always been our firm conviction that the Declaration of Principles provides a just and realistic basis for reaching a settlement on the crisis in southern Sudan. It is also our view that a broader national reconciliation in the Sudan can easily be achieved on the basis of democratic principles and mutual accommodation. Ethiopia will continue to be committed to peace in the Sudan on this basis and to cooperate with all those who have the goodwill to contribute to peace in our subregion. Let me reiterate: Ethiopia will do the maximum possible for peace and durable stability in Africa as a whole, with the full knowledge that without peace we in Africa will have little chance to ensure a better future for our peoples. Before concluding, I would like to say a few words on how vital it is that the reform of the Security Council be completed as speedily as possible. The reform of the Council is critical for the credibility of the United Nations and for its increased legitimacy. As matters stand now, it is only too obvious that not many believe that the work of the Security Council is conducted with sufficient transparency. In fact, there is a growing conviction that the Council is being less and less representative and more and more distant from the sentiments of the majority. This situation, we believe, needs to be rectified. This can be done in two ways. First, by ensuring that there is equitable representation of all regions of the world on the Council. Secondly, it is also important that the work of the Council be made more open and its decision-making more transparent. The interests of peace and security will be better served if the Council is more transparent and more open to the views of others, most particularly to the views of those directly affected by its decisions. It is our earnest hope that the United Nations will be more relevant to all in the twenty-first century, and in equal measure, than it has been in the past 55 years. This is not an unrealistic objective, but it requires the commitment of all, big and small.  The Government of Bolivia has given me the task of conveying its most sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session, which is a recognition of your personal merits and a tribute to your country. At the same time, I thank Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab for his work during the fifty-fourth session and for his dedication during the preparations for the Millennium Summit and the Millennium Assembly. Special thanks must also go to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his report preparatory to the Millennium Summit, the content of which has given us an opportunity to reflect upon and address specific issues with which the United Nations has been concerned in its 55 years of existence. We also welcome the recent admission of Tuvalu as a new, fully fledged Member of our Organization. 10 The recent Millennium Summit reaffirmed the recognition by the international community of the importance and significance of, and the prospects for, the United Nations Organization. It also highlighted the urgency of adapting it to, and equipping it for, the new realities in which we live, which are certainly quite different from the situation and circumstances that prevailed when our Organization came into being. The concerns of peoples and Governments today are also different. Poverty, underdevelopment and exacerbated inequalities contribute to new divisions, which threaten to lead to violence. These realities must be corrected, because they have the potential of spawning conflicts that, if allowed to persist, could seriously jeopardize the world's economic and political stability, and, it goes without saying, international peace and security. Our Organization needs to be strengthened if it is successfully to channel the expectations and opportunities of globalization while controlling, and indeed preventing, the dangers implicit in it, especially for the more vulnerable economies, which are now threatened by new forms of exclusion. The United Nations must be renewed so that it can continue to be the effective instrument for dialogue that is required to build a world in which greater security and solidarity prevail. We must consequently redefine the Organization's priorities in such a way as to make it conducive to clear-sighted and effective action. This will require substantial reform of the system's economic and financial bodies, modernization of the General Assembly's methods of work, and the adaptation of the Security Council to these new realities. Other, equally important tasks include ensuring that the necessary resources are available to the Organization; obtaining financing for development and peacekeeping operations; and adjusting the scale of assessments in accordance with the basic principle of a country's capacity to pay. A few short days ago, at the Millennium Summit, the President of Bolivia, Hugo Bánzer Suárez, referred to the close relationship between freedom and poverty, and between poverty and violence. He called for the fight against poverty to be waged in accordance with the principle of shared responsibility and with a genuine commitment to democracy, in order to mitigate present inequalities, which are threatening to intensify. It is unfair, in an open economy, for markets to be closed and for discriminatory measures to be applied with protectionist intent. It is also vital to favour countries with small-scale economies through greater capital inflows and debt relief programmes. Science and technology must become the heritage of humankind. Scientific and technological knowledge must not widen already existing gaps and divisions. At the historic meeting of South American Presidents, held recently in Brasilia, the heads of State of the region stressed the importance of access to the new information and knowledge age, which will open the way for our countries to strengthen a system of continuing education that ensures education at all levels for the all sectors of society and permits unrestricted access to knowledge and information. Democracy, which essentially seeks to organize life in society, is a vital concept that changes and is updated in tune with the changing pace of societies themselves, without in any way detracting from its fundamental values. Convinced as we are that democracy must go beyond electoral formalities and that sovereignty is vested in the people and expressed through its representatives, we in Bolivia have declared the principle of political dialogue and consultation to be the basis of a pluralistic and participatory democratic system. In that context, the practice of holding a national dialogue was instituted during the administration of President Bánzer. That mechanism is aimed at establishing a new relationship of joint efforts and shared responsibility between Government institutions, the political system and organizations throughout society. The creation of key State policies grew out of the first such national dialogue, held in 1997. This year, a national dialogue has been initiated once again to lend fresh impetus to institutional reforms and to put together a national anti-poverty programme. A new plan, involving over 3,000 inhabitants in townships across Bolivia, is being elaborated whose objective is to assign rights and responsibilities that, within the framework of a market economy, will make it possible for us to combat the poverty that still afflicts vast sectors of our population, despite nearly 20 years of life under democracy. Shortly after taking office, in August 1997, President Bánzer Suárez vowed that during his mandate Bolivia would be removed from the drug- trafficking loop once and for all, through the implementation of an integrated policy that encompasses alternative development, the eradication of illegal coca crops, confiscation, prevention and rehabilitation. Despite doubts as to the feasibility of this plan, we can now affirm that we will be fulfilling our commitments ahead of time. In 1997, there were approximately 38,000 hectares of illegal coca cultivation in Bolivia. Today, more than 80 per cent of such illegal crops have been eradicated. Our concern now is essentially whether we can sustain these achievements. Conditions must be created which in future will obviate a return to coca-leaf production as a result of the lack of jobs and income. Our major efforts now are aimed at alternative development, to see to it that illegal coca income is replaced by legal earnings from other productive activities. If we do not achieve concrete results, we run the risk of seeing those persons who cannot hope to find any other means of subsistence fall once again prey to the temptation of cultivating coca. That would constitute a surrender to the drug dealers and signify a defeat not only for Bolivia but for the world community. What Bolivia needs, then, is support in two basic areas: first, in the area of investment, to promote our economic growth in the sectors that generate the most job opportunities; and secondly, in the opening of secure markets for our exports. At previous sessions of the Assembly, Bolivia has aired the historical, political and economic arguments on which it bases its absolute need to regain the maritime status that gave rise to its existence as an independent country. To that end, Bolivia has been encouraging direct dialogue with the Republic of Chile. As a consequence of prior contacts, the Foreign Ministers of Bolivia and Chile met in Portugal in February this year, where an agreement was reached to prepare a working programme, to be formalized in the subsequent stages of dialogue, that will incorporate, without exclusion of any kind, the essential points of a bilateral relationship and seek to surmount the differences that have impeded full integration between Bolivia and Chile, the main obstacle to which has certainly been Bolivia's unresolved maritime demand. In a significant advance, on the occasion of the recent meeting of Presidents of South America, the Presidents of Bolivia and Chile, Hugo Bánzer and Ricardo Lagos, reiterated the willingness of their Governments to enter into dialogue on all topics relating to bilateral relations, without exception, in order to create a climate of mutual trust enabling the establishment of closer ties based on the structure and positions maintained by the two countries. The world community, the Americas in particular, is following with great expectation the course of this diplomatic process and the progress achieved therein. The proposal to hold a dialogue on all topics without exception is a challenge to the creativity of those involved and puts to the test our political will to correct once and for all an unjust situation that has prevailed since 1879. Furthermore, Latin America's capacity to settle its own disputes in a fair, peaceful and negotiated way will be strengthened and progress thus made on the road to regional integration. In that context, we propose the implementation of a programme to promote the integrated development of western Bolivia and northern Chile. We are also confident that Peru will participate in this programme in order to mobilize the resources and capabilities of the three countries of the region. In this way, a contribution will be made to linking the Atlantic and Pacific basins. The persistence of Bolivia's landlocked status at the heart of the continent is, without doubt, an obstacle to the creation of a major opportunity for thoroughgoing understanding and dialogue in the South American region and minimizes the effectiveness of work to promote integration being carried out in the area. This occasion provides a fitting opportunity for us to thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his interest in relations between Bolivia and Chile, which has been brought to the attention of the authorities of both countries. The Secretary-General has expressed his satisfaction with respect to the conversations held, according to the terms laid down by the parties, at the levels of heads of State, Foreign Ministers and other authorities of Bolivia and Chile. My country pledges to make every effort to translate the desire recently expressed by the Presidents of Bolivia and Chile into action that will enable us, Bolivians and Chileans alike, to advance towards the resolution of our differences, with a view to the future and in a spirit of brotherhood. 12   On my way to the Assembly Hall, I was informed by the Supreme State Council of the Islamic State of Afghanistan that in a self-evident act of aggression hundreds of Pakistani military personnel — army, plain-clothes personnel and armed Taliban — are reported to have been positioned in the Shah Salim pass dividing the Pakistan border town of Chitral from north-eastern Afghanistan, bound for an attack on Badakhshan province. On behalf of my delegation, I take this opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the major task of presiding over the important millennium session of the General Assembly. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on his excellent leadership of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly, which set the stage for the Millennium Summit. Three years ago, I stood before the Assembly and stated from this very rostrum that, as the crisis in Afghanistan continued to unfold, we had to ask, and answer, important questions. At the time, I spoke of the dark and ominous movement known as the Taliban, which, backed by cross-border troops, had invaded Afghanistan. This year, at its millennium session, the General Assembly indeed has to answer major questions. One among many is the silence the world has chosen to keep in dealing with the Taliban and their Pakistani supporters. With the spread of Talibanism, which has led to the abject misery of the Afghan nation, massive insurgency and turmoil in the region and beyond, is it not high time that the international community put a stop to the Pakistani-operated Taliban processing machine? Certainly, mere rhetoric and inadequate reactions are not enough. It is with this view that I should like to focus my statement entirely on the situation in Afghanistan and its devastating regional and international implications, within the given time limit. 4 A question arises: what has been the result of the Talibanization of the occupied parts of Afghanistan? In an age of information and globalization, it has been a reign of terror imposed by a religious police, abuse in the name of religion, the elimination of all freedoms and civil liberties, massive violations of human rights, degrading and tormenting treatment of men and women, trafficking of women and girls, the forced separation of women from their menfolk, the random and deliberate round-up of individuals based on their ethnic and religious origins, the practice of scorchedearth policy, the torching and total obliteration of farmlands, orchards and other means of livelihood, the contamination of water resources, the forcible dispatch of children and adults to the battlefields, the removal of all but rudimentary religious education — for male students only — with the closure of all schools for females, the deliberate denial of access to humanitarian aid, the intensification of battles, an exacerbation of the situation, widespread terrorism and the destruction of the historical heritage and artefacts of Afghanistan in order to alienate the Afghan nation from its ancestry and historical identity. The objective of the Pakistani military intelligence establishment, known as Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), through the imposition of the socalled Islamic Emirate of the Taliban, has been to create instability in Central and South Asia by means of terrorism. This “Islamic Emirate” has instituted Mullah Omar, the militia's leader, as the undisputed Amir-ul-Mo'mineen, meaning “Commander of the faithful” not only in Afghanistan, but in theory throughout the Muslim world. The process the Pakistani military intelligence has chosen for the realization of its objective is to transform the Afghan nation into an exhausted, devastated, illiterate, ignorant and destitute nation struggling hard for mere survival. Pakistan wants to turn Afghanistan into its false front to mask illicit activities of narcotics trafficking, terrorism and other crimes, as well as religious extremism, by establishing centres and bases for such activities. Attempting to act as the champion of the Muslim world, Pakistan continues to carry out these activities under the name of Islam. It is therefore not a matter of astonishment that such activities have led to the defamation of both the noble religion of Islam and the image of Muslims throughout the world. In short, the Afghan nation has become the direct victim of the diabolic dreams of the Pakistani military's hegemonic interests in the region. These diabolic dreams are pursued by the Pakistani military intelligence, ISI, an evil and extremist institution, while the implied risk and perilous consequences for the very survival of Pakistan as a State in the future are overlooked. As the world is gradually awakening to the creeping Taliban threat, it is a matter of dismay that some “civilized” nations, on certain occasions, have preferred to deal with the reclusive and defiant Taliban, an entity which has failed to meet the minimum standard of being considered civilized, while having championed terrorism, human rights violations and crimes against humanity. It is no surprise that only Pakistan's military junta has continuously given its full blessing to the movement. At least until early May of this year, the official position of Pakistan, from what its diplomats and officials strangely claimed, was that it maintained contacts with both parties to the conflict. However, Pakistan's News Network International (NNI) news agency reported on 25 May 2000 that General Pervez Musharraf claimed that Pakistan's pro-Taliban policy was “in accordance with Pakistan's national interest.” Advocating that Pashtoons should be on the side of Pakistan, the General was quoted as saying, “We have a national security interest, both demographic and geographic.” He further stated that in the realization of this security interest, “Pashtoons should be on our side and they”, meaning Pashtoons, “are represented by Taliban.” The world must know that in a flagrant violation of recognized international norms and principles and in clear contempt of the United Nations Charter, the ruler of the Pakistani military junta, under the outrageous pretext of national security interest, has claimed the right to impose a certain ethnic group through the invocation of an ethnically provocative mandate at the cost of the sovereignty and political independence of Afghanistan, a Member of the United Nations and, prior to that, of the League of Nations, long before Pakistan was even born. It is important to remember that terrorist training camps operating from the Taliban-held territories of Afghanistan, including those established by the infamous Osama bin Laden, whose dismantling has 5 been repeatedly called for by the United Nations and the entire international community, have been established by Pakistan's military intelligence through the Taliban mercenaries and other extremist networks. They continue to utilize these territories as a ground for training, sheltering, planning and dispatching elements seeking to commit hostile acts against countries of the region and beyond. This is done under the guise of Islam, but, in fact, it is mainly in pursuit of Pakistani hegemonistic objectives directed towards Afghanistan and the Central Asian Republics. Recent events and activities by extremist groups in Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan are manifest examples of the spillover of the Pakistan/Taliban-supported agenda in the region. The Islamic State of Afghanistan believes it is high time that the Security Council, in accordance with relevant resolutions, undertook appropriate enforcement measures against Pakistan, which is the prime source of sponsorship of these activities. The Security Council, in its unanimously adopted resolution 1267 of 15 October 1999, explicitly demanded that the Taliban mercenaries refrain from sheltering, supporting and training terrorists and planning terrorist acts from Afghan soil against other countries and that it extradite to the requesting States those indicted for committing international acts of terrorism. The recent upsurge of terrorist activities in Central Asian countries and beyond, emanating from the Taliban-occupied parts of Afghanistan, requires drastic measures by the Security Council against the militia and its Pakistani supporters. The consideration of the imposition of further targeted sanctions and the expansion of the scope of resolution 1267 (1999), which must include the end of terrorist activities in all forms and manifestations in the Taliban-held parts of Afghanistan, could adequately, among other things, serve the cause of peace and security in the region. Here I would like to welcome the proposal by the Republic of Uzbekistan for convening an international conference, at the earliest possible time, to debate the evil phenomenon of terrorism. In spite of the current devastating drought in Afghanistan — the most severe in 30 years — Afghanistan remains the leading producer of narcotics. The production of illicit drugs, and their trafficking by the Taliban and the politico-military mafia of Pakistan, account for considerable revenue, which is used to finance the prolonged war in Afghanistan. This leads to considerable transnational organized crime, while adding to the number of addicts, both at home and abroad. Among the many deliberate violations and instances of absolute disregard for international humanitarian law and the numerous crimes against humanity committed by the Taliban and their outside supporters in the year 2000, one could mention the following cases: the cold-blooded killing on 11 May of 198 young Uzbek and Hazara men imprisoned as hostages in Taliban jails; the brutal killing on 5 August of the United Nations mine-clearance employees affiliated with the Organization for Mine Clearance and Afghan Rehabilitation; the deliberate denial of access to humanitarian aid that, according to the European Union, in the light of the devastating drought constituted a breach of international humanitarian law; the forced blood-drawing and organ removal of innocent civilians along the Tagab-Nijrab route in August; the forced deportation of the civilian populations of the city of Aibak on 31 July 2000; the closing down in August, as part of the ongoing fouryear campaign by the Taliban to keep women from working, of all bakeries run by the United Nations World Food Programme in which widows were paid to make bread that was then sold at a subsidized price to other widows, who number at least 25,000 in Kabul alone; the indiscriminate aerial bombardment of civilian neighbourhoods at Taloqan on 15 August; and the forcible displacement of hundreds of thousands of people throughout the north due to renewed Taliban military onslaughts. We believe that the commission of those heinous crimes by the Taliban militia was largely attributable to the lack of adequate response by the Security Council and the international community to bring to justice the perpetrators and others involved in incidents at Bamyan in 1997, at Mazar-e-Sharif and Bamyan in 1998, in the north of Kabul in 1999, and in the killings of Iranian diplomats, a journalist and the military adviser to the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan (UNSMA) in 1998. It is significant to note that the Taliban continue to deprive women of their fundamental rights, including the right to education, which affects over 100,000 female students in Kabul alone. Women are still barred from employment by the Taliban. While the predictable results will speak for themselves, present 6 and future female generations of Afghanistan will be illiterate. The cultural and social impact of that criminal act on the country's future generations will be enormous. Pakistani military intervention in Afghanistan is a fact well known to the international community. The hundreds of Pakistani prisoners captured while fighting alongside the Taliban and now in the custody of the Government; the mortal remains of hundreds of Pakistanis in the battlefields and the documents and identification cards obtained from their pockets; the intercepted radio transmissions; and the massive logistical support and the overt supply of large quantities of military hardware and ammunition, all prove the direct involvement of Pakistani army personnel in Afghanistan. In fact, Brigadier General Rustam of Pakistan's armed forces, who is currently stationed in Afghanistan's Kunduz province, commands the Pakistani-Taliban-bin Laden operations in the north. He has been assisted by two of bin Laden's henchmen, Abu Wara and Hubab. All of them were involved in the recent occupation of Taloqan and in the atrocities committed against the civilian population. It is important to mention that the November/December issue of Foreign Affairs magazine has estimated the total number of Pakistanis having fought in Afghanistan since 1994 to be in excess of 80,000. A breakdown of Pakistani nationals fighting in Afghanistan include the following: Pakistani armed contingents, including units from the North-West Frontier Corps and different commando units, have actively participated in battles on various occasions; Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) officers involved in the planning and command and control of both intelligence operations and logistical support; ex-commissioned officers in charge of tactical operations, artillery support and logistics; frontier militia units; paramilitary members of extremist terrorist groups affiliated with the ISI, such as the Sipah-e-Sahaaba, the Sepah-e-Tayeba, the Harakat-ul-Ansar and so on; and the so-called volunteers from Pakistani madrassas, or religious schools. Other categories of foreign fighters in Afghanistan include Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda group and its affiliated units from around the Persian Gulf, the Middle East and Africa, and extremist groups from Central Asia, South Asia and the Far East. In addition, thousands of Afghan refugees who were educated and trained in Pakistani religious schools are dispatched to the battlefronts of Afghanistan. Finally, there are conscripted and forcibly recruited persons from around Afghanistan who are deployed as canon fodder. In this context, the Islamic State of Afghanistan appeals to the Security Council to mandate the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan to dispatch an investigation team to Afghanistan to verify and report to the Security Council on the presence of Pakistani armed men and Arab fighters who are working shoulder-to-shoulder with the Taliban mercenaries. This would break the silence that has thus far encouraged further Pakistani intervention in Afghanistan. I should like to remind the Assembly that only those Afghans conscripted and forcibly recruited will be immune from prosecution by the Islamic State of Afghanistan for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. The rest shall be subject to indictment. One must conclude that the failure of the Jeddah indirect negotiations in particular, and of other peace initiatives at large, derive from the sad reality that peace has no place in the Taliban agenda. While striving for the realization of noble human values and principles — the institution of a democratic system, the observance of human rights, including those of women and girls, civil liberties and elections — the Islamic State of Afghanistan reiterates its firm position to strive to reach a peaceful settlement of the conflict and hereby declares its full readiness for the formation of a broad-based, multi-ethnic and fully representative Government through a workable mechanism such as the traditional grand assembly, or loya jirgah, or any other representative forum under the auspices of the United Nations. Meanwhile, as long as Pakistan continues to directly and massively intervene in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, the Islamic State of Afghanistan considers the task of defending the territorial integrity, national unity and political independence of Afghanistan its immediate priority. The Islamic State of Afghanistan has high expectations that the United Nations and the international community will exert pressure on Pakistan to immediately cease its intervention in Afghanistan and to withdraw all its military personnel and armed nationals from Afghanistan; that the Security Council will address the question of foreign 7 intervention, the existence of terrorist networks in Afghanistan and the effective implementation of relevant Security Council resolutions; that the Organization of the Islamic Conference will clarify its view of the Taliban's words and deeds — spoken and carried out in the name of Islam — which we believe distort, and are contrary to, the true spirit of Islam, its tenets and injunctions; that the United Nations Drug Control Programme will assist the Islamic State of Afghanistan in the fight against the production and trafficking of illicit drugs; that the United Nations and the international community will step up their efforts for an early and peaceful settlement of the Afghan conflict; and that the international community will provide humanitarian assistance to the war-stricken and drought-hit civilian population of Afghanistan. Here I should like to mention that the current drought, the most severe in 30 years, will have tremendous humanitarian repercussions. We remain thankful for the statements made by the heads of delegation at the Millennium Summit and in the General Assembly expressing their legitimate concerns over the dangers emanating from the Pakistani Taliban-occupied territories of Afghanistan. We deeply appreciate and support the indefatigable efforts of Mr. Francesc Vendrell, the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan and head of the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan (UNSMA), who has left no stone unturned, and no party to the conflict or countries concerned out of communication, in finding a peaceful solution to the Afghan conflict. I should like to conclude by stating that the United Nations cannot embark on the new millennium without appropriately addressing the issues enshrined in its Charter, among others, the question of noninterference. Neither can this international body advocate globalization in its true sense when Talibanization is threatening regional stability in our part of the world. Certainly the Pakistani military junta will remain the prime actor in this dreadful and immense tragedy in Asia. Like many others afflicted with the Taliban plague, we wonder how far the evil threat of Talibanism will spread, how many more souls it will bury and how many new borders it must cross before the conscience of the international community is awakened, not just to consider but to adopt immediate and drastic preventive measures.  It gives me great pleasure at the outset to convey to Mr. Harri Holkeri on behalf of my delegation our congratulations on his election as President for this session. Aware of his well-known diplomatic experience and skill, we are confident that he will lead the work of this session to success. I should also like to express our appreciation and admiration for the role played by his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia, during his presidency of the previous session, and for his co-chairmanship of the Millennium Summit. In this respect, I commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his remarkable efforts in preparing for the Millennium Summit and the Millennium Assembly. On behalf of my delegation, I also welcome the State of Tuvalu as a new Member of our Organization. Last week, the Millennium Summit endorsed a historical declaration that laid out a strategy for meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century. Today I should like to stress that it is our duty to concentrate, during this Millennium Assembly and through its different forums, on translating that vision into decisions and resolutions to achieve and 23 consolidate international peace and security, total disarmament of weapons of mass destruction, resolution of environmental problems, combating international terrorism and organized international crime, prevention of conflicts before they erupt and resolution of the problems of poverty and socio- economic backwardness. If we succeed during this session, we can then say that we have contributed to creating circumstances conducive to the achievement of human security and have liberated mankind from fear and want. On the other hand, we believe that this Millennium Assembly should give equal importance to the reform of the institutions of the United Nations, as they represent the mechanisms through which the international community coordinates the implementation of plans for achieving international peace and security, comprehensive sustainable development and prosperity for mankind. At the apex of these institutions stands the Security Council. All countries continue to call for its reform by expanding its permanent and non-permanent membership, in order to make it more representative of the current membership of the United Nations. They also call for reform of the Council's working methods and decision-making mechanisms, in order to render it more democratic and transparent. We share the Secretary-General's view, expressed in his report to the Millennium Summit, that the main challenge we face today is how to transform globalization into a positive power that benefits all the peoples of the world. The great scientific and technological achievements of the last millennium constitute the common heritage of mankind. We call on the international community to work out the necessary guarantees to prevent these achievements from being turned into a monopoly of knowledge or cultural and intellectual domination or from being used as a means to achieve political and economic hegemony or widen the scientific and technological gap between countries of the North and countries of the South. While we welcome protection of these scientific and technological achievements as elements of intellectual property, we call upon our development partners to make this great wealth available to all humanity and to enable the developing countries to use such innovations in overcoming the chronic problems of production, food, health, education and the environment. The right to development is a basic human right. In order to guarantee that right it is imperative that we establish a democratic, just and transparent world economic order that ensures fair terms of trade between poor and rich countries, increases the level of official development assistance to poor countries and alleviates the debt burden crushing those countries. This is the only viable means to enable the developing countries to benefit from the aspects and opportunities that globalization and the revolution in information technology offer — benefits that are still monopolized by a very small minority of the population of our globe. In this regard, Sudan looks forward to the United Nations financing for development event and the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, which are scheduled to take place next year. We sincerely hope that their results will receive the effective implementation they deserve by all United Nations agencies. This year the General Assembly convened two special sessions to follow up the results of the Beijing World Conference on Women and the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development. Despite the remarkable achievements realized by national Governments and the international community in implementation of the commitments contained in the documents resulting from those gatherings, the majority of those commitments were not realized, for several reasons, foremost being the failure to fulfil the financial commitments undertaken in Beijing and Copenhagen and the excessive debt burden and debt service commitments of the developing and least developed countries. We also call for more support for efforts made by developing countries to eradicate ever-increasing poverty and all pandemic and epidemic diseases such as malaria and HIV/AIDS, especially in Africa. Sudan looks forward to participating effectively in the World Conference against Racism to be held next year in South Africa. We believe that this important conference will help us tackle crucial issues very dear to the human race. My country also intends to participate in the special session of the General Assembly to review the results and achievement of the goals of the World Summit for Children. Recently, the President of the Republic of Sudan established an advisory body, attached to his office, in 24 charge of women's and children's affairs. This step is yet further proof of the special importance that the President attaches to the issues of women and children and his incessant work to strengthen achievements in this field. We view with great interest the report (A/55/305) of the Panel of Experts prepared by Mr. Brahimi on peacekeeping operations, because of its importance and the new ideas and proposals it contains on the containment and prevention of conflicts and on peacekeeping operations. Our delegation will certainly participate in the discussion of this report in the General Assembly and relevant Committees. In this connection, we emphasize the need to set clear mandates for peacekeeping operations, ensuring the consent of the country receiving peacekeeping operations and providing the necessary resources for such operations in order to ensure their success and to avoid any possible dangers and setbacks. My delegation expresses its deep concern about the difficulties facing the peace process in the Middle East. In this respect, we reiterate the importance of total Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Arab territories in accordance with United Nations resolutions, in order to enable the Palestinian people to restore full sovereignty to their territories, to establish their independent State with Holy Jerusalem as its capital and to enable the Syrian Arab Republic to reinstate sovereignty over the Golan Heights. We are convinced that without implementation of these resolutions, stability in this important region will never be realized and will remain a mere dream. In this context, we commend the resistance and heroic struggle of the people of Lebanon in the liberation of their territories. The call to reform the international sanctions regime is gaining more momentum within the Security Council and other United Nations bodies, because the negative effects of sanctions have compounded the suffering of the peoples of the countries subjected to them, in particular vulnerable groups such as children, women and the elderly. The most horrible and dreadful aspects of the negative impacts of sanctions are seen among the Iraqi people. We add our voice to ongoing efforts to lift these sanctions. Sudan also reaffirms the importance of maintaining the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq, and rejects any measures taken outside the scope of United Nations resolutions and international legitimacy. At the same time, Sudan reaffirms the need to respect and comply with all United Nations resolutions and to respect the sovereignty of Kuwait, and calls for a just and urgent solution to the issue of Kuwaiti and non-Kuwaiti prisoners, through cooperation and understanding between the parties concerned. We believe that it is high time to lift all sanctions imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, since it has complied with and fulfilled all its obligations regarding the Lockerbie incident. We view with satisfaction the recent positive developments in the Horn of Africa, namely, the ceasefire agreement reached between our two sisterly neighbours, Eritrea and Ethiopia. We hope this agreement will culminate in a lasting peace between the two parties, and we should like to commend the efforts deployed by President Bouteflika of Algeria towards that end. We should also like to hail and commend the efforts of Djibouti and its President Ismail Omar Guelleh to achieve national reconciliation and restore stability to the Republic of Somalia. The Sudan, represented by President Omer Hassan Ahmed Al-Bashir, participated in the inauguration ceremony of Abdihassim Salad Hassan as President of the Republic of Somalia. We call on the United Nations and the international community to support efforts to restore peace, stability and security to Somalia under its elected leadership. While we fully understand the concerns of the international community about the ongoing conflict in the southern Sudan, we should like to recall that the Sudan is waging a war imposed by a rebel movement seeking to undermine its territorial integrity and the safety and security of its people. We should also like to recall that it was the Government of the Sudan that initially invited the United Nations to undertake the task of coordinating international humanitarian assistance for citizens affected by this conflict. Ten years have elapsed since the implementation of the Agreement known as Operation Lifeline Sudan. However, it has had to be reviewed because of repeated violations of its terms by the rebel movement and some other organizations participating in this process. In this regard, it is my honour to express our deep appreciation and gratitude to Secretary-General Kofi Annan and to his Special Envoy, Ambassador Tom 25 Vraalsen, as well as to the personnel of the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) for the understanding they have shown regarding the Government's demands for ensuring impartiality and transparency, as well as for determining the obligations of all parties to the agreement and ensuring the fair allocation of humanitarian assistance among citizens affected by the conflict on both sides. It is on the basis of this understanding that the Government has committed itself to ensure the safety and protection of all relief agency personnel operating in the southern Sudan. We believe it is our duty to brief the Assembly on the current humanitarian situation in the Bahr el Ghazal area in the southern Sudan, where the rebel movement has recently increased its violations of the partial ceasefire. This has created obstacles and security complications that impeded the delivery of humanitarian relief to affected citizens in that area. We therefore urge the Assembly to bring pressure to bear on the rebel movement to stop using civilian populations and locations, such as hospitals and schools, as human shields and to fulfil its obligations by halting all military operations in order to ensure unhindered relief operations to all affected populations and to avert a humanitarian tragedy similar to the one endured by Bahr el Ghazal in the first quarter of 1998. The Government of the Sudan has reaffirmed its commitment to reach a just and lasting political solution to the conflict in the southern Sudan based on the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) initiative and to respond to other initiatives intended to solve other problems. Nonetheless, these peace efforts have not succeeded because of the intransigence of the rebel movement, which continues to renege on its obligations, undermining any agreement reached. This is clearly reflected in the position of the rebel movement regarding the ceasefire, which it continues to violate, as well as its continued rejection of the call by the Government for a lasting, comprehensive ceasefire — a call that has received wide support from the international community, the IGAD partners and several other United Nations agencies, as well as regional and international groupings. President Omer Hassan Ahmed Al-Bashir reaffirmed in his address to the Millennium Summit the commitment of the Government of the Sudan to a just and lasting political solution based on the following. First, there should be an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire in order to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the needy and to create a conducive atmosphere and confidence-building measures for the success of the peace efforts. Secondly, there should be direct negotiations on the basis of current peace initiatives, specifically, the IGAD process, which provides a negotiating forum for the Government and the rebel movement, as well as the joint Egyptian/Libyan initiative, which is aimed at achieving a comprehensive resolution to all of the Sudan's problems with the participation of the Government, the rebel movement and the opposition in and outside the Sudan. Thirdly, a comprehensive peaceful settlement should be reached in order to lay the foundation for a fair distribution of power and wealth, establish rights and duties based on citizenship and guarantee total adherence to international standards and instruments of democracy and human rights. In addition to efforts being deployed to solve the military conflict in the southern Sudan, the Government continues to make efforts towards national reconciliation through direct and indirect contacts with opposition groups. Agreement has been reached to hold a comprehensive national conference in which all political and social denominations and factions will take part in order to discuss national unity, freedom, democracy and the system of government. The conference is expected to agree on a national charter that will provide the basis for a system of government characterized by pluralism, freedoms and peaceful transfer of power. The Government has taken the initiative of organizing a preparatory meeting for this conference in Khartoum, and a national preparatory committee has been formed. This will be followed by another preparatory meeting to be held in Cairo to determine the agenda, date and venue of the inclusive national conference. It is my pleasure to commend the efforts of the Governments of Egypt and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya in this regard. While efforts for peace and reconciliation are being pursued, the Government is undertaking the necessary legal and administrative measures to establish a democratic, pluralistic system that provides all the necessary freedoms. The Government is also preparing to hold parliamentary and presidential 26 elections, and has invited and welcomed the participation of international and regional organizations to supervise these elections. In the economic field, the Government continues to implement programmes of reform and liberalization of the economy and is encouraging local and foreign investment. In this context, it is my pleasure to inform the Assembly that the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund decided at its meeting last August in Washington to resume full cooperation with the Sudan. The Sudan has also managed to normalize its relations with other international and regional financial institutions, and hopes that the flow of foreign aid and foreign direct investment to the Sudan will enable it to overcome its economic difficulties and relieve its debt burden. We have also started preparations to draw up a development strategy for the coming decade, which will concentrate on poverty alleviation and on providing basic health services, education and rural development. Revenues from the export of petroleum will be earmarked for socio-economic development programmes. It has now been two years since the United States military aggression on the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical factory in the Sudan, which resulted in the total destruction of an important medical facility that used to produce more than half of the Sudan's needs for basic and life-saving medicines. The debris of that factory and the effects of the missile attack by the United States still bear witness to what happens when the military might of a super-Power is used irresponsibly. It is ironic that the same super-Power that claims to be a pioneer in protecting and safeguarding international peace and security and the principles of international law should resort to such an action. This gathering will recall that immediately after that aggression, the Sudan called on the Security Council to send a fact-finding mission to verify United States allegations concerning the factory and its financing. Yet despite the fact that the whole world, and indeed several media organizations inside the United States, have cast doubts on United States allegations about the Al-Shifa factory, the United States Administration continues to maintain its position, contrary to all facts, thus insisting on justifying a wrong that has deprived the people of the Sudan, especially the vulnerable and children, of a source of medicine at affordable prices — less than half of what those medicines cost on the international market. Convinced that rights do not die, we shall continue our efforts to urge the international community, the Security Council and the General Assembly to send a mission to verify United States allegations, and we trust that our just cause has the support of all peace-loving countries that guard these noble principles. We wish here to call on the United States Administration not to use its position in the Security Council to block the sending of a fact-finding mission that will show the world the truth and expose the unwarranted aggression against a basic health facility. The peaceful settlement of disputes is a principal objective and cardinal role of the United Nations. The Sudan adheres to this objective and seeks to realize it in the conduct of its foreign relations at all levels. Based on this position, and in order to realize this noble objective, the Sudan has continuously committed itself to respect for the norms of international law as the only way to settle disputes and to maintain international peace and security. The Sudan is today one of only 62 States that have fully accepted the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. Furthermore, the Sudan, during the Millennium Summit, signed the 1998 Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and deposited its instrument of ratification for the 1997 International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. By ratifying this treaty, the Sudan has become one of a few countries that have completed the process of ratification and adherence to all international conventions to combat international terrorism. This is indeed a source of pride to us. We believe the Assembly will agree that this record qualifies the Sudan to make all possible contributions to maintaining peace and security through the highest specialized institutions. Since it became a Member of the United Nations following its independence in 1956, the Sudan has continued to work in collaboration with the other Member States in order to develop and sustain international cooperation to realize the objectives of the Charter in all fields. The Sudan looks forward to pursuing this role in another important forum as a non- permanent member of the Security Council for the period 2001-2002, for the first time in 28 years. 27 The candidature of Sudan has been endorsed and supported by the African continent, represented in the African Group in New York, as well as by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) at the OAU summit in Togo last July. The Sudan looks forward with confidence and optimism to obtaining the support and endorsement of all United Nations Members for its candidature in the elections that will take place in the General Assembly in the coming weeks.  I should like at the outset to extend my congratulations to Mr. Holkeri on his election to preside over the work of this important fifty-fifth session. It is indeed important because it is the first session in the new millennium. We are confident that his experience and diplomatic capability will be, God willing, great assets in our effort to achieve the desired success. I also extend my sincere thanks to the President of the fifty-fourth session, His Excellency Dr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, and to his friendly country, Namibia, noting that his outstanding efforts had a tremendous impact on solving numerous difficulties and achieving good results in many matters during the past session. I should further like to express my thanks and appreciation to His Excellency, Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who tried his utmost and has not compromised, in his effort to realize the goals aspired to by all peoples of the world. We also appreciate his endeavour in preparing the report before us. A few days ago the world witnessed a great event in time and place, hosted in this building. This very same hall was crowded with a unique assemblage of world leaders who came from every corner of the globe to attend the Millennium Summit. The attendance of so many leaders and their desire to participate signifies many things, most important of which is their firm recognition of the role of the United Nations, which represents the hope of the peoples of the world for the achievement of a peaceful coexistence that guarantees security, peace and well-being for all. The Summit Declaration has deeply impressed us all. We trust that the role of the United Nations will grow stronger when States, particularly the great Powers, look beyond their narrow, short-lived interests, work in the interests of this Organization, and firmly abide by its Charter for the settlement of disputes by peaceful means and by resorting to the international judicial system. That would be a civilized demonstration of the progress achieved by nations and an acknowledgement of the significance and fairness of the rule of law, which is an instrument of security and peace, whose decisions deserve respect and full obedience. We, in the State of Qatar, under the leadership of Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the dearly beloved Emir of the country, give the United Nations and all its international organizations their due appreciation and respect as part of the philosophy of our system, which is based on truth and justice, both internally and externally. We consider democracy and human rights to be essential targets that we strive to attain according to our special cultural, religious and social characteristics. We thank God that we are aiming in the right direction. As the Assembly is well aware, we live in a region that has for two decades been plagued by disasters and crises. No sooner does one problem calm down than another erupts like an active volcano. But many good people from the Arab Gulf, and honourable people and lovers of peace from other parts of the world, are trying their best to establish security in a region of great importance to present civilization, as the region has embedded in it a sizeable portion of the sources of energy needed by all. No sooner had the Iraqi-Iranian war, which devastated the region and left it with bleeding wounds, come to an end and people had hopes of a period of rest during which the wounds could be healed, than another crisis occurred, greater in dimensions and more complex this time, namely, the second Gulf War, the invasion of Kuwait and its liberation and the economic boycott of Iraq, which has gone on for a decade so far, killing people, particularly children, the ill and the ageing. All of us now know that the sanctions have failed to achieve the goal for which they were established. Their course has changed so much that they have become like a plague afflicting people. Not only do we call for the lifting of sanctions imposed on Iraq and putting an end to the suffering of its people, but also for a reconsideration of the issue of imposing sanctions, whether by individual States or through the United Nations, for recourse to sanctions has completely failed, leaving behind merely rancour and hatred. In referring to the humanitarian situation in Iraq and realizing that humanitarian matters are indivisible, we welcome the Secretary-General's appointment of Yuli Vorontsov to be his representative regarding the fate of Kuwaiti prisoners and missing persons, so as to bring this phase of human suffering to an end. The State of Qatar sincerely hopes that through concerted bilateral and regional efforts a solution will be found to 17 the problem of prisoners and missing persons, whether they be our Kuwaiti or Iraqi brothers. In this context I should like to note that last year my Government welcomed the positive development and the progress that had been made for the settlement of the “Lockerbie” question. We commend the cooperation and positive response by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and its fulfilment of its obligations. On the other hand, we emphasize the necessity and inevitability of lifting the sanctions imposed on Libya, which had been temporarily suspended, because the whole issue had been referred to a court following the extradition of the two Libyan suspects. Consequently, there is no longer legal justification for the continuation of such sanctions. The principle of dialogue or recourse to the international judicial system referred to at the beginning of my address, fully applies to the dispute between the Emirates and Iran over the occupied islands. The State of Qatar strives, within the tripartite committee established by the Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes our sister States the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Sultanate of Oman, to reach a solution acceptable to both parties through bilateral dialogue or recourse to international arbitration. Similarly the Middle East question is foremost in our priority concerns. An endeavour to solve this question was launched but it faced obstacles and impediments that prevented the attainment of the much-sought-after peace based on legitimate international resolutions, particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), which were the foundations of the peace process. The Arabs consider peace their strategic option, yet a comprehensive peace is still beyond reach, owing to Israeli intransigence, inflexibility and disregard of the basic rights of the Arab nation. This intransigence was an impediment to peace on the Syrian-Lebanese track. Israel's refusal to withdraw to the 4 June 1967 borders did not meet the minimum conditions placed by the Syrian Arab Republic, consistent with United Nations resolutions. Simply because of a few metres Israel wasted a rare chance for peace. The situation on the Palestinian track, which is the core and crux of the dispute in the region, is no better. At the Camp David summit the Government of Israel proved that it was captive to the extremist wing of its people and that it was not mature enough to take the brave decision of bringing to an end a conflict that has lasted for half a century. Moreover, Israel's insistence on the occupation of East Jerusalem is provocative to the feelings of millions of Muslims and Christians throughout the world. Israel must abide by Security Council resolution 242 (1967), on the basis of which the peace process was launched and which calls for its withdrawal from all Arab lands to the borders of 4 June 1967. Furthermore, the conflict will not come to an end without solving the question of Palestinian refugees, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 194 (III). This leads to the question of Israeli settlements in occupied Arab territories. These settlements are time bombs standing in the way of any resolution to the conflict. Extremist Zionists planted these settlements to block any peaceful solution, in contradiction of numerous General Assembly and Security Council resolutions that explicitly declare them illegitimate. The State of Qatar, declaring its full support of the legitimate Arab demands on the Syrian, Lebanese and Palestinian tracks, hopes that the voice of reason, love and peace will eventually prevail, that a just and lasting peace in the Middle East will be achieved, and that an independent Palestinian state, ruling over all Palestinian national territory with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, will be established. The United States of America, whose efforts in the peace process are appreciated, is called upon more than at any time in the past, to exert pressure on Israel to respond to the challenges of peace and not miss this historic opportunity as a result of narrow, short-lived ambitions; the alternative to the peace process is too dangerous for international peace and security, and could lead us all into a maze whose outcome would be known only to God. The State of Qatar supports attempts made at national reconciliation in our sisterly State, the Sudan, and endorses the efforts of the Sudanese Government in this respect, and hopes that goodwill and sincerity will lead to consensus so that people's efforts will be directed towards development and reconstruction. At the same time it requests that foreign parties refrain from prolonging the crisis at the expense of the brotherly people of the Sudan, who pay the price with illness, hunger and blood. We also support the tireless efforts of the President and the Government of Djibouti to solve the elusive and chronic Somali problem, and thank God 18 that those efforts have been fruitful. Here we extend our congratulations to His Excellency, President Abdikassim Salad Hassan, the elected Somali President. We wish him and his Government every success. We assure him that he will find in the State of Qatar the necessary help and support in order to sail the boat of national reconciliation safely to land. We also hope that our Somali brothers will help treat each other's wounds, put an end to the chaos and destruction that has befallen their country for a decade, and respond to the hopes and aspirations of their people, who dream of security, peace and a life of honour and freedom, like all peoples of the world. This leads us to the entire region of the Horn of Africa, where war, drought and famine have inflicted untold suffering on its people, with whom we have relations of kinship and neighbourhood. We wish them stability and every good, and we hope that their efforts will be directed towards action and construction. The State of Qatar looks closely and with concern at what is plotted against our sisterly State, Indonesia, the most populous Muslim State and one that has a prominent place in the minds of all Muslims. Intrigues are being secretly contrived to dissect this peaceful Muslim State under the pretext of human rights and other means of deception that fool nobody. We emphasize our strong and unreserved support for the sovereignty of Indonesia over all its territories, and for its territorial integrity and national unity. Events in Indonesia constitute a domestic affair, the like of which occurs in many States in the world. The Indonesian Government, God willing, is capable of putting an end to such problems among its citizens, regardless of their race, religion or orientation. We realize too that financial difficulties and poverty are among the main factors of these internal problems. It is hoped that this session, the first in the new millennium, will give us a strong impetus to reflect on our world today with all its disparities embodied in the daily life of hundreds of millions of people. A close scrutiny of the world will reveal a rich, developed North enjoying prosperity, democracy, economic stability and ample opportunities for creativity and innovation, and a poor South, many of whose States try hard to catch up with the march of civilization and progress and utilize all their capabilities for the development of their infrastructures and the advancement of their people. However, other States of the South continue to suffer from war and conflict both between States and among citizens of the same country, thus causing their suffering to increase and their resources to be wasted on acquiring weapons instead of being used for education, health and the building of infrastructures. Since economic factors contribute enormously to the continuation of wars and disputes, it is incumbent upon us to solve the causes of these crises. That can only be achieved with the cooperation of all, particularly the rich States of the North. Foremost among those crises are indebtedness and the accumulation of interest that exhaust the income of many States of the South. We hope that the States of the North and their creditor institutions will respond to the numerous appeals to write off, either wholly or partially, the debts or interest of the poorest countries which strive to upgrade their fragile economies. We must also conduct a comprehensive review of the international banking system by holding an international conference in which all countries of the world participate, with the aim of establishing a wise, fair and just pilot policy for the world economy in the new millennium, taking into consideration the issue of development in third world countries and directing investment and capital towards the establishment of a genuine partnership that promotes such development. Globalization has impacted every region and transformed the world into a small village, no part of which can be separated from the other parts. Therefore, the transfer of technology, especially information and communications technology, must be accompanied by transparent globalization, rather than selective globalization wherein third world countries are no more than markets for the products of developed countries and large corporations. The process of reforming the United Nations attracts the attention of all States, and I have referred to it on other occasions at past sessions. The Secretary- General's efforts are outstanding in this respect. For the realization of an active Organization responding harmoniously to contemporary requirements, its work has to be activated, the number of its employees who drain its resources has to be cut back, and the dynamics of its work, both at Headquarters and in its bodies, organs and offices elsewhere, have to be changed. Moreover, the process of reforming the Security Council requires the Working Group to proceed until it achieves the goal for which it was established. The 19 Working Group has indeed gone a long way in that respect, particularly with regard to the second cluster relating to procedural matters in the work of the Council. As for expanding the Council and increasing its membership, the State of Qatar is committed to the position of the Arab Group and the countries of the Non-Aligned Movement that calls for a minimum increase of up to 26 members, taking into consideration equitable geographical distribution and the fact that the last increase in its membership took place in 1963. We also endorse the continuation of the Working Group, which, God willing, will reach a consensual solution. At the same time we emphasize the right of the Arab world to a permanent seat in any impending increase. A few terms and ideas have recently gained currency, and though they sound good they imply a great threat to States and nations. Danger is not inherent in these terms but is rather a consequence of their interpretation or application. Intervention in humanitarian cases is one of these ideas that can be exploited by the great Powers to justify interference in the internal affairs of States and the violation of their national sovereignty. Promotion of democracies in the world, the code of conduct and good governance are all relative, and if they were to be used according to their present interpretation, the world would run according to a single style of democracy and one culture would prevail. This is so serious that it would eliminate pluralism, which is an enriching factor in the work of the United Nations, since it indicates diversity and difference among peoples and nations. This very same diversity contributes positively to world interests, promotes humanitarian and cultural exchanges and enables each of us to accept other cultures and coexist with them. True democracy is one that is freely chosen by any people for its mode of governance without outside intervention. The year 2001, the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations, may offer us a good opportunity to demonstrate more tolerance and communication among nations for the benefit of humanity. I should like here to refer to the address by His Highness, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the beloved Emir of Qatar, on 5 September 2000 when the dialogue among civilizations initiative was launched, and to His Highness's emphasis on the significance of dialogue and communication as an alternative to dispute and conflict. Peacekeeping forces play a very important role, establishing security and stability in many different regions suffering from conflict and war, and as time passes, the cost of operating these forces rise. At this session the Fifth Committee will discuss the issue of contributions to these forces. We maintain that the Fifth Committee is the best forum for this, but since this process is linked to Members' assessed contributions to the regular budget, we believe that finalizing the scale of assessments first is a reasonable priority. Our delegation will actively take part in the work of that Committee with the aim of reaching a consensus, without which we cannot find a solution to the problem of committing any State to something it cannot meet in the future. We stress that all aspects of the economic situation of each State should be considered, particularly the emerging economies that rely on one source of income and that are subject to market volatility. My country is one of those States. Finally, the State of Qatar firmly believes in the importance of the role of the United Nations in establishing security, stability and peace throughout the world, and it also believes in the importance of respecting the United Nations Charter and its lofty goals, and the need to adhere to the Charter in international relations. We trust and hope that the future will be bright, when all peoples of the globe will realize their goals and aspirations and will positively contribute to the process of building, development and innovation. Allow me to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his work as President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly, during which he continued and concluded the preparation process of the recent Millennium Summit, initiated during the preceding session. Likewise, I extend to the President of the Assembly at the fifty-fifth session, Mr. Harri Holkeri, former Prime Minister of Finland, our congratulations and best wishes for the success of his tenure. We also extend a fraternal welcome to Tuvalu as a new Member of the United Nations. 30 A little over a week ago the United Nations held its Millennium Summit. To be more precise, we held our Millennium Summit. The work of the Secretary- General and of the Member States deserves our praise, for the result of their efforts was wholly positive. We should all congratulate ourselves on that very successful work, but the task assigned to us by the Summit is now in our hands. It should begin with an assessment and careful evaluation of agreements, disagreements and priorities. Above all, we should pay special attention to the statements made by our heads of State and Government, as well as to the oral summary reports by each of the Presidents of the four round tables. Taken as a whole, this constitutes rich background material on which we could, and should, work. One could say that the General Assembly, as a universal and independent body, has been entrusted with a mandate by the highest political leaders of the Member States. Interpreting and carrying out that mandate is now the main objective of our work in the General Assembly. Of course, the Secretary-General's report (A/54/2000), known by the opening words of its title, “We the peoples”, is an essential contribution, widely appreciated at this time of putting the Organization in perspective. For that reason, the Secretary-General deserves our sincere acknowledgement. We can therefore say that never before have we had more authoritative or exact guidelines. As the Secretary-General said in his opening statement, the responsibility for putting those directives into practice is in our hands; in other words, in the non-exclusive framework of the General Assembly. From the very start of our renewed task we must try to identify some central ideas that reflect a general consensus on our point of departure, while acknowledging that neither the Summit nor any similar United Nations meetings will be able to make any arbitrary changes to the items on the world's agenda or alone bring about the alterations that practically all of us view as necessary and inevitable. It is therefore a matter of using the Millennium Summit as a launching platform for the achievement of the common objectives of the international community, whose main quality should be to reflect the basic rights and interests of all its members. We should, then, be as careful in identifying those goals as we are in selecting the procedures and determining the time required to achieve them. In any case, there are some realities that we cannot, and should not, evade. The first is the acknowledgement that the so- called globalization or universalization phenomenon constitutes the inescapable environment to which the human family should adapt, not from a stance of confrontation or resigned acceptance, but in order to be an active part of it. By living within the framework of globalization we will be in a position to direct and channel it, accepting its intrinsic values in its scientific and technological dimension, while conferring upon it the necessary inspiration and political will to control its negative effects on societies that lack the necessary resources to be part of globalization and to benefit from it. It has been said here at the Assembly that we should attempt to make it possible for all States to climb aboard the globalization train. That goal should motivate our individual actions and our cooperation efforts in the immediate future. As was repeatedly emphasized during the Summit, United Nations action of the kind I have described would have an encouraging and positive effect, especially since no other international institution has undertaken that task. Given the universal and all- inclusive nature of globalization, it is appropriate to consider what action the United Nations could take from the perspective of evolution and change of the international system in its three principal areas: first, the institutional political system — the Organization itself and its powers; secondly, the global financial system established by the Bretton Woods Agreements; and, finally, the organization of international trade within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO). With regard to the first, it must be admitted that in the process of reform of the Security Council, to which we have devoted so much effort, no significant progress has been registered recently. It would appear that the international community has not yet sufficiently assimilated its will to change at the institutional level. That admission does not take away from the fact that the reform of the Council is a pending matter and one which, as the round table reports indicated, received particular attention from the heads of State and Government at the Millennium Summit. 31 It seems to us that on this matter we have reached a paradoxical situation. On the one hand, there is practically a consensus on the need to reform the Council so that it can — on the basis of certain principles held very dear by the international community — more adequately reflect current reality, being made more democratic in its spirit, more representative in its structure and more transparent in its functioning. On the other hand, however, some believe that the formula proposed to achieve the goal of expanding the Council — an increase in both permanent and non-permanent members — disregards the very principles that we seek to implement. We have thus responded to the need felt by all for reform of the Council, in order to make it more representative and democratic, with formulas that do not yet appear to reflect the requisite universal spirit of reform. That is why we believe that, while we continue our efforts to reorganize the Security Council, we must also explore alternative solutions avoiding the approaches — perhaps too simplistic — adopted so far, which have not made progress possible, even after eight years of intensive negotiations. New approaches and ideas are needed in the reform of the Council more than in any other problem. Peacekeeping and international security continues to be a core issue giving the United Nations its specific character and, to a certain degree, its reason for being. The Organization's peacekeeping and international security mechanisms, the limits within which they can operate and their modalities have been on our agenda since the founding of the United Nations. They continue to require our attention, because problems of peace and international security manifest themselves in varying and sometimes unexpected ways as the world political situation evolves. The United Nations is now confronted with the worrisome problem of how to achieve its peacekeeping goals with limited resources and inadequate mechanisms. The report on peace operations prepared by a group of experts, known as the Brahimi report and drafted at the request of the Secretary-General, will undoubtedly help us find a way to overcome the difficulties now facing the Organization in this area. Uruguay, since 1952 a traditional contributor to peacekeeping operations, is carefully considering the recommendations contained in the Brahimi report, many of which we deem worthy of our support. In any event, we warmly welcome the initiatives aimed at a more in-depth consideration of what has been termed “humanitarian intervention”. We hope that a detailed and objective examination of this concept by the Organization will enable us to grasp its true scope and implications and to find ways of integrating it harmoniously into the international legal order, without any kind of distortion. The financing of peacekeeping operations requires the prudent management of existing resources and, as with the regular budget, that all Member States fulfil their financial obligations to the Organization, without conditions. Likewise, the institutionalization of the current scale of assessments is vital, perhaps with a few small changes that would not create problems for developing or least developed countries and that would ensure that States shoulder their responsibility according to their real capacity to pay. This is also our position on the regular budget. We cannot accept that, in determining the scale of assessments, simplistic formulas should be used that are based only on isolated economic indicators such as per capita income, which do not reflect the real economic situation of the country and of its population. We cannot overemphasize the link between the question of disarmament and that of development financing. The fact that the majority of violent conflicts occur in the developing sector of the world, in which there are often too many weapons and too few schools, remains a shameful paradox. We must continue to work towards disarmament. That is why my country, Uruguay, supports the convening of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, set to take place next year. Uruguay also supports the efforts of the “New Agenda” countries towards the elimination of nuclear weapons and encourages the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty. As concerns the international financial system — the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank — and its handling of the recent, recurrent crisis situations in the world, shortcomings were noted in its methods of operation. In particular, its failure to anticipate those crises has made clear the need to update and reform the system directly responsible for ensuring global economic governance. In this effort to reorganize the financial institutions and to coordinate 32 their activities with those of the United Nations and its agencies, we should also consider the common aspiration of the majority of the members of the international community to democratize the decision- making processes in those organizations. The close connection between the decisions by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and the social and economic realities of countries, more than justifies this aspiration. Inequality, poverty and debt in the developing world are problems that have been, and continue to be, emphasized in the debates of the Millennium Assembly. These problems require not only ongoing programmes and actions but, above all, a basic sense of solidarity, which does not always characterize our cooperation efforts. In the same vein, two noteworthy ideas were put forward during the Summit that we believe should be considered, because they could offer some guidance in efficiently addressing economic issues. The first is the idea of creating a development council that is neither dependent nor subordinate and that has the authority to take the decisions necessary to adjust and direct complex international financial flows, since the trends and developments in that respect affect the economies of all States. The second is related to international trade. In this regard, the international community is firmly convinced that international trade must be made increasingly open and free. The President of Uruguay, Mr. Jorge Batlle Ibáñez, in his address to the Summit and in the relevant round table, emphasized the indivisible nature of freedom, as a whole that cannot be separated from free trade. As trade is a natural and traditional method of communication among peoples, Member States must not impose protectionist barriers to its free flow, which would delay development and therefore affect the well- being of peoples. This could also lead to serious social problems, which in many cases could spiral out of control. In this way, obstacles to trade, discriminatory trade policies and protectionism could become factors of political instability at the domestic and international levels. This is the position of Uruguay within the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), in the relationship between MERCOSUR and the Andean Community, in the Free Trade Area of the Americas and in the World Trade Organization (WTO). The strong argument to that effect put forward at the Summit must not be disregarded by those Member States that singly or together selectively raise protectionist barriers in order selfishly to defend their own production and participation in the market, denying others what President Batlle has called “our right to create and produce and our right to offer and sell what is produced”. In this regard, I cannot but welcome the initiative of the Government of Italy, announced by its Prime Minister during the Summit, to insist, within international organisms — including within the Group of 8 — on the need for the developed countries to open their markets to the least developed countries by abolishing quotas and tariffs. Nor can the WTO cannot turn a deaf ear to this call. Although it does not play a major role in global financial governance, its regulations affect trade in its broadest sense, and it still counts among its responsibilities, set out at the Uruguay Round and in the Marrakesh agreements, the regulation of trade in agricultural products, which affects many of our countries, particularly those of Latin America and Africa. Today no one could doubt the role of the United Nations in the gradual process of achieving equality in the world. But the United Nations does not bear sole responsibility in this respect; the Member States and Governments do as well. A solid and hopeful future for the international community will depend on our good judgement and integrity. Also at stake is the trust of our peoples and of public opinion. Fortunately, for those of us who practise the democratic creed, that trust is always time- bound and subject to public opinion. Our ability to work within the Organization will determine whether the Millennium Summit that just took place will breathe new life into the United Nations. The world needs to see itself reflected in the institutions it established, with hope and participation, with responsibility and a will to build a fairer, more predictable, more peaceful and more humane society. I therefore believe — and this is merely a suggestion — that it is essential for all of us to ensure that the Assembly is accorded the important role assigned to it in the Charter, even though reality sometimes does not allow for this. We must ensure that 33 the Assembly and the Secretariat establish as soon as possible a working group or a similar mechanism that would follow up on the Millennium Summit and would examine the wealth of ideas put forward by our heads of State to ensure that they can be implemented and put into practice. Only in that way will the Millennium Summit be remembered.   I would like to say, Mr. President, that I take special pleasure in seeing you preside over this Millennium Assembly session. I wish to assure you of my delegation's full support in all your endeavours. As one of the Vice-Presidents of the past session, I want to convey my special appreciation to my colleague and your predecessor, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, Theo-Ben Gurirab. I would also like to extend my gratitude to the Secretary-General for presenting his report “We the Peoples” to the world community. Allow me also to convey my delegation's warm welcome to Tuvalu as a new member of the United Nations. It is both remarkable and profoundly logical that in the beginning of the new millennium high representatives of almost 200 nations have gathered for one sole purpose — to comprehend challenges of the contemporary world. The fact that we all have gathered here, representing all regions of the world, cultures and religions, means that we all share the belief in the value, viability and potential of the United Nations. Heads of State and Government, during the course of the Millennium Summit, have guided us towards strengthening the United Nations, including its central role in peacekeeping and poverty eradication. Our task now is to act upon their guidance. Globalization, the digital revolution and the triumph of free trade have transformed the world into a vibrant world economy. Interdependence within the world economy emphasizes collective problems and solutions. Thus, the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization (WTO) and many other international organizations are indispensable mechanisms in achieving stable peace, in assisting in shaping the course of development, and in ensuring that the world economy provides benefits for all. Never has the world been so well off. Yet, never has it been confronted with so many problems on the global scale. The nature of threats has entirely changed. The phenomena are so complex that they defy easy generalization. These phenomena comprise extreme poverty and marginalization of entire communities; gross violations of human rights; ethnic conflicts and genocide; arms proliferation; terrorism; and environmental degradation. No effort should be spared to free people from dehumanizing conditions of extreme poverty. The goals adopted at the Millennium Summit are challenging. Assistance, new trade arrangements, and debt relief 9 will hardly constitute a panacea, unless necessary and strong commitments to poverty reduction, economic equality, combating the HIV/AIDS pandemic and supporting education are reflected, first and foremost, in national policies of individual States, and concurrently on the agendas of international organizations. Good health, literacy, and education are critical assets for economic development. Human capital, combined with a high level of economic equality, good governance, and abiding by the rule of law can really make a difference. This is the course we strongly uphold if we aim at reducing by half the level of extreme poverty by 2015 and achieving sustainable development. The realities are that most of the economic thinking and ruling is being done within the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization or the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OSCE), and a fully coordinated approach to the problems of peace and development should be sought between these organizations and institutions and the United Nations. We have yet to learn how to manage the spin-offs of globalization and how best to make use of international mechanisms to address new forms of threats. Better yet, prevention is preferable to cure. For really effective prevention, a broader definition of security is vital and must encompass pressing economic and social problems. The root causes of conflicts should be addressed as a fundamental part of efforts to establish secure peace and stability. Should preventative strategies yield no results, the United Nations must have a truly effective peacekeeping capacity at its disposal. Lithuania will support every effort to fix structural deficiencies within the United Nations and adequately to staff and finance relevant departments. Provided the determination, resources, capacity and willingness are available, I believe, humanitarian catastrophes and crises can be averted. Proposals to improve the United Nations peacekeeping capacity and performance, especially those contained in the Brahimi report, have been widely endorsed by our leaders. Now we have to work on it with a view to shifting the historically prevailing conception of peacekeeping as an ad hoc job to one of the core functions of the United Nations. Great challenges to the new international way of containing and resolving ethnic conflicts await in Africa. A prospective strategy could be to encourage and assist regional organizations, especially the Organization of African Unity and the Economic Community of West African States; involve civil society and the business community; and, most notably, enhance the United Nations, especially the Security Council's capacity to act well in advance, before a crisis gets out of hand. Pledges to contribute to a safer world add up to nothing if mounting demands for adequately trained and equipped peacekeepers and civilian policemen, judges and administrators fall on deaf ears. East Timorese, Kosovars and Sierra Leoneans are pinning their hopes on us. Failure to respond to them would mean in the end that we do no more than celebrate our own individual security. Lithuania has always been and remains committed to building collective security. On the international level, Lithuania emphasizes active participation in international organizations and its substantial contribution to peacekeeping efforts, such as its participation in the United Nations standby arrangements system or, from the very beginning of the international engagement in the Balkans, making our civilian policemen and military available to the missions in Bosnia and Kosovo. Moreover, additional commitments will promptly follow as more highly trained policemen and troops become available. In this regard, I wish to voice our strong desire to place a Lithuanian part of the joint Lithuanian-Polish peacekeeping battalion under the United Nations standby arrangements with a view to joining the Stand- by Forces High-Readiness Brigade. On the regional level, we have made membership in alliances of democratic nations — the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization — our top priority. We regard the OSCE principles, including a country's right to choose its own security arrangements, to be of fundamental value to ensuring peace and security. We believe that, by taking this way, we will meet our economic, cultural, social and other concerns and enhance European security as a whole. On the subregional level, we stress practical cooperative efforts to uphold democratic and economic transformation throughout the region. Over the past decade, our engagement with Poland has turned into a close partnership that has already produced remarkable results. Good bilateral relations with the neighbouring states of Latvia and Estonia have grown into a dynamic trilateral Baltic cooperation, which has expanded into a 10 broader Baltic-Nordic cooperation. We also seek to further develop mutually beneficial good-neighbourly relations with Russia. Joint Lithuanian-Russian projects on cooperation with the Kaliningrad region are a good example of our pursuit of a foreign policy of friendly relations, which also fully coincides with the European Union's Northern Dimension policies endorsed at the Feira European Union summit this June. Cooperation requires wisdom and patience. Yet, all too often, guns have been a choice of cure for ethnic strife and social or economic collapse. Vigorous and urgent efforts are needed to curtail the proliferation of small arms. We deem it vital for the 2001 United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects to address critical issues in the field of transparency, legitimate transfers, accountability, enforcement of sanctions and observance of moratoriums. A commitment to the elimination of landmines should now be coupled with an effort towards putting small arms off limits to belligerent causes. Against the background of gains in disarmament, a number of setbacks have made the picture less encouraging. We share the profound concerns aroused by the abundance of weapons of mass destruction and the proliferation of missiles. I fail to see any way to create a safer world other than reducing, eliminating and outlawing weapons of mass destruction. In the wake of the successful outcome of the 2000 Review Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), Lithuania will work with other committed nations to achieve unequivocal commitment to nuclear disarmament. Certain fundamental values are essential to international relations. Such are human responsibility and human rights. At the Millennium Summit, President of Lithuania Valdas Adamkus spoke about his belief that “in the face of a globalized tomorrow, the United Nations will increase the scope of its human- dimension activities. Human rights should become a cornerstone of the emerging world structure”. (A/55/PV.5) The concept of the human dimension must be at the centre of all United Nations activities. If we are to address the root causes of conflict, we have to admit that respect for human rights, the protection of minority rights and the institution of political arrangements in which all groups are represented are vital. For my region, of particular interest is determining how the international community can promote the rights of people coping with the post-communist transition. The limits of human rights applicability are being constantly questioned. The United Nations should move ahead in the search for new and more effective instruments to fend off the challengers of human rights. Persons responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression should be brought to justice. If that is the goal which the international community is after, an effective International Criminal Court should start working as soon as possible. For its part, Lithuania will make good on its commitment to ratify the Rome Statute by the end of this year. Based on the experience of my own country, I wish to stress that increasing the equality of social, economic, educational and political benefits across gender has a positive impact on economic development. These issues have been at the forefront of the agendas of all Lithuanian Governments since regaining independence, which have worked actively to help solve the question of equal rights and other problems which women face. One of our achievements is the adoption of the Law on Equal Opportunities, which is the first law of this kind in Central and Eastern Europe. Being a signatory State to the Second Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, I call for its early entry into force. The attainment of freedom, security and welfare for people is feasible only by embracing the effects of globalization and not defying them. We have a global instrument readily available for that purpose, yet we keep arriving at the same conclusion: we need a United Nations with greater capacity and better performance. A number of measures have been carried out. The outstanding efforts of the Secretary-General cannot be overestimated. Lithuania supports the Secretary- General's greater emphasis on the United Nations as a results-based Organization. We also endorse the stress on better management, mobilization of new resources and new forms of partnership. The Security Council should play its part in this regard. The lessons drawn from the Secretary-General's reports on Srebrenica and Rwanda have to be paid more than lip service. Within the complex of measured designs for revitalizing the United Nations, our efforts to reform the Security Council occupy a prominent place. The Security Council would only win if it acquired a new power and authority base. I would like to reiterate Lithuania's position that the Security Council should be increased, both in permanent and non-permanent membership categories, and that the Eastern European Group should be given one additional non-permanent membership seat. In turn, even with a revitalized Council, cooperation with regional organizations should be strengthened. The reforms, no matter how far-flung, may only remain a partial success as long as the United Nations is not given necessary resources. The Organization needs a sound and predictable financial footing. Therefore, Lithuania strongly supports a comprehensive review of both the regular-budget scale and the scale of assessment for peacekeeping operations. In the latter case, an ad hoc arrangement of 1973 has lost its touch with present day economic realities. We need to adjust the United Nations peacekeeping scale of assessment methodology to better reflect the current economic conditions of all Member States. I hope that the revision will enjoy support by all countries of the United Nations and will be carried out in an expeditious manner. The United Nations symbolizes and guards the humankind hope for a better future. Let's make it happen!Please allow me to share with Mr. Holkeri the joy of his election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. He can rest assured of Nigeria's support and cooperation. May I also express the same sentiment on behalf of the Group of 77. To his predecessor and my colleague, His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, Nigeria and the Group of 77 wish to express our pride in and appreciation of the most distinguished manner in which he discharged his duties as the President of the fifty-fourth session. We are indeed very proud of him. May I also commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the manner in which he has piloted 20 and continues to manage the affairs of the United Nations. I would also like to thank him for his millennium report, which has identified some of the pressing problems and challenges facing mankind. In the past few weeks here at the United Nations a lot of reflection and deep thinking have taken place among world leaders, all in an attempt to more coherently define the future. The end of one millennium and the beginning of another warrant all these efforts to find such a purposeful definition. Fifty- five years ago the United Nations was formed as a global bulwark against armed conflict on a world scale, such as the Second World War. Over the years its mandate of preserving international security has broadened from strictly preventing such armed conflict to cover also fundamental issues of socio-economic security for humanity. For example, in many of the developing countries the United Nations manifests its potential more through the United Nations Children's Fund, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and other agencies than in Security Council resolutions, comparatively speaking. It is also from the activities of these United Nations agencies that the underprivileged sectors of poor countries benefit directly, activities from which these same countries, including those in Africa, have come to imbibe the idealism regarding the United Nations ability to harmonize the totality of progress to the benefit of all human stakeholders. To a great extent this idealism has not been misplaced. In fact, at no other time has the possibility of a global family been more real than now. This prospect must, I am sure, have been very exciting to so many of us and must have been the basis for hailing the United Nations system for its own role in and contribution to these achievements. But as my President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, aptly observed here less than two weeks ago, “Although the world has generally become a safer place to live in, thanks to the contributions of the United Nations, we must all feel deeply worried that the message of hope which the Organization has been spreading is yet to reach the millions of humankind for whom it is intended. For the vast majority of our peoples, grinding poverty has remained a fact of their everyday existence.” (A/55/PV.7) This reality of grinding poverty has raised considerable apprehension in some United Nations Member States about their fate in the new millennium. There is a clear basis for this apprehension, given that the past millennium was, for most of these countries, characterized by extreme poverty, heavy indebtedness, wars of attrition and the resultant mass ordeal and anguish for both their immediate and distant victims, absolute vulnerability to epidemics such as cholera, malaria and typhoid, the rage of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, the scourge of natural disasters, serious technological backwardness and a digital divide between them and the others, and by profound economic decline and infrastructural decay. In the last decade in particular, whatever hopes were raised by some initiatives aimed at mitigating African and third world underdevelopment have dwindled to nothing as the world emerged from the cold war into a more problematic concept called globalization. The globe, which is the symbol or logo of the United Nations, depicts humanity. From the word “globe” has been derived a phenomenon called globalization, which explicitly connotes a world without national borders, with particular reference to commerce, in which humanity is one huge market. Apart from thus unfortunately associating the noble and emotive word “humanity” with the materialism of commerce and the market, globalization automatically raises other questions for three quarters of humanity outside the orbit of industrial competence. In a global economy all the actors in that economy should also be stakeholders. But what stake does Africa have in a global economy? Economically, it is heavily indebted, some of its countries committing up to 55 per cent of gross earnings to debt servicing and payment. What can the little that is left do for the domestic economy? What does an economy that produces virtually nothing in industrial terms have to offer, and, moreover, how can it compete in a global economy? What is the income level of the average African, relative to that of his or her counterparts in many countries of the West, vis-à-vis the capacity to patronize the goods and services which globalization offers? How does globalization facilitate democratic consolidation? How can the core values of liberal democracy, such as the rule of law, the preservation of human rights and good governance, be sustained by a Government that lacks the resources to competently provide a minimum of social service delivery and thus 21 sustain legitimacy and regime credibility? In what ways would a typical regime in Africa be able to contribute its quota to democratic consolidation with the debt overhang, the exchange and interest rate practices in the international financial architecture, the prices offered for raw materials relative to the prices of industrial goods and services, the limited trade access and the conditionalities tied to loans and aid? As a responsible member of the international community and as the chair of the G-77, Nigeria is obliged to draw attention to the context of our present situation. What is clear to me now is that the dream of a global family cannot be attained if the present world architecture of power and the reward system continues. The dialogue of the Organization of African Unity, the Non-Aligned Movement and the G-77 with the G-8 countries has so far shown that a great deal can be achieved from that approach to the issues in question. As President Obasanjo again said in a separate speech, it is imperative for the world to seize this moment to begin to get the future right, since such a solemn moment in the history of mankind as the recent Millennium Summit, may not always present itself. We are talking of dialogue that takes the issues on board in a holistic manner, as opposed to the current practice of abstracting merely one or other manifestation of the system — for example, in the case of wars of attrition and the idea of international humanitarian intervention. The debate so far has brought to the fore the problem of the contradiction between sovereignty and intervention. Of course, nation States, even those on the verge of evaporation, would be sensitive to the word “intervention”. But, more than that, discussion of the issue has brought out the one-dimensional nature of the treatment of some issues or problems in terms of what we include in or exclude from the definition. In this particular case, the debate so far has concentrated on war situations or armed conflicts featuring massive loss of life. What of other situations where loss of life is also of a serious magnitude but not as a result of war or armed conflict? What of the silent genocide occasioned by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, epidemics and natural disasters such as famine, drought, flood, etc.? What about the situation that arises when sanctions lead to deaths on a serious scale? All these should find a place in a proper and systematic discussion of humanitarian intervention aimed at giving succour to those who may be trapped in tragedies other than wars. Similarly, is there no other way by which the world can arrest the proliferation of small arms and light weapons in Africa and other parts of the South? Certainly the world knows about the nature and types of weapons used in the prosecution of these wars, where they are manufactured and by whom, the processes by which they are traded and acquired and the key facilitators of these processes, including national governments and arms merchants. What if the search for solutions focused on these areas? These and many other weighty global issues were discussed at the first ever South Summit held in Havana last April. That Summit was a defining moment for the Group of 77 countries which pondered the challenges of the twenty-first century. In Havana the South resolved to forge a new and meaningful partnership with the industrialized nations. We demanded equal partnership in decision-making that affects the whole of humanity. That was the message the leaders of the South took to the G8 Summit in Okinawa. The outcome of that consultation vividly demonstrates that meaningful partnership is a must for the new century. Certainly the interests of mankind compel a more inclusive participation of all segments of our global community.  At the outset, I would like to warmly congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. I am confident that your vast experience and outstanding record of achievements will guarantee the best results for this session. I wish you every success in this crucial role. I would also like to extend my thanks to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, for the productive way in which he managed the affairs of the fifty-fourth session. I also welcome Tuvalu as the new Member of our Organization. Globalization is definitely the most typical phenomenon of the upcoming turn of the millennium. It is frequently criticized and at other times is accepted uncritically; however, it definitely brings unprecedented progress and, at the same time, problems and challenges. The economic boom also has another aspect in the form of large social differences. The environment often suffers from the industrial boom. Due to new communication technologies, direct human contact is forgotten. I could continue in this vein. The world community also has to face other problems, which are beginning to display a transregional nature — for instance, organized crime, terrorism and emerging armed conflicts. Who is better prepared to tackle all this than the United Nations — the most global institution we have. In my view, the Millennium Summit was the most significant step on this very demanding road. It spelled progress when compared with similar meetings in the past, as this time it dealt with the urgent problems of civilization to a greater extent. Moreover, the Millennium Summit managed to draw the attention of the whole world to problems which the United Nations considers to be of the greatest importance. However, to make progress, a lot still remains to be done. Therefore, I will take the liberty of commencing my contribution precisely with the topic of the reform of the United Nations. The report of the Secretary-General, “We the Peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty- first century” (A/54/2000) displays great promise in this direction. The United Nations reform process must continue. The key point is the reform of the Security Council. The positions and the opinions of Member States on the crucial issues of Security Council reform — the increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members and the issue of the veto right — unfortunately still vary greatly, making it very difficult to achieve a substantive outcome in the near future. The results of the work the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of 2 the Security Council and Other Matters related to the Security Council for the past seven years are not encouraging. Despite this, Slovakia will support the renewal of the Working Group's mandate for the fifty- fifth session of the General Assembly. We consider next year's session of the Working Group to be crucial for the further advancement of the reform process within this forum. Slovakia has already presented its position regarding to the key issues of Security Council reform. We support strengthening its representative character, effectiveness and transparency of the decision-making process and working methods. With regard to the enlargement of the Council, we consider the increase in the number of members in both categories to be justified. However, in our view, the number of members in both categories does not have to necessarily increase simultaneously. The failure to reach an agreement on one category should not prevent the eventual conclusion of an agreement on the enlargement of the other. The total number of members should not exceed 25, in order not to jeopardize the Council's effectiveness and flexibility in immediately reacting to crisis situations. The Group of Eastern European States, whose membership has more than doubled over the past years, should not be omitted from the enlargement of the Security Council. Since its founding, the United Nations, as the world's universal organization, has under the Charter assumed primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. This concept continues to be fundamental to the United Nations and is reinforced every time an international development necessitates a call to our community for rapid peacekeeping response. The evolution in the nature of United Nations peacekeeping operations — from performing traditional military functions to the greater need for multidisciplinary approaches, including interim administration and post-conflict peace-building — along with the significant expansion of regional and international conflicts worldwide and the growing demand for the involvement of the United Nations in their prevention and settlement, puts the United Nations potential in this vital area to a challenging test. The need for peacekeeping has never been greater. However, such international assistance can be effective only if it is based on peacekeeping operations well suited to dealing with all the problems and the needs of the situation to which it is deployed. Therefore, we welcome the report of the expert Panel on United Nations Peace Operations, which we consider to be an important step toward a meaningful reform of United Nations peacekeeping activities. The Brahimi report (A/55/305) presents a serious challenge to various actors involved in meeting the requirements of today's peacekeeping operations. One should agree, and recent experience has confirmed, that good intentions in deploying peacekeeping operations must be supported by clearly defined and achievable mandates. Only an adequate mandate and appropriate resources, both human and financial, can bring success to and strengthen the credibility of the United Nations in its peacekeeping efforts, and not cause more problems. It requires an appropriate and responsible approach by key players, including the Security Council, Member States and the United Nations Secretariat, in acting promptly on their own, as well as effective cooperation to give a rapid and decisive response to conflict situations. Apart from the reform of the Security Council, qualitative improvements must be achieved in modernizing and streamlining the responsible departmental units in the Secretariat to enhance their efficiency and the effectiveness of their output as much as possible. At the same time, Member States must support the ability of the Secretariat to carry out the tasks we ask it to do, since its ability to act depends on the will of Member States to contribute troops and other assistance to potential peacekeeping operations. Member States should provide adequately prepared troops who are able to fulfil the tasks assigned. Simultaneously, peacekeeping operations should, from the very beginning, be provided with adequate financial resources to support the wide array of mandates. It is therefore equally important to ensure that the financial system providing the funding for United Nations peacekeeping is stable, equitable and transparent and that there is a flexible mechanism in place with the ability to stabilize finances for current and future peacekeeping operations. The revision of the United Nations peacekeeping scale of assessment over the next few months will provide a genuine opportunity for the General Assembly to take a critical look at the current method of assessment and, with the emerging 3 consensus of Member States, to take important steps to find a viable solution to this pressing issue. I am pleased to announce today our strong support for revising the financial structure of peacekeeping and our readiness to meet our financial commitment under a reformed peacekeeping scale. We would like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his significant role in the process of United Nations reforms. We welcome his commitment to implement the changes recommended in the Brahimi report for which he is responsible. We should do our part and continue our personnel, material and financial support to United Nations peacekeeping missions. Slovakia has traditionally been participating in peacekeeping operations and, as part of its latest activities, is ready to send an engineering unit to the United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea authorized by the Security Council last Friday. Due to the geopolitical position of Slovakia, we closely follow the situation in the Balkans. We are aware that problems can only be effectively addressed, and crises and tension in the region eliminated, when all the countries concerned are maximally involved; when they are willing to collaborate to search for compromises, and are prepared to overlook historical feuds with a view to developing relations in a complicated region, from both an ethnic and nationalistic perspective. We hope that the elections in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be held in a peaceful atmosphere, and that neither of the parties will resort to violence. It is necessary that the elections abide by the rule of law, and that they be democratic, free and fair. Otherwise, it will be difficult to achieve the basic objective: the stabilization of the situation in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and in the region as a whole. In the area of disarmament, we welcome the consensus achieved at the sixth Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which confirmed commitments to the provisions of the Treaty and its strengthened review process. This positive impulse needs to be efficiently utilized in the process of further implementation of the Treaty. We also welcome the ongoing preparatory process for the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects in 2001. The outcome of the Conference should provide us with clear strategies on how to cope with the issue in its complexity. Slovakia fully supports respect for the norms of international law and the execution of international treaties in good faith, in compliance with the principle of pacta sunt servanda. The harmonization of traditional theories based on the principle of State sovereignty as the basic element of international law with newly developing principles based on global respect and guarantees of fundamental human rights and freedoms will be necessary for the future development of international law. New ideas and concepts should be the subject of extensive discussion and negotiations between States, resulting in a consensus in the international community, as was the case 55 years ago, when the United Nations Charter was adopted. Slovakia supports the early establishment of the International Criminal Court. The results of the negotiations of the Preparatory Commission for the International Criminal Court, especially the adoption of the draft Rules of Procedures and Evidence and the Elements of Crimes by consensus last June, are very encouraging. Slovakia equally supports the work of the United Nations in the field of combating international terrorism. The adoption of the international Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism is the latest fruit of the work in this field. Slovakia will sign the Convention by the end of the year 2000. In facing all the challenges of our era the United Nations must prove its relevance. Slovakia is convinced of the irreplaceable role of the United Nations in a whole range of global issues, the solution of which is practically impossible by Member States alone, on an individual or group basis, or at a regional level. If we want the term globalization to have only positive connotations, the endeavour to tackle the accumulated problems must become a matter of the highest interest to all of us. I believe that this Assembly will contribute to this endeavour.   First of all, Mr. President, permit me to congratulate you on your election to preside over the Assembly's fifty-fifth session, the first of the new millennium. I wish you every success in your presidency, and promise you Chile's full cooperation as you carry out your important duties. I would like to express our admiration and affection for the country you represent, Finland. My appreciation also goes to the praiseworthy efforts of Foreign Minister Gurirab of Namibia during the work of the session that has just come to an end. Likewise, we congratulate the Secretary-General on the leadership he has demonstrated since taking office. We recognize and value his commitment to the vision of a new United Nations for the twenty-first century. We encourage him to continue his efforts to reform the Organization. Globalization is without a doubt the name of our era. Today it is pointless to ask ourselves whether we want to participate in globalization. Isolation is not a realistic option. Chile views globalization as an unquestionable reality and as a font of opportunity that has brought us very valuable benefits. The opening of our economy has enabled us to double the size of our gross domestic product within 10 years, compared with the almost 50 years it took to accomplish the previous doubling. Technological advances have helped to bring us closer to major world centres. Globalization gives rise to opportunities, but it can also deepen the inequities which have always characterized the international system. The United Nations can help to ensure that globalization does not result in exclusion, with the benefits of modernization limited to a lucky few. We must make a firm commitment to developing a new form of international cooperation, focused in particular on broadening access to the knowledge-based economy. The flows of goods, services, capital, information and technology characteristic of globalization tend to bypass domestic regulations and escape the control of Governments. This lack of regulation is generally not counterbalanced by other standards or authorities. It is up to us to fill this vacuum by using all available multilateral forums. As never before in the history of humanity, resolving the daily problems faced by people worldwide depends on collective international decision-making. The challenge confronting the United Nations today is to lend a certain degree of order to globalization; to establish effective institutions and rules, so that globalization will serve to advance the development of our peoples; and to ensure that the fruits of scientific and technological advances benefit all peoples. At the Rio Group's most recent Summit of Heads of State or Government, held in Cartagena, Colombia, the countries that make up this regional political coordination body prepared a joint contribution to the Millennium Summit, reaffirming the central role of the United Nations in this new era on which we are embarking. The past year has given rise to a mixture of hope and concern with regard to peace and security. Chile followed with particular interest the historic talks held between the leaders of North and South Korea, from 13 15 to 15 June of this year. We congratulate the leaders and the peoples of both countries on the progress made at this groundbreaking summit. The conflict in the Middle East has entered what seems to be a decisive stage. We are heartened by the advances made this year and encourage the parties to continue their negotiations in accordance with the established timetables and relevant Security Council resolutions. We are confident that Israel and the Palestinian National Authority will find satisfactory solutions to the remaining issues, particularly those related to Jerusalem. We are also encouraged by Israel's withdrawal from southern Lebanon. We support the Security Council's decisions establishing a massive humanitarian programme for Iraq under the 'oil-for-food' formula, and we favour an ongoing evaluation of that programme. We urge the Iraqi Government to cooperate effectively with the new inspection agency the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission whose work we deem particularly important. We have followed closely developments in the Balkans. The seeds of intolerance and 'ethnic cleansing' are still present in the region. Chile views with fear the possibility of a new Balkan conflict. Only full respect for democracy and human rights can bring about peace in the region. We are concerned by the conflicts in Africa. We are hopeful as to the significant mediating role played by regional entities such as the Organization for African Unity, especially in the Ethiopia-Eritrea dispute, and the Southern African Development Community. We hope that these efforts, along with those of the United Nations, can bring about peace, allowing the continent to fully develop its enormous potential. We are pleased to note that the Security Council has directly addressed the scourge of HIV/AIDS in Africa, designating it as an international security issue requiring urgent action. We hope that initiatives will be adopted to effectively combat this problem, which casts an even greater shadow over the future of the continent than the current armed conflicts. We view with concern the difficulties surrounding the upcoming referendum in the Western Sahara. Chile would like to see the elections take place as soon as possible, on the basis of a free and secret ballot and adequate voter information. We are concerned about the obstacles that are hindering this undertaking. Although post-cold-war hopes for a world free of nuclear weapons in the near future have been tempered, that goal remains fully valid. I have the honour to report than on 12 July, Chile deposited its instrument of ratification for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty the sixteenth country to do so. We call upon all nations to ratify this Treaty as soon as possible in order to reach the quorum of 44 countries necessary for its entry into force. In our information-based society, the problems experienced by any one country affect the world community as a whole. No state can shirk its the responsibility to promote peaceful coexistence within and among nations. From the ethical standpoint of our common humanity, we have viewed with interest the development of the concept of humanitarian intervention. Chile continues to abide by the principles of non-intervention and the self-determination of peoples. But these principles must be linked to other principles of equal or higher priority, which have emerged prominently since the end of the cold war. We cannot remain impassive in the face of the humanitarian catastrophes caused by great conflicts. Thus, we propose that in specific cases, and in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, concerted multilateral action be taken to provide rapid assistance to those who are suffering. Chile is also an enthusiastic participant in the Human Security Network, in response to an initiative put forward by Canada and Norway. Chile considers it an ethical and political imperative of the greatest urgency to expand its participation in the United Nations peacekeeping forces. Since 1999, we have developed an internal legal framework that is in closer harmony with international requirements for participation in these operations. Those legal modifications have enabled us to participate in the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, beginning in February of this year. My country is also willing to discuss a new payment scale for the financing of United Nations peacekeeping operations. We believe that this scale must be adjusted to reflect the current financial situation of Member States. 16 We cannot fail to mention the process of Security Council reform. While some progress has been noted in discussions of the Council's methods of work and of the degree of transparency required by this body, we note that there have been few, if any, advances toward the expansion of its membership. Chile feels a certain dismay and fatigue at the lack of progress, which is the result of positions that appear irreconcilable. The issue of the veto further complicates this sensitive subject. Until we seriously address the question of limiting the veto with a view to its ultimate abolishment, we doubt that the discussions undertaken by the Assembly's Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters related to the Security Council will bear fruit. Globalization is not limited to the economic sphere. It also involves the universalization of values and principles of our common humanity, and the strengthening of the rights of the individual, which have increasingly become subjects addressed by international law. The absence of democracy and good governance, and the people's lack of a voice and participation in public affairs in States Members of the Organization are of concern to us all. The United Nations exists for individuals, not for those who govern. Under the imperative of putting people at the centre of all our efforts, we must support and promote human rights and democratic processes. Chile was among the countries that worked to convene the Towards a Community of Democracies conference held at Warsaw, Poland, last June. More than 100 United Nations Member nations participated in that gathering and endorsed its final declaration. We are convinced that, as time passes, the community of democracies will be an increasingly potent moral force within the United Nations, provided that it maintains its high standards and requirements. Democracy is based on justice, both national and universal. Chile enthusiastically supports the establishment of an International Criminal Court, and hopes that all countries will ratify its statute. Establishing a permanent body to exercise criminal jurisdiction over those accused of crimes that fall within its purview will discourage the irregular domestic proceedings which have allowed such individuals to enjoy impunity, as well as limiting jurisdictional disputes among countries. At the World Summit for Social Development, held at Copenhagen in 1995, heads of State or Government met for the first time in the history of the United Nations to declare with force and clarity that the chief responsibility of our societies is to improve the quality of life of our populations, particularly for their most marginalized and dispossessed members. This year, in a special session, the Assembly reviewed the progress made towards fulfilling the Summit's commitments and launched new initiatives on their genuine implementation. That was an important step in the quest to better humanize the process of globalization. We must continue to incorporate the objectives of the social Summit into our national and multilateral policies. In the social sphere, the United Nations has recognized the vital need to promote gender equality. Chile has worked together with our regional neighbours in Latin America and the Caribbean to reaffirm the principles and proposals of the Fourth World Conference on Women. We have renewed our commitment to the advancement of women, and have developed a new plan to equalize opportunities for men and for women. A concrete demonstration of that commitment is the fact that about one third of President Lagos Escobar's cabinet members are women. We reiterate Chile's strong support for preparations for the General Assembly's 2001 special session to follow up the World Summit for Children. We also attribute special significance to the concern of the United Nations for the rights and welfare of indigenous populations and of the elderly. Chile has volunteered to host the regional preparatory meeting for the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance. We aim to contribute to the regional consensus in that area, confirming our very firm commitment to tolerance and respect for diversity. Environmental protection is an issue that crosses national borders and has become a global concern, driven in part by an emerging international civil society. Here, international cooperation, under the auspices of the United Nations, continues to be an urgent necessity. The United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio de Janeiro, 17 laid the foundations for agreements on climate change, forest conservation and biodiversity. It is very important that we fulfil and gradually expand those commitments with new agreements and protocols ensuring the management, protection and conservation of our planet's resources. This session, as well as the Rio + 10 event which will take place in 2002, must continue to spur commitment to a new ethic of environmental conservation. We are witnessing the globalization of financial markets, which significantly affect capital, currency and credit flows, as well as the economies of all of nations. As recent experience demonstrates, a financial crisis in one corner of the world can rapidly trigger a domino effect, spreading the crisis even to faraway nations with no responsibility for or control over the causes of the original disturbance. It is a great injustice that countries that have been prudent and responsible in the management of their domestic economies can be affected by problems with which they had nothing to do. It is urgent for us to find ways to impose order and standards of good management on the international world. This does not mean obstructing international capital flows, but rather establishing an appropriate international framework to address the problems they may cause. Chile has enthusiastically supported the international community's progress towards free trade through deregulation and the elimination of protectionist measures and barriers. The failure of the 1999 Seattle World Trade Organization (WTO) conference was unfortunate. But let us be frank: that failure was not brought about by civil-society demonstrations, but by the lack of agreement among the world's leading commercial Powers. Chile continues to believe in the urgent necessity of initiating a new round of multilateral trade negotiations. The United Nations must play a key role in bringing about substantive improvements in the management of commercial, monetary and financial systems, so that their operations will take into account the needs of all countries. The Economic and Social Council has done commendable work to coordinate United Nations activities with those of the Bretton Woods institutions. But the General Assembly too has a critical role to play in this area. The decision to hold a High-level International and Intergovernmental Event on Financing for Development in 2001 was of groundbreaking significance, and we must resolve to carry forward the commitments expressed at the Millennium Summit to ensure the success of that event. That would lead to a new phase in North-South relations, since the political legitimacy arising from a broad multilateral consensus will allow us to design a new financial architecture and a system of international trade and exchange that reflect the legitimate interests of all the world's peoples. My country believes that official development assistance is still necessary to promote the development of many countries and regions. A globalized world cannot neglect the principle of solidarity, which is an idea so central to the United Nations tradition. In the same spirit, international assistance must be provided to relieve the distressing conditions of many countries burdened with unsustainable debt, so that they can meet the challenges of development. This year Chile began a new six-year political term, under fully democratic conditions. Our country is in complete harmony with the international community. We possess a vibrant civil society, which made its own contributions to our preparation for the Millennium Summit. Human rights and the rule of law are respected in Chile. Our courts impart justice with rigour and a sense of responsibility. We enjoy a vigorous and open economy, and we have resolved to continue reducing inequalities in our country. We reach out to the world from a firm foundation in our own region, Latin America. We are strengthening our multilateral policies, based on open regionalism and on cooperation with countries with similar criteria throughout the world. We are confident that this General Assembly session, dedicated to the millennium, will be recorded as the one in which we began to address the great challenge of our time: to give order to the forces of globalization and promote the extension of its benefits to an ever-increasing number of the inhabitants of our planet. You can rest assured, Mr. President, that Chile's delegation will lend its full support to meeting this challenge.My country is pleased at the election of Mr. Harri Holkeri to preside over the work of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. We are certain that, with his talent, ability and experience, the efforts of this extremely important Assembly session will be highly productive. My delegation would also like to extend its recognition to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab for his outstanding work as President of the Assembly at the session that has just concluded. Last Friday, during the Millennium Summit, the leader of the Mexican nation, Ernesto Zedillo, stated his personal commitment and that of the Mexican people to the values and principles that sustain the activities of our Organization. Today, through me, the Mexican Government renews its willingness to continue working and participating constructively to strengthen the United Nations, the reason for those historic meetings. We will do this guided by our traditional policy in the multilateral arena: by encouraging dialogue, consensus, and unrestricted respect for international law. We will do this convinced, as well, that we must make good use of this opportunity to give renewed impetus to the United Nations, so that it can progress in solving the challenges that we confront, and can fulfil the goal of building, in this new century, a safer, more just and equal world for all. As the President of Mexico stated, we will do it confident that we Mexicans have the necessary foundation to do our share in achieving the targets contained in the report of the Secretary-General and the Millennium Declaration. My country is convinced that the practice of democracy is indispensable for the development of nations and to guarantee respect for individual freedoms. But we are also sure that democracy is sustained by the sovereign will of its citizens and is, therefore, a domestic process that cannot be imposed from the outside, although, without a doubt, it can and must be nourished by international dialogue between countries and by the cooperation that can be provided by the United Nations. Mexico is also convinced that, just as the predominance of democracy within the membership of our Organization is imperative, it is essential that relations between nations follow democratic practices as well, and that these, in turn, be reflected in organizations such as the United Nations that we, the peoples of the world, have created to organize our coexistence. Today we find ourselves with an extraordinary opportunity to advance in that direction: to cover further ground in the democratization of our Organization; to achieve a level of democratization that allows the United Nations to successfully fulfil the mission with which we entrusted it in San Francisco, the validity of which we seek to renew today, a level of democratization that reinforces the legitimacy of our Organization and invigorates its initiatives, a level of democratization that supports the domestic processes that many of our countries are undertaking and will consequently be enriched by them. Mexico has stated on various occasions that strengthening the General Assembly, the international community's most representative universal forum, is indispensable to guarantee the full democratization of the United Nations. We have also asserted that it is necessary to modify the structure and operation of the Security Council, so that it can fully shoulder its responsibilities in the maintenance of peace and international security. It is for this reason that my country has repeatedly proposed that we undertake a profound reform of the Security Council; a reform that is not limited to modifications of its composition; a reform that also considers the Council's working methods and decision-making process; a reform that allows that important organ of the United Nations to reflect the plurality and diversity of our Organization; a reform that takes into account the transformations of the political landscape in recent times; a reform that does not lead to the creation of new centres of power and privilege; a reform that regulates and limits the scope of the veto, avoiding its abuse or selective application; a reform that institutionalizes the relationship between the Security Council and the General Assembly so that their links, contacts and exchanges of information are clearly regulated; in short, a reform that guarantees that the Security Council's decisions have the legitimacy that can come only from the universal assent of the General Assembly. 30 Based precisely on this unwavering faith in the universality of international law, which Mexico fully shares, my country has engaged in its most important battles in this world Organization. Mexico has always been ready to participate in codifying international law, but we have continually insisted that progress along this path should involve all of the countries that make up the community of nations. This is the only guarantee for preserving legality and for ensuring cordial, constructive and mutually beneficial relations between all of us. The humanitarian crises in Kosovo, East Timor and Sierra Leone, to refer to only a few recent cases, have made us reflect on the scope of and limits to current international law. These crises have made us see that it is imperative to find a balance between the urgent need to respond adequately to humanitarian emergencies and the need to respect the sovereign integrity of all States. These crises, in short, have alerted us to the need to transform ourselves into a true assembly that analyses and proposes new paths, and they have alerted us to what holds us back from becoming an authentic forum where different positions are heard and where answers that realistically reflect the possible consensuses are found. We must therefore move forward and begin a process of further codifying our international law; a process based on the sovereign equality of States as a living reality, not just a theoretical principle; a process in which the weak and the strong, the rich and the poor, and the small and the large can express themselves openly. A process that clearly establishes the rules of the game. A process that enshrines democracy as the only way in which to reach truly legitimate agreements. Because we believe in these democratic values, Mexico has always opposed the legitimization, in practice, of any type of interference, especially when it is based on unilateral decisions or the decisions of a small group of countries. To the contrary, we have reiterated that the United Nations must be provided with a modern political structure that permits it to confront the new challenges to international peace and security brought by the end of the cold war. For this reason, we have insisted on the need to begin, as soon as possible, a broad process of consultation; a process that is absolutely democratic; a process that allows for the discernment of the mood of our community of nations in order to respond correctly and in timely fashion to humanitarian crises without weakening the Organization by doing so. I call upon the President of the General Assembly to formally begin, as soon as possible, this broad process of consultation that will allow us to reflect together on this issue of crucial importance for the United Nations. Mexico stands ready to continue contributing to the ongoing process of codifying international law to which I have referred. We will do so with the same confidence with which, in recent years, we have adhered to a significant number of international instruments proposed by this, our most important world Organization. We will do so with the same will with which we Mexicans have committed ourselves to modifying our national legislation in order to comply with the obligations that derive from those instruments. Such is our trust in international law and its advancement. With this trust, only a few days ago my country signed the Statute of the International Criminal Court, as well as the Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. With this trust we ratified, this year, the Convention on the Status of Refugees and its Protocol, as well as the Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons. With this trust, last week Mexico deposited its ratification instrument for the Kyoto Protocol. Some months ago, we did the same with regard to the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. With that same trust, Mexico continues its fight to achieve the total elimination of nuclear weapons and tests, and reiterates the call made last April, by the group of countries, including Mexico, that are part of the new agenda for disarmament initiative, for the nuclear Powers to commit themselves to the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals. Future generations deserve a world free of nuclear weapons. They deserve a world that is also free from the uncontrolled manufacture and trafficking of conventional arms. They deserve, without a doubt, a world where anti-personnel landmines cease to claim thousands of innocent lives. Our commitment to the protection and preservation of the human race extends also to 31 combating the pandemics of our time. Today, a fatal disease, AIDS, threatens to cut off the existence of millions of beings on the planet. This is why only two days ago, the women Secretaries and Ministers for Foreign Affairs of 13 countries sent a letter to the Secretary-General in support of his call to stop and reverse the spread of AIDS by 2015 and to provide special assistance to children orphaned by this scourge. I want to renew the appeal of our 13 nations to all the Members of the United Nations to support the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and to resolutely launch the common efforts that are necessary to fight this global scourge. As is well said in the report of the Secretary- General and in the Declaration of the Millennium Summit, the protection of our common environment, the fight against transnational organized crime, the promotion of human rights, attention to vulnerable individuals, including children, the fight for disarmament, and international aid to respond to the demands of the least developed countries these are the foundation for allowing the people of the world to live not only free of fear and misery, but also with hope. These are also the challenges that our Organization and its Members must respond to, by consolidating an international architecture that is sustained by democracy and not by the concentration of power; an international architecture based on respect for international law, and not on unilateral decisions; an international architecture that encourages the universal character of our community and not selfish individualism; in short, an international architecture that emphasizes solidarity and cooperation as the values that give sustenance and permanence to the Organization.On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname, I would like first of all to join previous speakers in extending my congratulations to Mr. Harri Holkeri on his assumption of the presidency of the fifty-fifth Millennium session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the outstanding and fruitful way in which he guided the work of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. My delegation wishes to express its deep appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his 21 continuing and tireless efforts in steering the United Nations through the uncharted waters of world affairs while adapting it to the new global forces of change. We welcome Tuvalu into the family of nations, and the Republic of Suriname looks forward to working together with it in implementing the principles and goals of the Organization. This Millennium Assembly is a unique opportunity to take stock of, and to reflect on, recent experiences with the phenomenon of globalization, which continues to dominate developments in the economic, political and cultural field at both the national and international levels, affecting the daily lives of millions of people, their institutions and relations between States. We recognize that while globalization can be a powerful and dynamic force in the promotion of economic growth and development, it also poses risks and new challenges to individuals and nations alike. The fact of the matter is that globalization has generated new economic disparities, as its benefits remain highly concentrated in only a few countries. This has brought about increased vulnerability and economic instability, in particular to the least developed countries and to the structurally weak and vulnerable small States. Many of these countries have difficulty in coping with the increased competition arising from trade liberalization and lack the capacity to take advantage of the new opportunities brought about by globalization, which in turn puts them at risk of marginalization and even complete exclusion the so-called big losers of globalization. It is for this reason that, during the recently held Millennium Summit, consensus was reached at the highest political level that globalization must be considered in the wider context of development and of our shared responsibility to ensure that, through a more inclusive, transparent and participatory decision- making process in international economic issues, the benefits of globalization are accessible to all on an equal footing. We also concur with the view that the United Nations, as the most universal forum, has a crucial and central role to play in forging understanding and consensus among its Members, so as to create more opportunities for all, and indeed not to leave billions of people in a state of poverty and exclusion. We look forward to concrete actions to be taken in this regard. All nations have a collective responsibility to address current global concerns, such as underdevelopment and acute poverty, the growing inequality within and among nations, violent conflicts and civil wars which cause untold human suffering in the South and are fuelled by the global arms bazaar, environmental degradation, refugees and migration, HIV/AIDS and other threats to public health, bridging the digital divide and the emergence of global criminal conglomerates. In the context of the aforementioned, we welcome the initiative taken by the Secretary-General to create a digital task force with the aim of bridging the digital divide. In order not to lag behind in our present era dominated by the advances in information and communications technology, the President of the Republic of Suriname launched a national information and communications technology initiative in his inaugural statement on 12 August of this year in order to catch the Internet Express without delay and to promote national access to information and communication services at all levels of education and all areas of the public domain. We welcome the contribution of the Kingdom of Norway to assist the small island developing States (SIDS) in this regard. Last April, the developing countries met in Havana and, in a renewed spirit of cooperation, solidarity and shared responsibilities, they agreed to close ranks and implement an action-oriented programme to assist the developing countries in bridging the gap with their more affluent partners from the North. Although essential in contributing to development, South-South cooperation is not a replacement for North-South cooperation; nevertheless better relations between the members of the South will contribute to better relations between the South and the North. Unfortunately, globalization and trade liberalization have not created the necessary conditions to accelerate growth and development for small and vulnerable States. On the contrary, these countries have been further marginalized in world economic affairs and are threatened by the provisions of the World Trade Organization (WTO), demanding an end to the special and preferential arrangements, enacted solely to level the playing field. We, therefore, reiterate our request 22 for the international community's early adoption of a vulnerability index so as to consider assistance to these countries, based on their specific vulnerabilities and not solely on their gross domestic product. We are pleased that an appeal was made in the Millennium Declaration to enact such a vulnerability index. Recently, the 12 Presidents of South America assembled in Brasilia to discuss daunting issues that are common to the region and to pledge their political will and support as a firm foundation for enhanced cooperation among their respective countries. We thank the Government of Brazil for so gracefully hosting this Summit. The Declaration coming out of that meeting, in letter and spirit, underlined the necessity of closer cooperation between our countries in order to be able to adapt successfully to the demands of globalization. At the dawn of the new millennium, the Government of Suriname considers it of crucial importance that Member States achieve tangible results in the areas of disarmament, arms control and non- proliferation of nuclear weapons in maintaining peace and reinforcing international security for all States. The reform of the Security Council remains crucial for our efforts to make the United Nations more effective in dealing with global peace and security issues. So far, however, reaching consensus on how to restructure and reform this important body has eluded us as a consequence of differences among the Member States with respect to the scope and nature of the needed changes. My Government reiterates its view that the membership of this Council should be increased with members from both the developed and developing world and considers in this context the proposals presented by the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) as instrumental. We also believe that agreement must be reached on defining the relationship between the Council and other principal organs of the United Nations, such as the Economic and Social Council and the General Assembly. We are of the opinion that the Security Council should focus its actions on creating a peaceful security environment, while the temporarily established United Nations involvements related to socio-economic and political development in affected countries should be coordinated by the Economic and Social Council and/or the General Assembly. Such an arrangement, based on the Charter provisions, will undoubtedly contribute to greater effectiveness and efficiency of the United Nations, while limiting the influence of national policy considerations on its activities. Let us use the momentum created by the Millennium Summit to strengthen our resolve in reaching a consensus on this matter as soon as possible. The Government of Suriname wishes to underscore the importance of the United Nations as the universal forum to enable Member States to reach consensus on issues related to peace, security, development and international economic cooperation. We wish to express our gratitude to the Kingdom of the Netherlands for resuming bilateral cooperation between our countries and to thank them for their support in this area. The United Nations Charter embodies lofty and noble principles that remain valid today, as was reiterated by all the Heads of State and Government at the recently held Millennium Summit. In order to make the United Nations a more effective instrument in the hands of the world's people, we must continue to be guided by these principles in conducting national and international affairs. In this regard, it is essential to honour the commitment to providing the necessary financial means in a timely and predictable manner in order to enable the United Nations to fulfil its mandates. Finally, as we enter the new millennium in an emerging global village, we must bear in mind that we are one human family in all our diversity, living in one common homeland, the planet Earth, and that we must therefore cooperate in creating a more just, more sustainable and more peaceful world in which everyone will live in a clean environment with a fair distribution of the Earth's resources indeed, as the Secretary- General has called for in his millennium report, a world free from want, free from fear, that does not compromise the ability of our planet to provide for the needs of our children and for future generations. My country stands ready to play its part and to contribute to this, our common endeavour.It gives me great pleasure to address the Assembly under the leadership of Mr. Harri Holkeri. I offer him our heartiest congratulations on his election to preside over this first session of the new millennium and assure him of the total support and cooperation of my delegation. We would like also to thank Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, the Foreign Minister of Namibia, for the excellent manner in which he presided over the work of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly. This year again, we wish to compliment the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his remarkable leadership in the conduct of the work of the United Nations. We pay special tribute also to the President of the fifty- fourth session of the General Assembly and to the Secretary-General for their imaginative and tireless efforts in achieving the resounding success of the Millennium Summit, held here just a few weeks ago. We also wish to welcome Tuvalu as the newest Member of the United Nations family. During that historic Summit — the largest gathering of heads of State or Government the world has ever seen — the relevance and importance of the United Nations in a global society was emphasized. World leaders pledged most prominently their commitment to ensuring that the United Nations adapts to the new era and strengthens its capacity to deal with the challenges of maintaining peace and security, eliminating poverty and promoting development and progress for the benefit of all humanity. 13 Since its inception, the United Nations has been a beacon of hope to mankind for a more secure and prosperous world. The recently adopted Millennium Declaration provides fresh impetus to the United Nations to rededicate itself to the fulfilment of the lofty ideals of our Organization, namely to uphold world peace and security and promote cooperation and development in all areas of human endeavour. The maintenance of world peace and security remains the biggest challenge for our Organization. The continued existence of nuclear arsenals and the threat of a nuclear disaster represent a major impediment to the maintenance of peace and security. Following the end of the cold war, the feeling of insecurity created by nuclear militarization has diminished, but the international community's aspiration to global disarmament and the complete elimination of weapons of mass destruction within a defined time-frame has eluded us. We welcome all the efforts the international community is making towards achieving universal acceptance of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Yet more than 30,000 nuclear weapons are deployed around the world, including weapons that are still maintained in a high state of readiness. The risk that nuclear weapons may explode, whether by design or by accident, is ever growing. My delegation is convinced that the early convening of an international conference on nuclear disarmament to address issues of global denuclearization, including the total elimination of all existing nuclear weapons within a specific time-frame, is of critical importance. Such a conference would allow all States, most importantly those possessing nuclear capabilities and which do not fall under the purview of the NPT and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), to voice their concerns and contribute substantially towards achieving a world free of nuclear weapons. This is a debt we owe to generations yet unborn. The role of the Security Council in the crucial area of international peace and security is evident. However, this central organ of our Organization will be rendered even more effective if it is further strengthened to make it respond positively to the emerging new realities which the new millennium is bound to confront. Members of the United Nations attach great importance to the need for reform of this supreme body. It is to be noted that under the existing provisions of the Charter, which date back from a time when two thirds of the Members of the United Nations were still under colonial rule, a handful of States on the Security Council have the power to make decisions that bind the whole membership. Such a mode of operation is completely out of tune with today's realities, and, for this institution to retain its credibility, it should undergo a comprehensive reform, taking into consideration proper and equitable geographical representation. In this regard, Mauritius supports the position of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) on the expansion and representativity of the Security Council, and we look forward to an early conclusion of the work of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council. We support an increase in the membership of the Security Council, and we are in favour of making the Council an effective representative body that can act in the interests of humankind at large at all times. The meeting of the Security Council at the level of heads of State during the Millennium Summit was an unparalleled opportunity for the 15 Members to discuss, at the highest level, how to make peacekeeping operations more responsive. We are all aware that deployment of United Nations troops in conflict situations is seen as the last chance for the restoration of peace and, in this venture, we simply cannot afford to fail. Therefore, the discussions that took place at the summit level of the Security Council need to be seriously pursued so that the future orientation of peacekeeping operations may be effected on a sounder basis. In this respect, we welcome the proposals for improving the United Nation peacekeeping performance, as contained in the report of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations — the Brahimi Report — and we look forward to their speedy implementation. It is indeed a sad reflection that at the dawn of a new century, several African nations, such as Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Burundi, Somalia and the Comoros remain trapped in civil conflicts with disastrous consequences for millions of people on the continent and in the 14 subregion. At the regional level, the OAU, as well as leaders of the subregions concerned, have spared no efforts to address each of these conflicts, but we need to realize that no great success has been achieved so far. The intransigence of the main protagonists involved continues to remain the stumbling block towards the peaceful resolution of conflicts in Africa. The involvement of the United Nations in these conflicts has unfortunately also met with little success. We need to be imaginative, and we need to explore, with the civil society in each country in conflict, ways and means to convincingly establish that the fruits of peace are achievable. We need to look at the permanence of our interests, and these are based in peace and stability. We also note with great concern that, despite all the efforts and steps taken by the OAU for a speedy return to constitutional order in the Comoros, the Anjouanese separatists and the military leadership in Moroni have signed the Fomboni Declaration in defiance of the OAU and the international community. We urge the international community to refrain from lending any support to the Fomboni Joint Declaration which, we believe, will undermine the unity and territorial integrity of the Comoros. Indeed, it is unacceptable that the future of the archipelago of the Comoros be compromised by two individuals who are non-elected and do not represent the aspirations of the population. We reiterate our support to the OAU in its ongoing efforts aimed at resolving the crisis, in accordance with the provisions of the Antananarivo accord, which remains the most viable framework for a lasting, consensual and durable solution to the crisis. We call on the military regime and the separatists in Anjouan to cooperate with the OAU so as to achieve an early resolution of the crisis. We welcome the signing of the Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities between Ethiopia and Eritrea this year. This is a positive step, and we urge the OAU, the United Nations and other States to continue support for these two countries to take the next steps to conclude a settlement for lasting peace. Our region deserves no less. While, inevitably, the international community, through the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations, must continue to do all it can to end the existing conflicts and prevent new ones, there is an important aspect of civil conflict that cannot be overlooked any longer. It has been established beyond doubt that civil conflicts such as those in Angola and Sierra Leone have resulted from personal ambition or greed for private enrichment on the part of powerful individuals, rather than in pursuit of a legitimate cause and struggle for the common good. In pursuit of their sinister designs, these individuals wage long wars on and against their own people and, acting with impunity, inflict untold suffering on the masses, including women, the elderly and children, cause refugee problems within and outside their national frontiers, and retard development and progress of their countries We believe that such dangerous persons should not only be condemned and stopped as early as possible from pursuing their unpatriotic designs, but also should be made to answer to their people and to the international community for the crimes they commit. The proposed International Criminal Court should serve as the tribunal of the international community to try and punish such individuals and, the sooner it starts functioning, the better it will be for humanity at large. The International Criminal Court will not only be a deterrent for people who engage in heinous crimes but will also be an important instrument for the maintenance of international peace and security. Unless such a step is taken, the world will continue to face similar tragedies, and the perpetrators of such tragedies will go unpunished. At long last, we have seen a glimmer of hope for the suffering people of Somalia. We congratulate the leaders of the Intergovernmental Authority for Development (IGAD) for their initiative in putting together a peace and reconciliation process that will allow for the establishment of a representative government to take charge of the affairs of the country. We appeal to all factions in Somalia to come together and to take part in this new initiative, with a view to stopping the misery that the Somali people have endured for too long. Important steps have been made this year towards peace in the Middle East. We congratulate President Arafat and Prime Minister Barak for the courage they demonstrated recently during the difficult negotiations in Camp David under the guidance of President Clinton. We believe that, having reached such a crucial stage of the negotiations, President Arafat and Prime Minister Barak must meet the daunting challenge of taking further steps forward to reach a final agreement. 15 We are confident that both leaders have the capacity to bridge the gaps and reach a mutually acceptable and satisfactory agreement. We appreciate that the issues outstanding in the path of such an agreement are delicate, but we are confident that the leaders of the region will respond to the ardent wish of peoples around the world for a peaceful Middle East. It may sound like an anachronism, but it has happened just a few months ago in the Pacific region — namely in Fiji and in the Solomon Islands — that small bands of thugs have overturned democratically elected Governments. In the case of Fiji, Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry together with his whole Cabinet of Ministers, was held hostage for as long as 56 days, in a struggle for political power. The Prime Minister was set free only after he finally conceded that his Government would resign. The international community watched helplessly as the tragic situation unfolded in Fiji. The fact that this is not the first time that a democratically elected Government is overthrown by unorthodox and violent means makes the situation all the more serious and calls for the immediate attention of the international community. Mauritius condemns unreservedly all attempts by any group, anywhere, to thwart the will of the people by force. I am reminded here of the statement of the United Nations Secretary-General at the opening of the OAU Summit in Lomé this year when, applauding the OAU decision to exclude Governments that have come to power by unconstitutional means from participating in OAU meetings, he expressed the wish that some day the United Nations also would take a similar decision. The time has come for us to seriously consider such avenues in order to send a clear signal to people who are bent upon perpetrating constitutional violations in total disregard of the will of the people. Mauritius remains fully committed to the respect and promotion of human rights, democracy, good governance and the rule of law. These principles are enshrined in our Constitution. With regard to human rights, our commitment goes far beyond our national borders, as reflected in our membership in various United Nations committees, where we play an active role. Multi-party, free and fair elections constitute core traditions jealously cherished by the people of Mauritius. In the exercise of our valued democratic rights, on 11 September last, just 10 days ago. the people of Mauritius, for the seventh time since our independence in 1968, elected a new Government. This Government remains committed to supporting strongly, at the national, regional and international levels, the principles I have mentioned earlier. Since we met in September last, we have witnessed several acts of terrorism in various parts of the world endangering the lives of numerous innocent people. The hijacking of an Indian Airlines jet, the kidnapping of unsuspecting tourists from a Malaysian holiday resort and bomb attacks in some capitals are grim reminders of the dangers we face at the hands of unscrupulous and heartless fanatics. We condemn all acts of terrorism and call on the international community to take concerted action to deal with this problem. For our part, Mauritius stands prepared to play a significant role in the United Nations and its various organs to combat all such acts which pose a threat to international peace and security. I had some remarks on people-centred development, debt and globalization. I refer delegates to the text that will be circulated. I will now talk about regional cooperation. Mauritius attaches great priority to global partnership in addressing the key issues of poverty alleviation, achieving sustainable growth and development, and peace and security. We believe that regional cooperation continues to be the inevitable route towards strengthening international partnership and cooperation. Regional cooperation not only is desirable, but constitutes a necessary dimension in the process of the regional integration of many economies into the global economy. Small island developing States, which constitute one fifth of the membership of the United Nations, are in a particularly difficult situation due to their vulnerability to a wide range of ecological, climatic and economic factors. The specificities of these States have been articulated in the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Constraints to their sustainable development include a narrow resource base that does not allow them to benefit from economies of scale, and the fact that they have small domestic markets. They also rely heavily on external markets, which are usually geographically distant, and costs for transportation, energy and infrastructure are high. In addition, small island States have little resilience to natural disasters. A vulnerability index of 16 socio-economic and other parameters has been prescribed for these States in the Barbados Programme of Action. We urge the United Nations and other international organizations to coordinate their efforts in developing and refining such an index, which should be used, together with other factors, by the World Trade Organization and the Bretton Woods institutions to accord special and preferential treatment to this category of State. I wish to say a few words now about the Chagos archipelago and the island of Tromelin. Respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity is, under the United Nations system, an acquired and inalienable right of every State, however big or small. We are conscious that the United Nations favours the completion of the process of decolonization. For a number of years now, we have continuously brought before the General Assembly the question of the Chagos archipelago, which has always formed part of the State of Mauritius. This Assembly will recall that the Chagos archipelago, including the island of Diego Garcia, was detached by the colonial Power just before our independence, in violation of General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) of December 1960 — the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples — and 2066 (XX) of 16 December 1965, which prohibits the dismemberment of colonial territories prior to the accession to independence. We have all along sought to resolve this issue bilaterally with the United Kingdom through dialogue, but there has been no tangible progress so far. This issue has now reached a critical stage and we are extremely anxious to have meaningful negotiations with the United Kingdom with a view to resolving this matter within the shortest possible time. We also reiterate our demand that, pending a resolution of this issue, the former residents of the Chagos archipelago and their families, who were forcibly evicted and sent to Mauritius by the colonial Power, be allowed to return to their homeland. We launch a fresh appeal to the former colonial Power, the United Kingdom, to come forward and engage in serious and purposeful discussions with us towards the early settlement of the Chagos archipelago question. We wish to stress that Mauritius will never abandon its intention to reunite its territory and to assert its sovereignty over the Chagos archipelago. We also urge France, with which we have been discussing the issue of the return to us of the island of Tromelin, another outer island territory of Mauritius, to work with us constructively for an early resolution of this important issue. There is an agreement in principle for the co-determination of the island and its surrounding maritime space and we need to work out further modalities so as to arrive at a final solution on this issue. (spoke in French) I was gratified by the meeting, on 6 September 2000, of heads of State and Government of French- speaking States Members of the United Nations. That meeting allowed us to consider and arrive at the truth that the United Nations is the keystone that will allow mankind to free itself from the chains and other prejudices that hinder the evolution of international affairs and globalization, the two main engines of a better future for all. This meeting offered French- speaking States Members of the United Nations the opportunity firmly to assert their determination to achieve that objective. I wish to stress that the future to which we aspire and in which we place our hopes must develop in conditions of respect for and promotion of the plurality of our peoples, their cultural and ethnic diversity and their multilingualism. We are duty-bound to respect, maintain and preserve the nature of our world, that rainbow of many cultures which, through globalization and the United Nations, will be a source of enormous wealth for States and individuals. The Republic of Mauritius daily lives out this vision of the future. Our experience prompts us to subscribe to that vision for the common good. Hopes and dreams are built on concrete action. With the assistance of all its Member States, the United Nations must enjoy better and greater means. Only thus will peace become a tangible reality. Without peace and security, any effort at development is doomed to failure and the happiness to which the peoples of the world aspire will remain dead letter. (spoke in English) It goes without saying that, to achieve the objectives of a more peaceful, just and prosperous world, nations need to rededicate themselves to new commitments in the twenty-first century. Our delegation is ready to assume this responsibility and 17 looks forward to a fruitful outcome for the session that lies ahead under Mr. Holkeri's leadership. I wish to end on a note of optimism with regard to the capacity of the United Nations to address global issues and to spearhead development and progress. My delegation is confident that our Organization and its specialized agencies are poised to play an even greater role in global reconstruction. We live in a highly demanding world. It wants results, seeks accountability and is not ready to condone failures. We all have a responsibility to make the world a safer place and to ensure a better future for our people. We can do it. Let us do it. Before I conclude, however, I wish to take this opportunity to confirm the candidature of Mauritius for election to one of the non-permanent seats in the Security Council in the elections that are scheduled to take place next month. As far back as January 2000, Mauritius announced to all countries of the East African region that we would seek election to a non- permanent seat on the Security Council. At that time, Mauritius was the only declared candidate. The Government of Mauritius considers itself fully qualified to serve on the Security Council, which is the supreme organ of the United Nations, in the larger interests of peace and security and to contribute in a substantial measure to the important work of our Organization. As a multi-party democracy in a multi-ethnic society, Mauritius has a track record in international relations and we consider that the standing of the Security Council depends upon that of its constituent members. The Security Council will be called upon to take important decisions in the interests of peace and security and it is important that the Security Council act as a homogeneous body. It is the wish of my country that our candidature be considered on its merits. We will very much appreciate the General Assembly's support in this regard.  Let me first of all congratulate Mr. Holkeri on his unanimous election to the mantle of the leadership of the world's foremost international body. He is presiding in this, the last year of the present century, following the profound commitments manifested at the Millennium Summit. We look forward in eager anticipation to the implementation of the Summit pledges, as small States are becoming more and more disillusioned with the actual manifestations and the selectivity of the United Nations. I should like to offer congratulations to his predecessor, who, as we know, comes from a recently independent country — a country which had to struggle in order to be entrusted with the management of its own affairs. In him, we saw a genuine attempt to move towards some equilibrium in this body. As such, my country applauds his efforts, but we are still awaiting the day when small countries will receive the respect due to sovereign States. This year we will be making a deliberately short statement, in the hope that the Assembly will concentrate on the myriad of problems with which we are plagued. Small States do not equate with small problems. In reality, the reverse is often the norm, particularly when the State in question is still on the periphery — the periphery of the dominant industrial entities. In the case of my country, peripheral existence emerged in the post-Colombian era when, along with other Caribbean countries, we became colonies of exploitation, as opposed to colonies of settlement. Mercantilism demanded our production of agricultural commodities, whether indigo, cotton or sugar cane; it was a monoculture, designed solely and purposely for the betterment of the mother country, at the expense of the colonies. 6 But no doubt the question is being asked as to why I am raising that issue here. It is precisely because the lingering reality is that we are sometimes moved to ask ourselves if we are still victims of the “Robinson Crusoe” mentality. To be a colony of exploitation meant that the entity was an area of underdevelopment — an underdevelopment which meant that we were to remain in that state in perpetuity if we were to fulfil the precise conditions for exploitation. Throughout history, smaller entities have been, as it were, invisible. We do not have small problems. How could that be the case when nuclear waste is still being trans-shipped through our waters, despite numerous and repeated protests, pleas and entreaties? We have a problem with the World Trade Organization (WTO), which rules in favour of the interests of multinational enterprises and the countries benefiting from the operations of those enterprises. The Windward Island producers of bananas were at a total disadvantage, as they could not afford to pay the cost of adequate representation before the WTO. In 1896, the silver- throated orator, William Jennings Bryan, stood up in California and asked whether mankind should be crucified upon a cross of gold. Today, we must ask if Windward Island humanity is to be snuffed out on a bed of yellow fruit, thereby sending a ripple effect throughout the Caribbean, culminating in deprivation, degradation, depression and the severest forms of dehumanization. At the Millennium Summit round table, much time was spent talking about globalization, without the fundamental reality of that globalization — so-called free trade — being dealt with. In modern history, there has never been free trade. It has been advocated, encouraged and even preached about. John Bright and Richard Cobden have been acclaimed for their “gospel of free trade”, but it has never been a reality. In the nineteenth century, it was propelled by the industrial and maritime countries which stood to benefit from it. In the twentieth century, it has emanated from the dominant States, and the statistics demonstrate that it has wrought havoc on most of the developing world. This has primarily been the result of selfishness and the unwillingness to listen to and accept the concerns of those who suffer most from it. Yes, we benefit from the expanded use of the Internet, the greater access to education and the ability to travel abroad more frequently. But we have been hurt by extraordinary pressures to control our economic advancement, whether by the influence of multinational enterprises or by maritime activity, which deplete our resources and pollute our environment. Instead of our nutritional level improving, the statistics again show that poverty has spread, and the sick in poor countries cannot access the medicines needed to improve the health of their societies. If we are to have globalization, let us recognize its imperfections and address them meaningfully. Let us not preach, “do as I say but not as I do”. Globalization does not have a human face. We continue to hear about the opportunities for the developing countries, but we are still waiting for the benefits to be made manifest. While we wait, we would like to remind this body that we remain disappointed that the International Criminal Court will not be dealing with illegal trafficking in narcotics or with illegal trade in arms and terrorism. Let us be heard. Let us be seen. We do not have small problems. At the Millennium Summit, my Prime Minister, Lester Bryant Bird, clearly demonstrated how the world's economic and political agenda is devised and directed by a few of its most powerful Governments. He stated that Antigua and Barbuda, as well as several other small countries, “have experienced the most blatant disregard for the rules of international law, rules that have been spelled out by the General Assembly and upheld by the International Court of Justice.” (A/55/PV.3) The principle now is “might is right”. The Prime Minister pointed out that all of this is being done by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which believes that its States will lose capital to other States because of their more competitive tax regimes. They have gone further by dubbing tax incentives “harmful tax competition” and linking it most unfairly with money-laundering activities, even when there is no evidence for the charge. My country has voluntarily agreed to contribute more for peacekeeping even with our strapped finances, as we accept our role as a contributor to the welfare of the globe. We would likewise hope that the dominant be fair to us. I can go on and on with our difficulties and our victimization primarily due to our pusillanimous nature. For the first time in several years we have not elaborated on natural disasters. By now all members of 7 the United Nations should know of our plight. We would however wish to speak on a decolonization issue. Antigua and Barbuda has followed closely the question of Western Sahara, and even though we do not have an international intelligence system, we are calling for an implementation of the referendum, as the signals for renewed violence, if the United Nations does not carry out its pledge, are quite clear. We do not wish to see, once again, the carnage witnessed in East Timor. The conflict, as it has been underlined through resolutions of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, and the Movement of Non-Aligned States, must be resolved through the exercise of the Saharawi people of their right to self-determination. The international community has for decades adopted this legal framework as a basis for a just and durable solution to the conflict. We believe that the referendum can be organized before next year, and we are calling for such. We do not wish another situation with the outbreak of violence. Let me sum up with a few things that Antigua and Barbuda would like to see at the United Nations. We would like to press for the end of “selective” multilateralism and move towards the incorporation of “genuine” multilateralism. We desire to have a reform process expanded beyond the Secretariat and practised among all countries of the Organization. Reform should not connote expansion, it should mean restructuring. The principle of rotation on the major decision-making bodies, particularly the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), should become a reality. And may I repeat: the principle of rotation should become a reality. The concept of globalization should be viewed in its entirety, and a study should be done on its effects on developing countries. The gross national product should not be used as the sole criterion for graduating a State from concessionary loans, and the vulnerability index, on which Antigua and Barbuda is ranked very high, should be taken into consideration. The principle of “the equality of sovereign States” should be used to guard against the marginalization of States within the United Nations system. The countries that have pledged to contribute 0.7 per cent of their official development assistance (ODA) should carry out their commitment in this regard. There should be some form of equity in regard to geographic groupings within the United Nations. While we understand the reasons why the existing groups were created, the time has come for a more equitable arrangement. The nations comprising the United Nations should become truly united. Antigua and Barbuda will continue to fulfil its obligations to its citizens and to this body. We recognize the benefits that we accrue from our involvement in this parliament of parliaments. We have benefited and will continue to benefit from the programmes of the various bodies and agencies of this body. We are, however, confident that we have contributed towards global progress, and we remain ready to continue our contribution to the United Nations.   Our stubborn quest for a world of peace, progress, solidarity and of concord recently prompted the Heads of State and of Government from the world over to commit themselves at the Millennium Summit to joint reflection about the ways of making a reality of this aspiration in the twenty-first century. The conclusions they arrived at, conclusions that can be summarized as the need for us to usher in a new era in international relations, without a doubt mark the framework for the future work of our Organization. It is thus a positive circumstance that our work is unfolding against this backdrop so that during our deliberations we might strive to act in accordance with the guidelines set for us by our Heads of State. But before my delegation attempts its own assessment of the state of the world as we look at the fresh challenges facing us in the twenty-first century, I should like, on behalf of His Excellency Mr. Ange- Félix Patassé, President of our Republic and Head of State, who wishes us every success in our work, to address to you, Mr. President, as well as to the other members of the Bureau, our heartfelt congratulations on your election to the presidency of this session. Your superb mastery of international affairs in the context of which your country, Finland, holds a very special place, bodes well indeed for the success of this session and, in this connection, you can count on the cooperation of the delegation of the Central African Republic. The competence with which your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, guided the work at the fifty-fourth session, has earned the full appreciation of my delegation. I should like as well to express again to the Secretary-General the full support of the Government of the Central African Republic for all he is constantly doing at the helm of our Organization to provide solid underpinnings for peace and development in a world which has become complex indeed. The relevance of the proposals that he put forward in his introductory report at the Millennium Summit reflect his deep commitment to fully serving the cause of the Organization, and we are deeply grateful. Furthermore, the Central African Republic, which has always encouraged our Organization to stride forward towards universality, welcomes the admission 7 of Tuvalu as the 189th Member State. I am delighted to congratulate this young republic on behalf of the delegation of the Central African Republic. A world of peace, of progress, of solidarity and of concord, such was the philosophy of the founding fathers of the United Nations. How can one explain then that 55 years later we should be so far from attaining that goal? Peace, when it is not assured, gives way to war. Factors such as penury, destitution, poverty, AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis — compounded by intolerance, injustice, indifference and social inequalities — these make up the threats to the balance of peace. Progress is a reality for only a quarter of humankind, while three quarters still are not enjoying decent living conditions. Solidarity still is something selectively applied in a world that is nonetheless interdependent. All this cannot foster fellowship within this constantly changing world. That is the state of the world as we enter the twenty-first century. The Secretary-General's report entitled “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty- first century” has the merit of having pointed out all these distortions that do not help to ensure the smooth unfolding of international relations. But even though the United Nations, 55 years after having come into being, has not fulfilled the hopes to which its inception gave rise, the fact nonetheless remains that it does exist. And the fact that it still does exist is something which first and foremost is due to the determination of States, which do in fact feel the need for this Organization. We must therefore stimulate renewed interest in the United Nations; that is what is at stake at this session. The United Nations must regain its authority in order to contribute to regulating the course of events in the world in the twenty-first century. On the basis of real solidarity among States, we must conceive of a new kind of cooperation that would make it possible for us collectively to organize a defence of peace, the promotion of development and of progress, as well as the fostering of human rights and of democracy everywhere around the world. The fact is that as you look around the world these days, you find that peace is jeopardized in many different countries, and especially on the African continent. What is more, all this is happening as though the conventional conflict-settlement machinery were no longer suited to coping with crisis situations. Still, the resources afforded by the United Nations, as well as by regional organizations, have made it possible for a new attitude in the face of conflict to emerge, one which first and foremost involves regional solidarity. It is in this context that my country today still plays host to a United Nations office, the United Nations Peace-Building Support Office in the Central African Republic (BONUCA), responsible for striving to consolidate peace. Indeed the tragic events for which the Central African Republic became the staging ground in 1996 and 1997 prompted African countries first to intervene in the context of the Inter-African Mission to Monitor the Implementation of the Bangui Agreements (MISAB), before bringing the United Nations into the picture. The United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic (MINURCA) made a genuine contribution by its very presence and by what it did in restoring peace and in promoting national reconciliation, thanks to the support provided in organizing both legislative and presidential elections. I would like here again to express the appreciation of the Government of the Central African Republic to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, to the members of the Security Council and especially to the countries that so generously contributed to supporting that mission of peace by providing the wherewithal for MINURCA. The experience gained in the Central African Republic can be made available as an asset to the United Nations, reflecting a success in keeping the peace and consolidating it. My delegation, which supports the Brahimi report, hopes that the recommendations it embodies will be fully implemented so that we really see take root a new doctrine for United Nations operations of peacekeeping. In the same vein, my delegation hopes that the United Nations provides the same resources to 8 promoting a lasting settlement in the situations in Sierra Leone, in Angola, in Burundi, between Ethiopia and Eritrea, as well as in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. As to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which shares a rather long border with my own country, my delegation calls for cooperation from the international community in the context of the United Nations, so that a solution may be found to this conflict, the consequences of which have already taken a heavy toll, both for the Congolese people, with which we are bound by fraternal ties, as well as for the neighbouring States such as the Central African Republic, which is currently hosting tens of thousands of refugees that have fled the effects of the war. My delegation takes advantage of this opportunity to call upon the competent international authorities, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in particular, to devote special attention to the Central African Republic in this instance. Moreover, my delegation firmly supports the ongoing process seeking to bring about a settlement to the question of the Middle East. We do not doubt that the determination of the parties involved will make it possible to lift the last remaining obstacles so that a fair, negotiated and lasting solution in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) may be found. The United Nations subsequently should regain its authority in order to enable it to contribute by letting multilateralism work to promote development throughout the world. The fact is that without denying what has been done internationally to fight poverty and while acknowledging that developing countries should shoulder primary responsibility for ensuring the necessary preconditions for their development, my delegation hopes that the community of States will come to grips with the question of poverty and will apply a fresh way of thinking to it in this twenty-first century. All the indicators of poverty are there for us to see, and you can find them everywhere in Africa: weak primary educational systems, a lack of sanitary infrastructure, a lack of drinking water, of the proper conditions for hygiene, to name but a few. The African continent is part of that 1 billion inhabitants of our planet living on less than one dollar a day, while two- thirds of the population of the planet hold three- quarters of the world's income. Poverty is extreme in Africa; we must do our utmost to come up with new ways to reduce it in the twenty-first century. The Central African Republic, which at the beginning of this year took part in the Libreville summit on growth and poverty reduction in Africa, abides by the new strategic framework to combat poverty proposed by the Bretton Woods institutions. My country therefore calls for an increase in the resources allocated to such agencies as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to support the Central African Republic's strategy to combat poverty. Of course, eradicating poverty will be necessary in order to make it possible for developing countries to take part in the work of development. That is particularly true with regard to the countries of Africa. But it will also be necessary to put developing countries in a position where they can really rise to the development challenge. In this connection, the issue of the debt burden comes to mind, for it continues to substantially handicap all development efforts. How, then, can we ensure that globalization stimulates development in Africa instead of leading to marginalization? Inasmuch as the new technologies that are being introduced contribute to the overall progress of mankind, Africa must expect to benefit, and we once again call for the rules governing the work of the World Trade Organization to take Africa's interests into account. In his introductory report to the Millennium Summit, the Secretary-General reminded us that all activity is people-oriented. Nothing is more true. My delegation hopes that the United Nations will regain its authority so that it can contribute to ensuring the necessary conditions for the promotion of rights and democracy throughout the world. Guaranteeing and protecting human rights contributes to national consensus and strengthening democracy in a country. We have understood that so well in the Central African Republic that we have created a government body called the High Commission for Human Rights, whose mission is not only to monitor respect for human 9 rights, but also to implement the various international legal instruments signed by the Central African Republic aimed at promoting human rights. That implementation requires resources in order to bring about the most widespread dissemination possible of human rights at the national level. As human rights are indivisible, it is important to establish cooperation between States to promote human rights throughout the world. My delegation hopes that in the course of the twenty-first century the United Nations will become increasingly involved in international efforts to establish a worldwide culture of human rights. It must be reformed and renewed in order to be able to take on that role. Renewal means adaptation to the realities of the world today. The Organization's procedures, methods and approaches to every issue within its competence will have to be streamlined. However, let us not forget that protecting international peace and security is the primary task entrusted to the United Nations. That role is primarily the responsibility of the Security Council. My delegation would like to see the Security Council reformed in order to better discharge that responsibility. The world has changed profoundly, and the composition of the Security Council should reflect that. Even though the veto power is not as abused today as it was during the cold war, we should restructure the Council in both the permanent and non-permanent categories to take into account the new international reality. That is the opinion of the delegation of the Central African Republic. In that way we can contribute to setting relations between nations on a different course. That requires a real and willing commitment by States. This year's adoption of the Constitutive Act of the African Union as an expression of Africa's willingness to join the United Nations in meeting all the challenges is a manifestation of that commitment. My country will do everything in its power to encourage this new movement towards integration. The century that witnessed the birth of the United Nations has ended. A new century is beginning, one in which there is still a United Nations — something that is cause for satisfaction to mankind. But what shall we make of the United Nations in the twenty-first century? That is indeed the fundamental question raised by the Secretary-General in his report to the Millennium Summit. Should we continue to keep the United Nations locked in the vice of contradictions that exists between Member States? Should we continue to look on helplessly as its authority is flouted in peacekeeping operations? Should we continue to accept the Organization's being left behind as the world moves forward? The answer, in the opinion of the delegation of the Central African Republic, is a resounding “No”. Let us therefore return to the dream of the founding fathers and make sure that in the new century the United Nations has the necessary means to bring about peace, solidarity and harmony throughout the world. Such a world is possible if we want it. That is the world our Heads of State spoke of in their message to us at the Millennium Summit. I stand here today as Israel's messenger of peace. The establishment of the State of Israel was the fulfilment of the dream of a people forced into exile 2,000 years ago. The destruction of the Second Temple and the dissolution of Jewish statehood were the result of our failure as a nation to assume the proper political course, to opt for accommodation with reality instead of engaging in messianic hallucinations. Our punishment was very severe indeed, but maybe it can serve as a lesson to those nations and leaders who today may be tragically led to believe that the dangerous inertia of romantic mythology and unrealistic dreams is preferable to the banality of a wise and prudent political course. Most revolts are uprisings against a system. Zionism was a revolt against destiny. It is this expression of our re-encounter with the world of political realities that eventually led us to the restoration of Jewish statehood in 1948. Tragically, however, historical and geopolitical circumstances have put us in a prolonged, bitter conflict with the Palestinian people. It was thanks to the leadership of Prime Minister Rabin and Chairman Arafat that, seven years ago, Palestinians and Israelis were put on a track leading to peace and reconciliation. We have been engaged in the past seven years, but more intensely in the last year, in a major effort, unprecedented in both scope and depth, to resolve this 100-year-old conflict. This negotiating process, and it alone, should be the foundation of a peace agreement. At this point, I would like to address my colleagues from the Arab and Muslim world. I hope that my words will convince them of the Israeli Government's sincere intentions to achieve a comprehensive peace based on respect, dignity and fairness, which will end the Middle East conflict and best serve the vital interests of the entire region. The Jewish people have no quarrel with Islam. On the contrary, we have the deepest respect for that great Islamic civilization under whose wings Jewish history — from Al-Andalus to Turkey, from Egypt to Iraq, from the Jewish quarters of Tangier to Aleppo in Syria — has known some of its finest hours and most glorious cultural achievements. But even at the height of the “Golden Age”, in the midst of the delights and wonders of Muslim Spain, our people never abandoned their dream of and yearning for Jerusalem, as expressed in the words of the poet Yehuda Halevi more than 800 years ago: “My heart is in the East, and I am in the furthest reaches of the West. To thee my soul yearns from the depth of the West.” We are a small nation decimated by holocaust and dispersion, but our heritage is rich. It was from our eternal capital, Jerusalem — which, according to a Muslim source, “in the days of the people of Israel, was an area larger than Cairo and Baghdad” — that the message of monotheism was projected to humanity. The Jewish holy sites and shrines in Jerusalem are the very heart of the Jewish faith, identity and history. For the past 2,000 years, Jews have turned towards Temple Mount in prayer three times a day. “If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its cunning. Let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth if I do not recall thee”, they pledged in joy and in sorrow. For the past 30 years, Israel has consistently demonstrated its commitment to freedom of religion 10 and worship in Jerusalem. Heads of the various religious denominations in Jerusalem will attest to the fact that the city has never been so open to all believers. During the last month of Ramadan, a record number, unheard of in the annals of Islam in Jerusalem, of more than 400,000 Muslim worshippers attended Friday prayers at the Al-Aqsa Mosque. I note this as an example of the deep respect which Israel has for Islam and its followers. Just as we do not question the sincerity of the sentiments of others towards their holy sites in Jerusalem, we expect that others will not question the Jewish people's deep, awe- inspired attachment to Jerusalem and its holy sites, from which we will never again be parted. Politicians need not distort God's intentions for the sake of negotiations. How refreshing it is that a great number of Muslim scholars should attest to the fact that, as the Supreme Court Judge Mujir el-din al- Hanbali wrote in his History of Jerusalem and Hebron, “David reigned for 40 years and before he died he passed the monarchy on to his son Solomon and told him to build the beit al-miqdas — the Temple”. The expression beit al-miqdas — that is, the House of the Temple — became in many Muslim sources a synonym of the word “Jerusalem”. It is a travesty of historical truth to present the Palestinian refugee problem as the result of mass expulsion. There is no denying, however, that once the Jews — who for thousands of years waited with humility for their redemption — made their re- encounter with history as a sovereign nation, they had to assume the inherent immorality of war. The suffering of the civilian population will always be a burden on the conscience of any nation at war. The Arab-Israeli conflict has no monopoly on this maxim. Clearly, the Palestinian refugees were victims of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Israel, however, can assume neither political nor moral responsibility for this tragedy that was the direct result of the all-out onslaught against reborn Israel — an onslaught launched by the Arab armies in 1948. The Palestinian refugee problem was born as the land was bisected by the sword — not by design, Jewish or Arab. The problem was largely the inevitable by-product of Arab and Jewish fears and the protracted bitter fighting. We believe that, once established, it is the Palestinian State that should provide for the vindication of the Palestinian claim for the right of return. The notion is preposterous that a nation should create a State only in order to gather its exiles in a neighbouring State. Israel, however, has expressed its willingness to actively participate in any international effort and fund aimed at providing the financial foundations for the resolution of the refugee problem. Out of humanitarian considerations, Israel may also accept a small and limited number of refugees within a scheme of family reunification. Let there be no doubt. The peace process is not the objective, we need not sanctify the process. Peace, not the process, is the objective. Peace is not about more conventions, summits and resolutions; it is about the future of our children, and about the seemingly unattractive banalities of building the mechanisms of cohabitation. To the Palestinians we say: we need to disentangle ourselves from this seemingly insoluble conundrum. We know that unless your and our wounds are healed, peace — not only the political peace but also that of the mind and the conscience — will not be complete. Yet, at the same time we realize that the total satisfaction of our respective dreams or presumed rights will lead us to perdition. Hence it is incumbent on us to devise realistic ways to heal without opening new wounds, to dignify our existence as free peoples without putting into jeopardy the collective existence of each other. Peace is not about twisting each other's arms; it is about defining a common interest. I believe that such an ideal compromise is not impossible to achieve, while banishing the sword from this land of God. Peace has not materialized in full yet, but I believe that we are moving in the right direction. In the past year the Government of Prime Minister Ehud Barak has made bold, courageous and unprecedented moves towards peace. At Camp David we have contemplated ideas and explored concepts relating to the most sensitive and supposedly intractable issues. Our sense is that breakthrough is possible, just as failure may lead to breakdown. We have turned the sea that separated us into a river. But, do we have the courage and the determination to cross it? I know I may not sound too objective by vouching for Prime Minister Barak. But, I have come here with the power of conviction that no Prime Minister before him — and let no illusions be harboured, no Prime Minister after him — will touch as he has the outer limits of his options as an Israeli and a Jew. I do not underestimate the dilemmas facing Chairman Arafat. He is the great leader of the Palestinian people, and I know that the decision is not easy for him either. But this is the destiny of leaders: to always be prophets without honour. They should not expect the applause of their constituencies, what really matters is the judgement of future generations. I call upon our Palestinian partners to realize that history has brought us to a moment of truth and decision from which we are not allowed to escape empty-handed without inflicting severe punishments on our own peoples. Israel aspires to achieve a comprehensive peace in the region and help move it into the future. Twenty one years ago we signed a cornerstone peace treaty with Egypt, followed by a peace treaty with Jordan and an incipient but promising process of normalization with the Maghreb and Gulf States. Eighteen years of Israeli military presence in Lebanon have been terminated by the Barak Government, in close cooperation with the United Nations, and thanks especially to the efforts and dedication of Secretary- General Kofi Annan. We have also delved into the possibilities of reaching peace with Syria. We hope that talks with Syria will resume as soon as possible and that a fair and equitable agreement can be achieved. Israel is determined to pursue peace and take the calculated risks attached to it. But Israel will not compromise — not now and not ever — on those security and national interests that we deem vital. While building our peace with the Palestinians we cannot ignore security concerns inherent in the fact that peace with the Palestinians is not our last peace. We still have a dispute pending with Syria, and we are still exposed to the most serious regional threats emanating from revolutionary powers in the area. Peace requires the active involvement of the international community. The critical role played by the United States, and especially the relentless dedication and unequivocal commitment of President Bill Clinton, has been massive and constructive. Once again the United States has proven to be the indispensable nation. We have also seen the European Union rising to the task, and we commend the role of the French Presidency and that of other key European Governments. Peace needs the advice of the international community and it will need that support to cement peace once it is achieved. We expect also to work closely with the Egyptian Government for the cause of regional peace. I believe that it is also important that Russia and the Arab world express their opinions that now is the time to make historical decisions. Time is an elusive and perishable commodity. We are all running out of it. We are open to developing wide spaces of cooperation with our Palestinian neighbours and indeed with all the countries of the Middle East, with dignity and mutuality. But, we do not intend to impose our experience on anybody, nor is it our intention to assert our economic or technological presence amidst those of our neighbours who do not want it. The leaders and the elites throughout the Middle East do not need our advice to know what are the real challenges ahead of us all: modernizing the economy and combating disease, hunger, poverty and illiteracy. Indeed, small islands of excellence notwithstanding, the Middle East is in grave danger of being on the wrong side of the digital divide. In his inaugural speech in 1961, the late President Kennedy invited his generation to join him in a struggle: “Now the trumpet summons us again — not as a call to bear arms, though arms we need; not as a call to battle, though embattled we are — but a call to bear the burden of a long twilight struggle, ... a struggle against the common enemies of man: tyranny, poverty, disease and war itself.” Nothing will make us happier than joining hands with our Arab neighbours with dignity and mutuality in this most noble of struggles. The Middle East is not tranquil yet. It is still replete with armed conflicts, political hostilities and animosities. Israel believes that regional arrangements are crucial for arms control. A step-by-step approach, commensurate with progress towards comprehensive peace, is the right approach. We are concerned by the expanding stockpiles of conventional weapons in the region, as well as by attempts made by Iran and Iraq to acquire and develop 12 non-conventional weapons, and by an increasing missile threat. Israel attaches great importance to the eventual establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the region. In order to reach that goal, direct negotiations between all States of the region must be held. Last year saw a turnaround in Israel's relations with the United Nations. After years of anomaly, Israel was temporarily admitted to the Western European and Other Group (WEOG) in New York. We hope that Israel's admission to the Western Group in international organizations based outside New York will soon be secured. The United Nations, and indeed most of its Member States, played a major role in demanding that Iran treat fairly the 13 Jews falsely accused, convicted and sentenced for ludicrous charges of espionage. It is in such instances that the international community has the opportunity to express its discontent and exert pressure on countries that break the norms of behaviour. On the issue of the reform of the Security Council, is our opinion that the Security Council should faithfully reflect the present geopolitical picture, a picture that has changed beyond recognition since the last enlargement of the Council in 1965. We subscribe to the view that the right of veto — a safety net against the possible arbitrariness of the General Assembly — should remain in the hands of a limited number of States. Allow me a final reflection on the Israeli- Palestinian dilemma. The tragedy of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict stemmed from discrepant historical rhythms. The history of our modern national movement has been characterized by realistic responses to objective historical conditions. The Palestinians have consistently fought for the solutions of yesterday — those they had rejected a generation or two earlier. This persistent attempt to turn back the clock of history lies at the root of many of the misfortunes that have befallen the peoples of the region. Now it is time for all of us to overcome dire memories and look forward. Neither the physical nor the rhetorical war of images will bring us any closer to peace and reconciliation. No one has a monopoly on the mythology of suffering and atrocities. In this tragic dispute we have all committed acts of violence that we ought not to be proud of. To the Palestinians we say, we are excited by the prospects to overcome the troubled history of our relations in order to shape our dreams of peace. Let us then join hands in asking the world, which has been watching, perplexed at, and sometimes even fuelling our wars, to mobilize its resources for the benefit of our peoples. And, let us be full partners in this international effort to lay down the foundations of the Middle East of the future. The creative energies of our peoples should at long last be put to work in the service of peace, for as the wisest of kings, King Solomon, the builder of the Temple in Jerusalem, wrote thousands of years ago, there is: “A time for slaying and a time for healing ... a time for war and a time for peace”. (The Holy Bible, Ecclesiastes 3:3-8)  I am very pleased on behalf of the people and the Government of Guinea to convey to Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland our warmest congratulations on his unanimous election to preside over our deliberations at the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. His election highlighted his merits, his personal qualities and his rich experience in international affairs. It also reflected the high esteem in which the international community holds his great country, Finland, whose commitment to the ideals of peace, justice, progress and the advancement of women is well known and appreciated by one and all. As a member of the General Committee at this session, my delegation wishes to assure the President of its support and full cooperation. It gives me pleasure also to pay tribute to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, who honourably carried out his weighty responsibilities in the service of the Organization. Let me also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose exemplary work at the helm of the Organization merits our highest appreciation and our support. I take this opportunity moreover to thank the Secretary-General for his report (A/54/2000) entitled “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”. That remarkable document takes account of all the current concerns of Member States. I welcome the admission of the State of Tuvalu as the one hundred eighty-ninth Member of the Organization. This reinforces the universality of the United Nations. This session of the General Assembly is a historic one. It is taking place just as the Organization has successfully concluded the Millennium Summit, which brought together in this Hall nearly all the world's leaders. The outcome of that important Summit is a source of hope for our peoples at the dawn of the new millennium. Just one week ago, from this very rostrum, the Prime Minister of Guinea informed the international community of a barbarous act of aggression against the Republic of Guinea, an act of aggression whose sole aim was to destabilize my country. Deadly, devastating attacks have been carried out against the peaceful population of Guinea. These were led by armed gangs from Liberia, but it is regrettable to have to note that another fraternal African country, Burkina Faso, has also been involved in the aggression. The Republic of Guinea, a land of peace and hospitality, which has paid an enormous price by receiving hundreds of thousands of refugees and which is working for the restoration of peace and harmony in West Africa, has thus been the victim of aggression by the same people who caused the genocide and mutilations in Liberia and in Sierra Leone. 41 I urgently call on the international community strongly to condemn this aggression, which is part of a plan to destabilize the subregion. It is this that justifies my Government's request to the Security Council that vigorous measures be taken to guarantee peace, security and stability in the West African region. The Government of Guinea has had to face the severe consequences of the massive presence of 800,000 on its territory for the past decade, and it has been obliged to divert resources from our country's economic development programmes. That is why my Government is most grateful for the United Nations initiative to convene a conference for support and solidarity with respect to Guinea. On behalf of my Government, I wish once again to convey my delegation's sincere thanks to the Secretary-General and to all others who have contributed to this important initiative. My country looks forward with great interest to the completion of this initiative with the convening of a second meeting, scheduled to be held in November at Geneva. This is the proper moment for my delegation to turn to the thorny question of conflict in Africa. Indeed, many of the crises that have emerged on our continent pose a threat to peace and constitute a grave violation of the principles and purposes of the United Nations. The scope of these crises and their proliferation jeopardizes all efforts at national development and at achieving subregional integration. I take this opportunity to welcome the report (A/55/305) of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations, chaired by Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. Its recommendations enabled the Security Council to adopt an important resolution on ensuring an effective role for the Council in the maintenance of international peace and security, particularly in Africa. My delegation hopes that the new provisions of that resolution will be used to guarantee the effectiveness of United Nations peacekeeping operations. Among the central priorities of Africa, which remains the theatre of many conflicts, is the strengthening of its capacity to prevent, manage and resolve conflicts. Thus, whether it be the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea or the situation in the Great Lakes region, in Angola or in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, there have been significant breakthroughs in the pursuit of peaceful, just and lasting solutions, thanks to concerted action by the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations. In the West African region, the quest for peace in Sierra Leone is continuing with the commendable assistance of States members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and with the active support of the United Nations, through the deployment of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL). My delegation expresses its full support for Security Council resolution 1306 (2000), which placed an embargo on the illegal sale of diamonds from conflict zones. We appeal urgently to all States and to all specialized agencies to cooperate actively in the effective implementation of that resolution. The proliferation and uncontrolled distribution of light weapons is another subject of grave concern, and is a major factor complicating and prolonging conflicts in Africa and, more tragically, encouraging the recruitment of child soldiers. Indeed, the resurgence of rebel movements and the expansion of large-scale banditry in our countries have been made possible by that phenomenon. The firm support of the international community is required to eradicate it. In that connection, my delegation is pleased at the initiatives taken by the United Nations and by the OAU to support the efforts of our States to combat this scourge, which threatens the stability of our continent. The beginning of the third millennium brings many challenges and hopes. It brings the hope of seeing a plan for the settlement to the conflict in Western Sahara, thanks to the joint efforts of the OAU and the United Nations, and the hope of finally seeing Israel and its Arab neighbours give peace a chance through a just and lasting settlement to the crisis, taking into account the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people, as well as the respect for the rights and dignity of all peoples in the region. The question of development remains one of the major challenges of this century, and as such it must remain at the centre of our Organization's concerns. At a time when a portion of the planet has contentedly crossed the threshold of this new millennium and is embarking, under the rubric of globalization, on what is called “the new economy”, a major portion of the world — indeed, the largest portion — continues to live in poverty, suffering the perverse effects of this globalization. With regard to the alarming situation prevailing on the African continent, the main concern of the 42 peoples of the United Nations must be Africa, so that the root causes of its non-development can be eradicated and so that it can be enabled to eliminate poverty and enhance its capacities in order for it to have better access to markets. To do that, debt cancellation, an increase in official development assistance and better attention to its specific needs should make it possible to integrate the African continent into the world economy. That is why my delegation, based on the correlation between peace and development, is pleased at the recent decisions taken by the G-8 in Okinawa, aimed at more effectively combating poverty and at bridging the digital gap between the North and the South and at humanizing globalization. In that respect, my country calls for more solidarity on the part of the rich countries, and we deeply hope that — over and above professions of good faith — concrete measures will be taken to allow the developing countries, particularly those in Africa, to experience sustained growth leading to sustainable development. With that in mind, my delegation appeals to all its development partners to contribute, by means of more generous and better-targeted aid, to strengthening the institutional capacities of our States and to creating adequate infrastructures, which guarantee balanced development and success in the struggle against poverty. The Republic of Guinea is very much concerned by the ravages of the AIDS virus. We believe that this battle must further mobilize the international community so that the necessary sacrifices can be made to halt this scourge, which has taken more victims in Africa than anywhere else in the world. That is why my delegation supports the important decisions that resulted from the recent International Conference held in Durban, South Africa. The protection of fundamental human rights, the satisfaction of priority human needs and social justice must remain at the forefront of United Nations concerns. The United Nations, in its irreplaceable role as an instrument for the promotion of cooperation and understanding between peoples, must strengthen the culture of peace and sharing. Today it is unanimously acknowledged that the United Nations can continue to play an effective role only if there is a necessary reform of its organs, in particular the Security Council, which has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. The aspirations of strengthening its authority and ensuring more equitable representation in the Council for the Organization's Members have been reiterated many times by the overwhelming majority of United Nations Members, and recently by virtually all of the heads of State or Government during the Millennium Summit. We must also restore to the General Assembly its central role as the main deliberative body and, finally, reform the other organs, with a view to a greater revitalization of the entire United Nations system. These are the aspirations of the peoples of the United Nations — to enable this Organization to face the challenges of the twenty-first century. In his statement at the Millennium Summit, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Guinea reiterated the total commitment of our country to the principles of the United Nations and to the Charter. In this Assembly, I would like to reaffirm this commitment, which has never been found wanting in the history of my country. Under the leadership of its President, General Lansana Conté, a man of peace and dialogue, Guinea has always struggled to uplift human dignity, to defend freedom, to restore peace and to cultivate harmony among peoples. Guinea will continue, side by side with other Member States of our Organization, to work resolutely to free humankind from the spectre of war, violence, exclusion and intolerance, and for a world of peace, justice and solidarity for all.Allow me to join my colleagues in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I am confident that this fifty-fifth session will be most effective and successful under your guidance. I would also like to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Gurirab, for his skilful leadership, and I welcome Tuvalu to the United Nations as a new Member. Here in this great city just two weeks ago, an unprecedented number of heads of State gathered and outlined the challenges facing the world in the new millennium, together with their nations' achievements and their visions for the future. It is true that the myriad views expressed differed in perspective, focus, attitude and outlook, but it is also true that the leaders of the world left the Summit having renewed their common commitment to universal values and principles and to a more peaceful and prosperous world. All these were clearly reflected in the Secretary- General's report and the Millennium Declaration, which provide us with a blueprint for a common agenda in the years to come. This is a global agenda to meet global goals, but, as is often said, all politics is local and everything begins at home. Therefore, in the final analysis, it is each individual State that must take up the responsibility in its own country and region to make a difference that will have a cumulative impact on the quality of the world in which we all live. Armenia is cognizant of its own responsibility and is committed to doing its part to enhance regional peace and security and to elevate the quality of life of everyone involved. The Secretary-General's millennium report groups our global challenges under three blunt headings: freedom from want, freedom from fear and the freedom of future generations to sustain their lives on this planet. Globalization is expected to drive economic development around the world in order to allow future generations to sustain their lives and to make possible the kind of economic self-sufficiency we all want for our peoples. The major task of Governments around the world today is the pursuit of sound policies and appropriate structural adjustments to meet the challenges that globalization presents and to take advantage of the opportunities it offers without falling victim to the hazards it threatens. At the same time, the revolution in communication and information technologies has opened up the global market to new players. Information technology and the Internet have become the moving engines for economic growth and, at the same time, if used appropriately, its great equalizers. They hold the promise of unlimited progress and allow even small and landlocked countries to take advantage of global access in almost every area of their lives. Armenia is fully cognizant of this and has made information technology development the axis of its economic growth. We have already taken concrete steps towards bolstering the development of information technology and telecommunications and, together with foreign investors, have begun preliminary work towards an information technology industrial park on the outskirts of the capital. At the same time, well aware that Armenia's educational system must be up to matching this call for infusing the existing intellectual capacity and talent with new skills, we will ensure that education curriculums include computer literacy and Internet familiarity. By 2005, all our schools will have computer capabilities with unlimited Internet access. Freedom from want and freedom from fear go hand in hand. Without a free, democratic, open system at home and peace and security in our neighbourhood, it is not possible to achieve economic prosperity. During the nine years since the establishment of Armenia's independence, we have made great strides in anchoring democratic values, the rule of law and respect for human rights in our society. This year, with Armenia's membership in the Council of Europe, these processes will become irreversible. The responsibilities associated with membership will strengthen and reinforce all that has been achieved to date. Economic prosperity also hinges on regional stability. At the same time, long-term peace, security and prosperity in our region depend on its equitable economic development and the development of multifaceted economic arrangements among countries and regional organizations. It is apparent that the new environment of coexistence requires new approaches from international organizations. Regional and subregional integration has become politically and economically expedient. This is especially true in the Caucasus, which is emerging as a region for competing political and economic interests. We look at our security not only in a bilateral, but also in the broader regional European context. We are convinced that, in the long run, our national security must be anchored in regional stability. We are confident that economic cooperation will help us transcend political problems and facilitate the resolution of political issues. A stable and democratic Caucasus is a work in progress. Still, the promise of democracy in the region must not shroud the fragility of the emergent equilibrium. We recognize and welcome the constructive role that the United Nations and other international organizations — such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Council of Europe, the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and the Commonwealth of Independent States — can and must play to consolidate this regional equilibrium. Armenia intends to expand its cooperation within those organizations and more actively to participate in various regional institutions. These diverse bodies, however, must not, by the uneven or inconsistent application of their principles, exacerbate existing regional disparities. Armenia is confident that the Caucasus is in need of a regional system for stability and security and we stand ready to work towards its formation. We were the first to propose, last year at the OSCE Istanbul Summit, the beginning of a process towards comprehensive regional security leading to a stability pact for the region. Armenia has adopted and will abide by its policy of complementarity, conducting relations with all countries which have political or economic interests in the Caucasus. This approach has worked quite effectively over the past several years and we believe that it has contributed to the reduction of polarization and tension in the region. However, the region continues to remain adversely affected by the lack of formal relations between Armenia and our neighbour, Turkey. Although Armenia, from day one of its independence, opted for the normalization of relations and the establishment of diplomatic ties, Turkey insisted and continues to insist on certain conditions related to Nagorny Karabakh and the recognition of the Armenian genocide. Ten days ago at the Summit, from this podium President Kocharian addressed this issue and extended a hand to our neighbour in order that we might together find a way to live with the truth of the past without jeopardizing the promise of the future. Unfortunately, Turkey's response indicated that it continues to let the fear of history limit its freedom to act. However, there is no national history in a vacuum. France and Germany, England and France, the United States and Japan, in order to transcend their histories of conflict, war and hatred, had to transcend the past together. Indeed, many nations have founded their spiritual and moral resurrection on exorcising their guilt, on the search for validation through truth, on facing their own past squarely. Redemption and reconciliation without truth will remain forever elusive. The Millennium Summit Declaration addressed a topic that is very important in relation to Armenians' right to freedom from fear. The Millennium Declaration provided for the right to self-determination of peoples who remain under colonial domination and foreign occupation. In Nagorny Karabakh, there was both colonial domination by the Soviets and foreign occupation by Azerbaijan, which was illegally and unjustly given jurisdiction over the Armenian region in 1923. For a people whose compatriots lay just over the border, but out of reach, such a divisive act and the ensuing double layer of subjugation was untenable. During the decades of Soviet rule and then after the collapse of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the Armenians of Nagorny Karabakh resorted to demanding their right to self-determination, the refusal of which led to military conflict, refugees and loss of life. During the last six years, the military phase of the conflict has ceased, and Armenia remains committed to a lasting resolution that will provide for peace and security for Nagorny Karabakh, with a continuous geographical link with Armenia. We will continue to work intensely with the co-chairs of the Minsk Group and wish to underscore their contribution to maintaining the ceasefire regime. With equal fervour, we are ready to maintain direct contacts with Azerbaijan in order to search for compromise. However, we think that direct negotiations between Azerbaijan and Nagorny Karabakh would be more productive, as it is the people of Karabakh who will ultimately determine their own destiny and future. 12 In his report the Secretary-General rightly stated that today more wars are being fought within States than between them. Yet no attempt is being made to address this new challenge in a more effective, meaningful and realistic way. Each conflict must ultimately be addressed on its own terms, and through the actions and the accommodations of its own peoples and its political leaders. What the international community can do is provide not only the support and the potential incentives for this process of transformation, but also the intellectual, conceptual models for exploring appropriate and suitable arrangements for the resolution of seemingly intractable conflicts. We believe that in designing appropriate frameworks within which hostile parties can find a common language, reassurances may be designed in a flexible manner which must be specifically geared to addressing particular types of conflicts. If I may be allowed a truism, we should think along the lines of “form follows function”. The function of the probable solutions that must emerge, as well as the broad outline of an eventual peace agreement, must rely, we believe, on devices or principles that are tailor-made, highly specific and perhaps even unique. Without that kind of customization, we believe that generic, standard-issue formulas will not be well-suited to the resolution of the conflict in which we find ourselves at this moment deeply involved, and whose long-term outcome is of great concern to us. For us, peace in Nagorny Karabakh represents, of course, the promise of transforming a situation of hostility and confrontation with our neighbour, Azerbaijan, into one of cooperation and mutually reinforced security. We would like to think of the day when Karabakh is transformed from being a chasm separating our countries into a bridge built for the benefit of all the populations concerned. The political document adopted by the Millennium Summit sets the guidelines for the development of the United Nations in the coming years. Armenia is confident that this Organization, given its outstanding role and track record, has the capacity to address the new challenges in a most satisfactory manner. The vast experience accumulated over the last five decades can be successfully applied to secure peace and stability all over the world. However, in response to today's new challenges and new demands, United Nations reforms must be carried through to strengthen this dynamic organization. With the proposed expansion of the Security Council, that strategic body will become more representative, and its decisions will be endowed with greater authority. May the twenty-first century be the one that sees all nations united in shared goals and collective action.  I wish sincerely to congratulate the President on his election to preside over the work of the Millennium Assembly. I would also like to express my appreciation for the work of his predecessor, Foreign Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab, which culminated in the recent Millennium Summit. I also welcome Tuvalu as a new Member State of the United Nations. I am sure that it will make a useful and enriching contribution to the work of the Organization. What kind of United Nations do we want? Why, and to what purpose, do we need the United Nations in this new millennium? The Millennium Summit was convened to answer those questions. The task of the General Assembly is to devise and implement the guidelines that the Summit proposed. Spain would like to suggest some ideas for progress in three of the Organization's basic spheres of action: managing globalization, combating poverty and peace-making. The United Nations that we want must be our main instrument for meeting the many challenges of globalization. Its universal nature places our Organization in an ideal position for that purpose. It would be unforgivable if it were not capable of rising to that task, which has to be undertaken in very different fields. One such area is human rights. The process of the universalization of human rights constitutes one of the United Nations most valuable contributions to international relations since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in 1948. If the twentieth century has been one of formulating and structuring human rights on the international level, the next century must be that of ensuring that their effective implementation is universal. The practices in most urgent need of elimination are racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance. The 2001 World Conference against Racism must be an effective instrument to that end. We must also strive to abolish the death penalty, which we consider a punishment contrary to the dignity of the human being. The adoption of moratoriums against carrying it out could be a first step towards its total ban. Our Organization must also enable us to provide solutions, in a spirit of solidarity, to humanitarian problems that until recently have simply not been addressed. The consequences have been borne by defenceless civilian populations. I refer to the situation of refugees and persons displaced within their own countries, civilian victims of armed conflicts and international aid workers who are subject to threats or coercion. It is essential to broaden the scope of our action in this area and to pay special attention to the most vulnerable sectors of the population. Last week, in this very city, the President of the Spanish Government signed the two Optional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, relative to children in armed conflict and on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. In that same vein, the General Assembly this year adopted a resolution (54/262) agreeing to the holding in Spain in 2002 of the Second World Assembly on Ageing. We shall do everything possible to ensure the success of such an important event. In this overall context, we must mention the issue of so-called humanitarian intervention, aptly proposed on more than one occasion by the Secretary-General. The United Nations that we want cannot be an Organization that remains paralysed in the face of massive violations of human rights, wherever they may take place. When that has occurred, its prestige has been seriously affected, and it has been left out of basic decision-making in times of crisis. The disgust provoked by a passive stance in the face of those atrocities and the need to strengthen the role of the 37 Organization in crisis situations are merely two sides of the same coin. It is essential that we be capable of building consensus on at least two fundamental issues. The first is actions regarding which the international community cannot remain idle, such as war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, which are offences referred to in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Consensus should also be reached among the permanent members of the Security Council over the cases in which they should refrain from exercising their veto to block Council resolutions aimed at putting an end to massive violations of human rights. The principle of State sovereignty continues to be essential in contemporary international society, but it must not be used as a protective shield to trample upon human rights with impunity. The establishment of the International Criminal Court signals the direction in which the international community is moving in that area. The creation of an international system of criminal justice constitutes the most important change in international law since the adoption of the San Francisco Charter. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that my country's process of ratification of the Rome Statute concluded yesterday. I hope that the International Criminal Court will become a reality in the not-too-distant future. I trust therefore that the Rome Statute will be signed and ratified by the largest possible number of States, without directly or indirectly affecting its integrity and effectiveness. If there is one issue that makes us realize that there are global interests demanding our collective management it is that of environmental protection. It is imperative that the Kyoto Protocol for combating the greenhouse effect should come into force in 2002, at the latest. Spain is a signatory of the Protocol, as well as of the agreements on the ozone layer, bio-diversity, bio-security and desertification — the latter problem being one which especially affects my country. Unfortunately, globalization has also generated fresh opportunities for the development of universal plagues such as terrorism and transnational organized crime. However, globalization also provides us with new instruments to combat them, provided we agree on how to use them. Spain supports the drafting of a general convention against international terrorism, and is grateful to India for its initiative in that respect. The work aimed at the adoption of a convention against transnational organized crime must also be concluded. One of the United Nations top priorities is the fight against poverty. The Millennium Summit gave special attention to measures aimed at eradicating poverty. The specific implementation of those measures must be a basic aspect of the work of the General Assembly. The United Nations that we want must make it possible for developed and developing countries to conclude agreements regarding the role they must play in that task. The high-level meetings that will be held in 2001 on financing for development and on the least developed countries must not be wasted. Spain will certainly do everything within its power to contribute to their success. My country follows the guidelines produced by the World Summit for Social Development suggesting that at least 20 per cent of cooperation resources be devoted to basic social sectors such as health, education, housing and employment, which have the greatest impact on the most disadvantaged sectors of the population and, as a result, on the eradication of poverty. Spain has prepared an ambitious microcredit programme aimed at meeting the needs of the least favoured sectors of the population of developing countries. Likewise, Spain has begun debt relief programmes in several countries, including Mozambique and the Central American countries most affected by hurricane Mitch. We resolutely support the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative. Medium- income countries with serious external debt problems should not be excluded from debt relief plans, as long as they implement meaningful domestic programmes to eradicate poverty. In the health sector there have been severe setbacks in recent years in the fight against infectious diseases, especially in Africa. Spain actively backs the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and the efforts under way to facilitate access to drugs against AIDS for patients in developing countries. It also supports the holding of a special session of the General Assembly on that illness. Moreover, Spain has a special interest in examining possible action against other infectious and parasitic diseases, particularly in Africa. The first sentence of the Charter states the resolve of the United Nations to save succeeding generations 38 from the scourge of war. We must not resign ourselves to the indefinite prolongation of some regional conflicts. In Africa a solution has not yet been found for the situation in the Congo, which for years has ravaged one of the richest and most influential countries of the continent. Angola and Sierra Leone continue to be the backdrop for civilian conflicts that are often financed by the illegal sale of diamonds and other precious resources. Political and practical support for the United Nations and the mission deployed on the ground has been a constant feature of Spain's policy concerning the dispute over Western Sahara. Therefore, my country will maintain its commitment to a definitive settlement of that dispute during this decisive time and will support the efforts that the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy are making in compliance with Security Council resolution 1309 (2000). New prospects for peace have opened up in the Middle East following the Camp David summit. It is vital to consolidate the important progress made there and take advantage of this historic opportunity to conclude an agreement on all outstanding issues. Spain considers that, pursuant to the Declaration of Berlin, the Palestinian people are entitled to establish their own state. The evolution of the peace process must be reflected in the resolutions to be adopted this year by the General Assembly, which must not be a mechanical repetition of the wording used in previous years. The situation in Iraq is nevertheless proving to be frustrating. The interruption of weapons inspections, the absence of any foreseeable date for the lifting of the sanctions, the continuation of armed action and the difficult humanitarian situation in the country all combine to produce a situation that is far from encouraging. It is imperative that consensus within the Security Council on this matter be strengthened and that Iraq collaborate with the United Nations with a view to the full implementation of resolution 1284 (1999) and other relevant resolutions. Turning to Latin America, it is vital that the international community send a clear message of support for the peace process in Colombia. The efforts by President Pastrana to reach an agreement that will put an end to decades of violence and lack of security deserve the support of us all. The difficulties faced by the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo in the accomplishment of its tasks should not overshadow its achievements to date in what is probably the peacekeeping operation with the widest-ranging objectives ever undertaken by the United Nations. Those objectives are to pacify the territory, to reconcile its population, to rebuild its economy, and to enable Kosovo, as stated in resolution 1244 (1999), to enjoy substantial autonomy and an administration that is truly its own, while respecting the principle of territorial sovereignty and integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Many of these conflicts could perhaps have been avoided. Spain unreservedly supports the Secretary- General's efforts to direct the Organization's conflict- prevention. His report on Africa provides an innovative approach, proposing a wide-ranging package of measures to address the conflicts on the African continent. An important element in this arsenal of preventive diplomatic measures is a sound sanctions policy. Sanctions regimes must be carefully graduated in order to fulfil their goal: to penalize a particular government whose policies constitute a threat to peace, without harming the civilian population of that country, which in many cases is totally powerless to influence the decisions of its Government, or third parties. Sanctions must be applied in a flexible way and be subject to periodic review, enabling them to be adapted to changing circumstances. Disarmament and non-proliferation are another two essential elements of conflict prevention. It is vital to overcome the setbacks suffered in recent months by the nuclear non-proliferation process and to promote the signing and ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty, with a view to its early entry in force. It is likewise a matter of concern that it has not yet been possible to start negotiations on a protocol on fissile material; it is urgent to achieve the necessary consensus to that end. The conclusion of the negotiations on the Verification Protocol to the Convention on Biological Weapons represents an achievement in this field that is as important as the entry into force of the Convention on Chemical Weapons. In the same way, the 2001 United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects must constitute a milestone comparable to the Ottawa Convention banning anti-personnel mines. 39 Another of the United Nations goals must be to conclude the decolonization process worldwide by doing away with the last vestiges of colonialism. One of them persists, as a painful anachronism, in Spanish territory. I am, of course, referring to Gibraltar, where, nearly three centuries after its population was expelled and the Rock occupied by British troops, a colonial situation still lingers. This is an infringement of my country's territorial integrity and contravenes the provisions of General Assembly resolution 2353 (XXII). Regaining sovereignty over this part of our territory is a longstanding goal for Spain, which is fully in favour of a meaningful dialogue. It is regrettable that the United Kingdom has not yet shown a genuine political will to resolve this problem. Because of this, 15 years after the start of bilateral talks in the framework of the Brussels process and despite the decisions of the General Assembly, we have not registered any progress at all on this matter, in spite of several concrete proposals put forward by our side. We want a United Nations that is capable of carrying out the tasks that have been entrusted to it. To achieve this, it must complete its process of reform. For instance, the role of the General Assembly — the only body in which all the Member States are represented — must be enhanced, as it is the United Nations driving force for debate and political impetus. Civil society should be incorporated to a greater extent into the Organization's work. This would contribute to bringing people closer to the United Nations and to securing a greater commitment from them with regard to its work. It is also vital to reform the Security Council in order to enable it to fully perform its duties in the maintenance of international peace and security. The Spanish Government believes that this reform must draw its inspiration from the following principles. First, it must be conducted on the basis of a broad and solid consensus, in order to avoid dangerous divisions among Member States and to provide the enlarged Council with the greater legitimacy it needs to carry out its work effectively. In the context of democratization, it must allow for an increase in the number of non-permanent members from all regional groups, and especially from the developing world. Spain considers that an enlargement of this category of non-permanent members would best reflect the trend towards the democratization of international society at the dawn of the third millennium. To enhance the Council's effectiveness, steps must be taken to prevent exercise of the veto power from blocking the Council in certain crisis situations. Finally, there must be greater transparency. The Council's working methods must be improved by increasing the number and quality of the consultations among its members and with other Member States, so that the latter will not be left out of the decision- making process. The Organization that we need must also be able to act firmly and effectively on the ground in order to maintain the peace. The first step in this direction is to reflect on past mistakes. Therein lies the importance of the Brahimi report on United Nations peace operations, which — in the same way as former reports on Rwanda and Srebrenica — hit a nerve when it acknowledged our faults and proposed solutions for overcoming them. The Organization's shortcomings in this field have at times been very serious, and have cost human lives and brought great suffering to the peoples directly affected. They have also seriously discredited the United Nations in the eyes of our peoples. Spain has a direct interest in ensuring that peacekeeping operations are well organized and managed, because at this time hundreds of Spaniards are participating in them in such faraway places as East Timor, Kosovo, Ethiopia and Guatemala. Moreover, last year Spain signed an agreement with the Secretariat on the Stand-by Forces — an agreement in which some of the recommendations contained in the Brahimi report already appear. Spain steadfastly supports these recommendations and hopes that they will be rapidly implemented. At the same time, we must be aware that all of this will require a much greater political and financial commitment on the part of all with respect to peacekeeping operations. It will require faster deployment of the necessary military and civilian units and larger-scale measures in order to consolidate peace once conflicts come to an end. Above all, if United Nations troops are compelled to take greater risks in order to guarantee the implementation of Security Council mandates, such mandates must be clear, realistic and have the unequivocal backing of the Council. All this will require a serious effort to find 40 common positions and to achieve consensus within the Council in the elaboration of the resolutions containing such mandates, eliminating any ambiguities that could hamper their effective application. It means more resolute and unwavering action against specific States or groups which may attempt to disrupt such action, including the possible application of sanctions. Only then will we be able to send our troops to situations in which they will have to risk their lives in order to ensure that such mandates are upheld. Improving peacekeeping operations will undoubtedly be costly. Neither this nor any of the other tasks facing the Organization will be possible if it does not resolve its financial crisis. Spain is the eighth- largest contributor to its regular budget and pays its contributions on time, in full and without conditions. Therefore we have a direct interest in seeing the Organization's financial crisis resolved once and for all, as soon as possible. The principle of capacity to pay must continue to be the basic criterion for deciding the assessed contributions. European Union countries already are contributing much more than they should to the United Nations budget in accordance with this principle. Spain's stance will be a constructive one in the negotiations to review the scale of assessments later this fall. In an increasingly interdependent world, there is no alternative to multilateral cooperation. The United Nations must rise to the occasion in order to fulfil the expectations of the peoples who founded it. The countries represented here must face up to that responsibility by building an Organization capable of meeting the challenges posed by globalization in the new millennium. The United Nations that we want is possible. It is within our reach to achieve it.Still fresh in our minds is the strong plea made by the leaders of the world at their historic meeting on the eve of this fifty-fifth Assembly for a universal recommitment to multilateralism and to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. Their Declaration at the Summit's end was unanimous and unambiguous. Humanity's future lies in the hands of this Organization and its ability to create a new global order for the promotion of peace and development. It is a conclusion which the Assembly must take to heart if it is to fulfil this urgent mandate. I am confident that our task will be facilitated by our President's skilful direction. Coming from Finland, a country that has been forged by history on the anvil of political, economic and social endurance, he will undoubtedly bring to bear on our deliberations a sense of purpose and urgency. In congratulating him on his election, Guyana pledges a readiness to cooperate to make this Assembly abundantly successful. My delegation also offers its appreciation and thanks to His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab for the able leadership he provided the fifty-fourth General Assembly. Our gratitude is also due to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who continues to manage the Organization with a sure and steady hand. The report that he submitted to the Assembly, “We the peoples — the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century”, amply addresses the many important challenges that lie ahead of us. It is well worth our study to see what measures the Assembly can take to promote global peace and development through strengthening of the Organization. As the report demonstrates, a high level of tension now exists in the governance of the global economy. While it has been generally acknowledged that markets offer opportunities for growth and development, there is still the caveat against excessive reliance on them. As many developing countries have discovered, the market is often blind to their particular circumstances and needs. Their concerns have raised serious questions about the fairness of the trading system, leading to much public protest, as was dramatically expressed in Seattle and almost every city where the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization (WTO) have tried to hold meetings. The message is clear: the international community must find a consensus on ways and means to ensure more democratic governance in international affairs so that the developing countries can have a greater say in shaping their own future. The gap between the richest and poorest countries has widened so dramatically during recent years that strong and urgent action must be taken to avoid a major human disaster. For most developing countries such as my own, a scarcity of financial and human resources places serious constraints on the policy options they are able to exercise. Despite the fact that many have embraced market-based reforms and democratic governance, they have had limited success in improving the socio-economic conditions of their people. Their efforts to undertake important reforms and to lift themselves up by their boot-straps have been rewarded by a denial of much-needed assistance to sustain the progress achieved. The hostile international environment in which they find themselves not only 21 frustrates their economic and social development but also renders the strengthening of the democratic process extremely difficult. Thus, while globalization has benefited strong economies, it has weakened many developing countries and forced them into the backwaters of development. Severe economic and social dislocation has followed in many cases, accentuating the particular vulnerabilities of small economies, many of which are often dependent on a single agriculture crop for the livelihood of their peoples. While the proponents of economic liberalization contend that the market offers “a level playing field”, they conveniently forget and fail to realize that the players are not equally matched and that the rules of the game are stacked in favour of the strong. The weak can hardly compete and are eventually marginalized. Indeed, it is a zero-sum game, where both winners and losers are known in advance. The majority of developing countries continue to be crippled by weak infrastructure such as roads, communications and other physical requirements and the inadequacy of skilled labour to take advantage of opportunities in the market. Moreover, they must face not only high production costs but also low prices and inadequate access to markets. Trade liberalization has also led to a rapid growth in imports by developing countries, while their own exports remain sluggish and their trade deficit widens. In the process, Governments lose much-needed revenues from duties and taxes, which hitherto made an appreciable contribution to the national budget. Meanwhile, official development assistance has fallen to its lowest since the target of 0.7 per cent of Gross National Product (GNP) was established by the United Nations in 1970. Only four countries — Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden — have reached the mark. On average, developed countries contribute less than a third of this target figure, with the richest countries contributing even less. Assistance is now apparently seen by some as both wasteful and wasted, a perception which may serve to explain this rapid decline. Yet for many of the poor developing countries, such assistance is indispensable if they are to improve their economic performance. To make matters worse, they find it difficult without the requisite technology and human resource base to attract foreign direct investment, which is increasingly concentrated in a small number of emerging economies. The challenge facing the international community and policy-makers in the new millennium, therefore, is to redress these inequities in the global economy in a comprehensive and sustainable manner so as to ensure the smooth integration of developing countries, in particular the smaller economies, into the globalizing world economy. Developing countries are not asking for charity — merely the opportunity to develop their potential and to take their rightful place in the international community. As they have said, they recognize their primary responsibility for their own development. They ask only for assistance in creating a domestic environment that will enable them to participate fairly in the global economy. A helpful measure would be to integrate transition periods into current economic models and make provisions for targeted assistance to small economies. Another would be to provide significant debt relief and debt cancellation as necessary, together with development assistance to boost the overall productive capability of developing countries. Developed countries could also assist in promoting regional integration, as well as South-South cooperation, to allow developing countries to benefit from the many complementarities that they possess. Equally indispensable is the provision of new and additional resources through the establishment of a global development fund that would help to bridge the gap between the developed and developing worlds. An action-oriented programme, somewhat along the lines of the post-Second World War Marshall Plan, is necessary to achieve meaningful progress. Policies aimed merely at creating unsustainable social safety nets are hardly lasting solutions. The root causes of the social and endemic problems of the developing countries, which ultimately lead to global instability, must be addressed. To this end, we must find a way to direct aid and investment into building capital, both human and physical. We cannot speak seriously of closing the digital divide in an environment in which many Governments are struggling to meet even the most basic needs of their populations and where degraded infrastructure does not support a “communications revolution”. In this context, we have noted the Secretary- General's initiative to forge a global compact between the United Nations, the private sector and non- governmental organizations in an effort to maximize 22 the development effort. Such a strategic alliance can indeed enhance cooperation on a wide array of global issues, including aid, trade and investment, and protection of the environment as well as satisfy urgent education, health and housing needs. To succeed, however, such a compact must be based on mutual understanding and respect through a clear definition of the respective roles of the partners. There must be common objectives and agendas, as well as a clear definition of the roles of each partner. Finally, the international community, and more particularly the developed North, must recognize the close link between freedom from want and freedom from fear — between development, peace and stability. At the national level, we know that good governance must be practised to ensure that the population are protected from all forms of oppression and allowed to enjoy their inalienable human rights. Correspondingly, at the international level, the principles of the Charter, as well as the laws which we, as civilized nations, have come to accept, must be respected to provide an environment conducive to development. In chapter IV of his report the Secretary-General remarks: “Economic globalization has largely eliminated the benefits of territorial acquisition, while the destructiveness of modern warfare has increased its costs.” (A/54/2000, para. 192) This lesson must be learned by States which, despite their professed commitment to the Charter, often resort to various forms of coercion in international relations. The United Nations, and more particularly the Security Council, should not — and, indeed, must not — tolerate such actions. All disputes must be resolved through peaceful means. While many of the proposals made by the Secretary-General in his report will undoubtedly help to contain the threats to peace and development in the twenty-first century, we rather fear that they will be insufficient to meet our requirements if they are pursued in a piecemeal fashion without a more comprehensive and holistic framework. It is for this reason that Guyana sought the inclusion on this year's agenda of an item on promoting a new global human order. Time does not allow me to provide the details of this initiative. However, so that the concept may be more fully understood and widely supported, I have asked that, along with copies of my statement, an explanatory memorandum outlining the aim of our proposal be circulated. Very shortly we will also make available a more extensive document that could serve as the basis for discussion in plenary session. It is our hope that out of this consideration will emerge a resolution that expresses the determination of the international community to find a consensus on the way forward to securing global peace and development. The time is now opportune, I believe, for us to summon up our collective political will to devise a common and cogent strategy for managing the global agenda in the twenty-first century. Should we fail to heed this imperative, we will continue to plough the sea and reap only disillusionment and despair. This Millennium Assembly affords us a singular opportunity to define the terms and conditions of a new global partnership. Let us not waste it in futile debate, but, rather, use it to give new hope to our peoples for a better future.  On behalf of the people and Government of Papua New Guinea, I join previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to your prestigious post. Your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at the dawn of the new millennium shows the high esteem in which the international community holds both you personally and your country, Finland. We are confident that you will guide the historic fifty- fifth session to a successful conclusion. The skill with which your predecessor, Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab of Namibia, cooperated to develop the theme of the recent Millennium Summit, and presided over the drafting of the outcome document and ensured the smooth management of the Summit earned our sincere appreciation for a job very well done. We also congratulate him on his very positive contribution to our collective deliberations during the previous year. May I also take this opportunity, through you, Sir, to heartily congratulate the heads of State of both Finland and Namibia on their magnanimous stewardship and successful conclusion of the recent unprecedented large assembly of approximately 150 heads of State and Government in New York, which paved the way for the pursuit of our common vision and security into the twenty-first century. Beyond the millennium celebrations, this is a time for reflection and looking ahead. The Millennium Summit took place on the eve of the twenty-fifth anniversary of Papua New Guinea's independence. The same anniversary also marks the first quarter century of my country's membership of the United Nations. It is therefore an apt occasion both for reflecting on experience and for looking ahead. My particular focus is on the changing character of, need for and potential for international cooperation. The conjunction of the millennium with Papua New Guinea's silver anniversary invites us to take a number of different time perspectives: the short, medium and long terms. For those of us who have been privileged to play an active part in public life during this period, it also provides the opportunity to compare the ambitions we had 25 years ago with the challenges we face now. As the Secretary-General recently reminded us in the very title of the document (A/54/2000) he prepared to guide and stimulate the Millennium Summit, the United Nations was formed in the name and with the objective of furthering the common purposes of “We the peoples of the United Nations”. In similar fashion, the Constitution that came into effect when my country became independent was made and adopted in the name of “We the people of Papua New Guinea”. 2 As someone who had the honour of participating in making the Papua New Guinea Constitution, I am very mindful of the national goals and directive principles we set for ourselves at independence. While some have a distinctively national character — such as preserving, developing and building on Papua New Guinean ways — others resemble challenges that the United Nations faces today. They include such universal challenges as promoting integral human development, equity and participation, and sustainable use of natural resources and the environment. They also include the challenge of maintaining, strengthening and making mutually beneficial use of national sovereignty and self-reliance. But look at us now. What have we achieved? What remains to be done? The most striking feature of contemporary Papua New Guinea is the way in which we have had to trim our objectives. Our situation is, obviously, not unique, but it certainly warrants the most careful consideration. When the present Government, led by the Prime Minister, The Honourable Sir Mekere Morauta, came to office in the middle of last year, we set ourselves five very carefully defined objectives: to restore integrity to State institutions; to stabilize our national currency — the kina — and the national budget; to remove obstacles to investment and growth; and to continue the process of working for lasting peace in Bougainville by peaceful means. The national goals and directive principles continue to guide our long-term ambitions and plans. But experience and the realities of governance in the age of globalization have required us to focus on much more specific, short- and medium-term objectives. We cannot blame others — or even such largely impersonal processes as economic and technological globalization — for every aspect of our current situation. Much of the responsibility lies with leaders and institutions at home. Both fortunately and unfortunately, it is part of the human condition at the start of the twenty-first century that we are not on our own. Despite important differences in origins, processes and outcomes, our situation is not unique. Many other developing countries face similar challenges in the short and medium terms. International cooperation is an important key to collective self-help, both between countries with similar weaknesses and strengths, and between countries that are different and complementary — especially rich and poor. As regards global cooperation, as a member of the global community Papua New Guinea is able to draw on support from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, our development cooperation partners in Europe, and the Asia-Pacific countries that have formed themselves into the Friends of Papua New Guinea. While my delegation has come to New York to discuss global issues and explore the potential for global cooperation, Papua New Guinea also participates in various forms of regional, interregional and bilateral cooperation. Papua New Guinea recognizes the value of, and is firmly committed to further strengthening, global cooperation through bodies like the World Trade Organization (WTO). My Government is disappointed that the next round of World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations has been delayed, and calls for them to be held at the earliest possible opportunity. As one of the countries where increasing areas of land are already becoming unusable or actually disappearing as a result of rising sea-levels caused by climate change, we believe in the urgent need for full implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. On an issue where the very survival of certain members of the global community is clearly at stake — and where global security depends on coordinated global action — there must be no backsliding, no compromises, and no special cases allowed because of inability or unwillingness to honour global agreements for whatever reason. Papua New Guinea is pleased to welcome our close island neighbours and very good friends from Tuvalu to membership of the United Nations. What a terrible tragedy it would be if the international community were to fail them at the very time when they, together with other small island States — including countries which joined the United Nations last year — are assuming the responsibilities which go with becoming full participants in the Organization's affairs. Certain security issues, such as climate change, require a global approach. So do efforts to limit the 3 proliferation that would bring about the complete elimination of nuclear weapons. Global cooperation is the only means by which the international community can realistically hope to achieve the objective which the Secretary-General set for the Millennium Summit of ensuring that globalization becomes a positive force for people, instead of leaving them behind in squalor, especially in developing countries. However, as the Secretary-General also suggested in his report (A/54/1) to the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly, different regions have different problems. Even similar problems in different settings may require different approaches. Security policies that work in one region may not work in others. The road to success can require complementary national, regional and global efforts. Thus, Papua New Guinea is addressing the unwelcome spread of small arms and light weapons by imposing a complete ban on the issuance of new gun licenses. We support efforts to deal with the spread of illegally obtained or held arms through the Pacific Islands Forum. We look to the forthcoming United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects to provide a global framework and global support for the efforts that individual States and regional organizations are taking to deal with the problem within their respective jurisdictions. When it comes to the management of ocean resources, Papua New Guinea sees regional and interregional cooperation as complementary to measures designed to ensure the sustainable harvesting of fish in national waters. We therefore welcome the agreement recently concluded under the auspices of the Multilateral High- level Conference on fisheries with the purpose of ensuring sustainable fishing for tuna and highly migratory species throughout their ranges in the Western and Central Pacific. Papua New Guinea would also like to see both broader and deeper cooperation between coastal States in other aspects of oceans and ocean-bed management, including deep-sea mining. In terms of regional cooperation, such cooperation is indispensable to dealing successfully with many important global and national issues. But regional cooperation can itself have a variety of different dimensions and employ different means. In the South Pacific, for example, two of our closest neighbours, Fiji and Solomon Islands, are experiencing internal difficulties that have given rise to serious concern on the part of their friends. We do not condone the illegal overthrow of democratic and constitutional Governments or other threats to the security of the Governments and citizens of other States, but, regrettably, and despite repeated efforts by previous Papua New Guinea Governments and other States, the main intra-regional body engaged in promoting regional cooperation in the South Pacific, the Pacific Islands Forum, does not have a mechanism for dealing promptly and effectively with challenges to the security of States in the region. It has, therefore, been unable to arrange consultations, let alone facilitate a coordinated approach to the situations which have arisen following armed challenges to the Governments of Fiji and Solomon Islands. Some of our neighbours have responded by looking for support outside the region. With the recent addition of six additional Pacific members to the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of States party to the Lome Convention, 14 Pacific island States now have access to a very practical mechanism for dealing with such situations. The upshot is that, when Ministers and Ambassadors from Pacific ACP member States met in Cotonou, Benin, in June for the signing of the new framework agreement between the ACP and the European Union, we decided to set up a ministerial mission to report on the situations in Fiji and Solomon Islands. In doing so, we were mindful of the need for, and grateful for the support of, the European Union. The offer made by the French Minister for Economic Cooperation at the regional forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) to ensure that the European Commission would defer making a final decision on sanctions until the Pacific ACP Ministerial Mission had reported was especially welcome because of the meaning and support it gave to our effort at regional cooperation. 4 The imposition of sanctions against a country can be a very blunt instrument indeed, causing innocent and powerless people to suffer at the same time as the powerful and influential, and sometimes disadvantaging them even more. Even so-called smart sanctions can have wide, unintended effects while leaving their objects largely unaffected. When a small group of armed men try to take over a Government, imposing sanctions that affect innocent men, women and children can be not only ineffective but even counter-productive. Sanctions might leave armed youths unaffected and in a position where they are even unable to appreciate, or are indifferent to, the wider consequences of their actions. The underlying causes of inter-group tensions in Solomon Islands and the events which followed the attempted civilian armed coup in Fiji could be difficult to identify, and are beyond influence by sanctions. It is, therefore, vital that serious difficulties such as those currently affecting Fiji and Solomon Islands be properly studied and carefully addressed. Sometimes, the people best equipped to understand such situations and identify underlying causes are neighbours with similar cultures or other shared values. In terms of the ACP Ministerial Mission, at the request of other Pacific ACP States, I have recently had the honour of leading the Pacific ACP Ministerial Mission to Fiji and Solomon Islands. My colleagues included the Ministers for Foreign Affairs from Cook Islands, Mr. Robert Woonton, and Vanuatu, the Honourable Serge Vohor, as well as the Minister for Education from Samoa, the Honourable Fiame Naomi Mata'afa. With the active support of the Governments of both countries, we followed a crowded itinerary of meetings with the Prime Ministers, ministers and officials in Fiji and Solomon Islands, members of the previous Governments of both countries and business and trade union leaders, as well as a wide cross-section of other elements of civil society, including women's organizations. We were also able to interview victims in towns and rural areas, and to examine instances of destruction at first hand. My colleagues and I are currently working on our report. We expect to present it to the European Commission, the ACP-EU Joint Assembly and other ACP, EU and joint bodies in October. The commitment made by the French Minister for Economic Cooperation, whose country currently holds the presidency of the EU, means that the region — or, at least, our report — has been given the opportunity to influence events. The process on which we have embarked is, therefore, more meaningful than any existing alternative. We, the Pacific ACP members, offered to share our report with the Pacific Islands Forum, and the support our initiative has received from the region reflects our commitment to wider cooperation, not to mention our unwillingness to become involved in even the appearance of competition between rival regional bodies or groups. The initiative has been welcomed and praised, both in the region and further afield. It sets an example which is worthy of close study both for the precedents it sets for cooperation among Pacific ACP States and as a possible model for similar efforts in other regions. With regard to the Bougainville situation, Fiji and Solomon Islands are not the first States in our region to experience serious internal difficulties, though we pray not only that there will be real improvement very soon but that they will be the last States to experience such difficulties. After more than eight years of armed conflict — from 1989 to 1997 — the part of Papua New Guinea known as Bougainville is now at peace. The progressive political settlement is moving ahead. The Lincoln Agreement on Peace, Security and Development on Bougainville commits the parties to peace-building on several levels, from weapons disposal and the re-establishment of civil authority, through reconciliation among former combatants to reconstruction of infrastructure, restoration of services, economic and social recovery and early resumption of the kinds of development which are part of the return of normalcy. The national Government is committed to such a multidimensional approach. It is the way by which we hope to cooperate in building for a lasting peace by peaceful means. The priority which the Prime Minister gave the Bougainville peace process more than 12 months ago remains in place. Evidence of its continuing significance can be seen in the initiative he 5 has recently taken to meet key Bougainvillean demands within the framework of the Papua New Guinea Constitution. The Government, which took the initiative in inviting our neighbours, Australia, Fiji, New Zealand and Vanuatu, to set up the neutral, regional Peace Monitoring Group (PMG), values the contribution its unarmed personnel make to promoting mutual confidence on the ground. The PMG's success can be judged from the peaceful way in which it is now beginning to disengage by substantially reducing its size. The process needs greater support from the Bougainvillean parties so as to avoid the vacuum which has followed the departure of similar peacekeeping operations elsewhere, by cooperating in the re- establishment of policing, courts and correctional institutional services, as well as by strengthening the institutions at community level that help to maintain public order, dispense justice and uphold the rule of law. As the initiator of the request for the United Nations observer mission in Bougainville, and as its host, Papua New Guinea appreciates the support which the Security Council and other organs of the United Nations provide for the Bougainville peace process. We are determined to keep on working for lasting peace by peaceful means within a flexible framework which will allow Bougainville a high degree of autonomy consistent with the integrity, security and sovereignty of the nation. With regard to social and economic issues, as a developing country with 25 years of independence, Papua New Guinea is experiencing very great difficulty in improving national performance as measured by human development indicators. In some areas, our record is actually becoming worse. The current Government's five main objectives are intended to focus attention and effort where they are most needed. Our determination to pursue them is already making a very real difference, especially as far as economic management and the delivery of Government services are concerned. Structural adjustment, including quite fundamental public sector reform, is one of the key means of bringing about often long-overdue change. We need the continuing support of our economic partners to succeed, including access to markets; increased investment in priority areas, such as downstream processing, which provides increased opportunities for productive employment; and aid on concessional terms. The recently concluded partnership agreement between the ACP countries and the EU is an example worthy of much wider emulation. As a developing country that achieved independence only a quarter of a century ago, Papua New Guinea is firmly committed to the proper preparation for orderly decolonization. Impressed with the progress being made to implement the Noumea Accord, we continue to believe very strongly that the rights of the indigenous Kanaks of New Caledonia must be respected. Conscious of the consequences of other forms of decolonization, we welcome the re- emergence of East Timor as an independent entity. We look forward to receiving a delegation later this year to discuss how we might develop technical and other forms of mutually beneficial South-South cooperation. Meanwhile, even as we continue to deepen and broaden cooperation with other Pacific island countries, we respect the integrity of our other neighbours and continue to benefit from the exchanges which flow from our status as a special observer at Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) meetings. In the broader arena of Asia-Pacific cooperation, we value our membership of the Asia- Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Forum and continue to work towards honouring the reciprocal commitments APEC members have made to liberalize markets. APEC includes some of our closest bilateral partners and friends. Common membership, and the process of developing economic ties with other APEC economies, do not detract from other aspects of Papua New Guinea's foreign relations. They do not affect the commitments we have made to such good friends as the People's Republic of China. We will not allow them to do so. In conclusion, I should like to say that, 25 years after independence, Papua New Guinea has one of the longest unbroken records of constitutional and democratic government among countries that have become independent in the last 50 or so years. We have experienced difficulties, and had some near misses. The stresses and strains which have affected our system of Government have tested our strengths. In doing so, they have increased our understanding of countries experiencing serious internal difficulties — although not our sympathy for those who deliberately violate democratic principles or established constitutional 6 practices — while reinforcing our commitment to good governance, both at home and abroad. Apart from the obvious consequences that this commitment has for Papua New Guinea's response to countries experiencing serious internal difficulties, including our preference for a positive, forward- looking approach and not negative sanctions, it also underlies our support for United Nations reform. The reform must extend from improving administrative performance to making the Security Council more representative of United Nations Members as a whole. It must, in fact, extend to the performance of United Nations Members themselves, especially when it comes to paying their dues in a timely way and in full. The millennium marks an important turning point in the calendar, and, because of my country's silver anniversary, in Papua New Guinea's history too. The United Nations is also at a critical turning point, with the Secretary-General drawing members' attention back to the original basis and focus among the people the Organization should serve. The recent review of United Nations peace and security activities has produced an excellent report which challenges us to turn another corner and ensure that the increased responsibilities which the Organization has assumed since the end of the cold war help to keep and build peace in very different conditions. I conclude by paying tribute to the vision which participants in the Millennium Summit have expressed on our behalf. In doing so, let me add that the real challenge we face is, emphatically, not to make more speeches, but to turn their wise words into practical forms of cooperation which help us achieve common purposes without sacrificing the diversity which is the basis of our need and ability to engage in global self- help.I welcome the opportunity and the honour afforded me to speak on behalf of Gabon at this session of the Assembly which, although a regular one, is no less an exceptional one. Indeed, not only does this session prepare us to enter fully into the third millennium but also, and above all, it is being held at a time in the history of humankind that gives rise to new encouraging prospects in the minds of men throughout the world for a better future. This is why, Mr. President, we welcome your election to the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the Assembly. We are in fact convinced that your qualities as a statesman and your wealth of personal experience are a guarantee for the success of our work. With this in view, Gabon, as a Vice-President, will give you its full cooperation so that this session might effectively meet our expectations. I am pleased to express my deep gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, for the efficient way in which he discharged his mandate. We, in our turn, would like to warmly welcome the State of Tuvalu, which has just joined the great family of the United Nations. I should like to pay a sincere tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his steadfast efforts to realize the ideals of our Organization. It has been 55 years since We the peoples of the United Nations decided to maintain international peace and security, to achieve international cooperation in solving international economic and social problems and in encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms without distinction as to race, language or religion. These are the primary missions set out in the United Nations Charter, which, in Article 55, recommends the creation of conditions of stability and well-being necessary for peaceful and friendly relations among and, I would add, within nations. The San Francisco Charter clearly established a close correlation between peace and development. Indeed, without peace there can be no development, and without development there can be no just and lasting peace. We acknowledge that it is difficult to create conditions of increased prosperity for the greatest number in an environment where chaos and disorder reign. In this regard, the case of Africa is particularly revealing. When, after the end of the cold war, the world seemed to be developing towards a promising situation because of the gradual reduction of inter-State conflicts, the African continent suddenly fell victim to armed confrontations of unprecedented violence. Dormant antagonisms have been reawakened, with the primary manifestation being the clash of arms and disdain for fundamental humanitarian norms. Several of our countries have come under the yoke of warlords and become chaotic, ungovernable entities that now require humanitarian assistance. Despite the 50 or so peacekeeping operations that it has undertaken since the creation of the United Nations, the Security Council has shown its limitations in the face of crises, especially in Africa. The Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Sierra Leone and Somalia are all cases that, in recent memory, have put the solidarity of the United Nations to the test. In the area of development, the world has seen unprecedented economic progress in the past 55 years. Countries that were underdeveloped not very long ago have become dynamic centres of world economic activity. But there is another fact: the vast majority of our countries and peoples remain desperately poor. In his message to commemorate the World Day of Peace, His Holiness Pope John Paul II wrote, At the beginning of a new century, the one issue which most challenges our human and Christian consciences is the poverty of countless millions of men and women. According to the report (A/55/1) of the Secretary- General on the work of the Organization dated 20 30 August 2000, almost half of the world's population must content itself with living on less than $2 per person per day. So it is that 300 million Africans do not have even $1 a day on which to subsist. Furthermore, this poverty is being made worse, in particular by the rapid spread of AIDS, another scourge that has ravaged, brought suffering to, divided and decimated entire families in Africa and throughout the world. In some African countries, AIDS has even become the main cause of death. These are factors for destabilization. While they are all different, together they create disorder and make international relations uncertain. But I do not intend merely to provide a list of all the evils with which the Assembly is only too well acquainted and the United Nations is constantly dealing. Nor should we neglect the efforts undertaken and the progress achieved. Rather, I should like to stress here I am in agreement with the Assembly that the United Nations and the multilateral system do not have sufficient resources to face these major challenges. We have been working at this for a long time now. We cannot now give in to discouragement. We are duty- bound to give the necessary impetus to our action. How are we to do this? First, by moving from a culture of war to a genuine culture of peace. Gabon's dedication to the ideal of peace, which is a constant element of its foreign policy, draws its strength from the same roots as the Bantu civilization. We have a duty to give pride of place to the virtues of dialogue and tolerance among peoples and nations virtues that we practise in our homes and families, and that my country, through the personal intercession of President Omar Bongo, a tireless mediator, has made into a principle of political and diplomatic culture. We must therefore return to our roots. That is, we should go back to those traditional precepts that have greater force today than ever before, given that today, peace is most often threatened not from outside our territories but from within. We must adapt the United Nations Charter to these new situations, in particular by adjusting the mandate of the Security Council with regard to internal crises. It is in this context that we welcome the issuance of the report of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations, presided over by Mr. Brahimi. We are convinced that this report will help to promote a new approach to peacekeeping operations. Although peacekeeping operations are necessary as a means of responding, they are nevertheless insufficient. What is at stake in the third millennium is not simply the achievement of ceasefires among adversaries in open conflicts, but the ability to nip conflicts in the bud through action designed to eliminate the deep-rooted causes of violence. An important step would be the creation or strengthening of regional security machinery to allow us to resolve conflicts through dialogue and negotiation, thus enabling us to considerably reduce military expenditure and allocate the resources thereby released to other development needs. At the subregional level, therefore, Gabon is contributing, in cooperation with the other States of Central Africa, to the establishment of a climate of confidence after implementing preventive diplomacy. The heads of State of our subregion have, for example, set up the Council for Peace and Security in Central Africa (COPAX), a body for military and political cooperation between the member States of the Economic Community of Central African States, to promote measures to maintain and consolidate peace and security. COPAX has a multinational force for Central Africa and an early-warning mechanism for Central Africa. The Gabonese Government has taken practical and financial steps for the effective start of MARAC's activities, for which it is the headquarters. However, it goes without saying that it is with the support of the United Nations and other partners that this instrument will play its role fully. In a broader regional context, a similar framework for joint action, cooperation, development, prevention, management and conflict resolution, the Gulf of Guinea commission, made up of neighbouring Nigeria and seven coastal central African States, was created on 19 November 1999 in Libreville. Finally, it is important to strength the multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation machinery. Gabon, which ratified the Convention banning anti-personnel landmines, the Convention banning chemical weapons and the Treaty banning nuclear testing, will continue to actively support international disarmament efforts by encouraging the process that has been set in motion of combating the illicit trade in light arms and small weapons. The convening, in the summer of 2001, of an 21 international conference on that trade is important, since it is quite clear that most conflicts in Africa and elsewhere in the world are fed by traffickers in arms, drugs and diamonds, and are supported by, among other things, a number of major multinational corporations that benefit from ill-gotten gains, providing arms and drugs to the conflict zones and participating in money-laundering operations. We also unreservedly support the creation of the International Criminal Court, and strongly advocate the rapid entry into force of the Rome Statute. With regard to strengthening the fight against poverty and the initiation of new cooperation in the service of development, the African continent accepts that it bears the primary responsibility for its economic recovery and that success in this task depends mainly on its own efforts. But, at a time when the world is happily entering the twenty-first century, Africa, marginalized, is prey to destitution and poverty. The scope of the crisis it is experiencing and the importance of the resources to be made available require that the international community support its efforts through increased concessional resources, expansion of commerce and trade and debt relief. Cooperation on this painful issue of poverty was discussed last January in Libreville by the heads of State and Government of sub-Saharan Africa and the Bretton Woods institutions, at a conference where a new approach to poverty eradication was proposed, with a target date of 2015. During that economic summit the heads of State and Government made recommendations on considering the continent's prospects at the dawn of the new millennium and on the challenges to be faced in speeding up economic growth and eradicating poverty. There is no doubt that poverty eradication requires much quicker economic growth, with its fruits benefiting the greatest number. In this regard, social justice is a useful guide if we wish development and economic growth to produce beneficial results that are more equitably shared. Our heads of State and Government committed themselves to redoubling their efforts to promote solid and sustainable growth in order to reduce poverty. Furthermore, they reiterated their determination to speed up the process of subregional and regional integration already begun with the creation of the African Union this year in LomÈ. An open and interdependent world needs mechanisms to retain its balance and to help promote justice by preventing aggression against individuals and nature. It also needs participation in development for all countries and peoples and efficiency in economic relations by encouraging transparency, predictability and stability in international relations. One solution would be and on this point I agree with the view of many experts for international development cooperation to cover not only assistance, but also all activities necessary to guarantee sustainable development throughout the world based on the individual. We could then agree that development assistance first contributes to creating national conditions for development and to combating poverty, which is obviously incompatible with justice, popular participation and effectiveness. As necessary as the achievement of food self- sufficiency throughout the world may appear, the national capacity of the developing world should be strengthened in order to facilitate the effective implementation of international agreements on environmental protection, trade liberalization, macroeconomic management and banking supervision, which are so essential to the proper functioning of a globalized economy. Looking back at history, one can see that after the Second World War development cooperation was synonymous with solidarity and aid: assistance from the richest countries to the poorest. It is time for this cooperation to be transformed, made more dynamic and, above all, become part of the new fact of globalization. The recent ministerial meeting initiated by Mr. Mark Malloch Brown, the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), highlighted the need to strengthen the institution's capacity in order to fulfil its mission more effectively. This strengthening is particularly necessary, since today, more than ever before, it is not possible to conceive of development without taking environmental requirements duly into account. UNDP could, for instance, intensify its assistance to countries that draw part of their resources from forest products to achieve sustainable and ecologically viable management of the forests. 22 With regard to strengthening protection of the environment, the debate under way in the United Nations, which consists of blaming only the forest countries, is unjust, since we know that the greenhouse gas emissions produced by the industrialized countries are largely responsible for the harm done to our planet. Passing responsibility back and forth would not be constructive. To the contrary, we should rather search together, in the spirit of the 1992 Rio Conference, for ways and means to enable us all to preserve the balance of our natural ecosystem. I turn to the alleviation of the crushing external debt burden. On this crucial point, my country devotes nearly half its annual budget to repaying debt, thereby compromising its efforts and chances for development. The debt relief mechanisms advocated in recent years have been discriminatory with regard to our country by excluding us from their application. We say that the reasoning is unfair, being based on our high per capita gross domestic product, without taking into account either our ability to pay or the seriously disproportionate distribution of national income between capital, labour and taxation. A study carried out recently by a team of university specialists in Gabon shows that less than 40 per cent of our gross domestic product is likely to cause a multiplier effect locally. The peculiar situation of Gabon, the only country in the so-called intermediate-income category in sub- Saharan Africa, is due to the fact that its wealth is produced by, and for, external protagonists. Thus the appeal made to the international community for a fairer treatment of my country's debt and that of others is not simply a form of begging. What is at stake is the strengthening of the international trading system for the benefit of all, so that globalization, as the Secretary-General has quite rightly said, might become a positive force for all of humankind. The debt problem remains a major source of concern for African countries, not just my own. We believe that our partners should show some imagination rather than coming up with the same tired solutions. That is why, in considering the debt problem, account should be taken not only of socio-economic indicators but also of the efforts made by a State to combat poverty and the deterioration of the environment. We will say it again: helping the South helps the North and helps everyone. The status of the developing countries, particularly those of Africa, requires broad-based action on the part of the international community in order to translate into reality our duties of solidarity towards peoples. Official development assistance continues to decline. Following up on the recommendations of the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development, recently reaffirmed in Geneva, my country, in its fight against poverty, is now implementing the 20/20 initiative that is, 20 per cent of its national budget and 20 per cent of official development assistance are allocated to basic social services. We all know here that the 20/20 initiative is an excellent way to combat poverty. Regrettably, Gabon's efforts have been hampered by the dizzying decline in official development assistance and its exclusion from the benefits of external concessional financing. I turn now to the protection of vulnerable peoples and the fight against HIV/AIDS. Another aspect of political and social problems in Africa and throughout the world is the status of women and children in society. In my country, women have the same rights as men. Our educational system ensures free schooling for all school-age children, in the interests of the Gabonese nation as a whole. School enrolment has risen from 27 per cent in 1950 to more than 90 per cent today. Furthermore, my country is resolutely committed to promoting and protecting the rights of the child. Accordingly, we hosted in February 2000 in Libreville an international conference on trafficking in children and on child labour. We call for the implementation of the recommendations of that conference, which are a direct follow-up to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and its two additional Protocols, signed here by the head of State of Gabon. Regarding the campaign against HIV/AIDS, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that, at the initiative of President Bongo, the Gabonese Government has just created a national solidarity fund to combat this pandemic. Gabon believes that the creation of an 23 international solidarity fund to combat AIDS would no doubt help the 35 million people stricken with this illness, the majority of whom are in developing countries, especially in Africa. I turn now to the reform and restructuring of the United Nations system. In his report entitled We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty- first century, the Secretary-General emphasized the need to renew the United Nations. This renewal requires that we identify the major assets of the United Nations, rebuild its infrastructure and information- technology capacities, and continue the peaceful revolution that is, the reforms begun in 1997. In this context, it is necessary to revise the scale of assessments. It is in the interest of us all that we readjust the scale of assessments, so that the burden of the Organization's expenditures, and thereby its freedom of action, does not rest on the shoulders of only a few Member States. The current millennium, a symbol of divine generosity and perfection to which we are bearing witness, has the potential to give rise to further progress in the building of a more just and peaceful world. Every nation represented here is a reflection of humankind, whose common values were recalled by the founders of the United Nations. Humanity is itself in the image of God, and we must therefore together bring to fruition the precious gifts bestowed by our Creator: love, peace and freedom. The United Nations must retain what has shown itself to be tried and true, adapt where necessary and devise new forms of regulation.  At the outset, I should like to congratulate the President on his well-deserved election to the presidency of this Millennium Assembly. I also want to congratulate his predecessor for his invaluable contribution and his outstanding leadership during the fifty-fourth General Assembly. In the same vein, I should like to register my delegation's appreciation to the Secretary-General for the excellent manner in which he is conducting the affairs of the Organization. Let me also take this opportunity to express our delight in welcoming the Republic of Tuvalu as the newest member of the United Nations family. Tanzania is gratified that the recently ended Millennium Summit addressed some of the most pertinent issues and challenges facing the United Nations and its Members in the new millennium. Those issues include development and poverty eradication; the effects of globalization, including technological disparities; conflict prevention, management and resolution; disarmament; and the HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria and tuberculosis. It was recognized that Africa and, particularly, the least developed countries suffer most and hence demand urgent remedial action by the international community. Poverty remains one of the areas of great concern in Africa. The number of poor people in our region living on less than one dollar a day is estimated to be 300 million. That number represents more than 40 per cent of Africa's total population. Indications are that the number of poor people in the continent is 8 likely to increase as Africa's output continues to drop. There is therefore an urgent need for a comprehensive strategy for Africa to address poverty eradication with all its ramifications. The strategy should include a compendium of measures aimed at capacity-building in the development process, including social services. The implementation of such a far-reaching strategy for poverty eradication would very much depend on the availability of resources. Bearing in mind that in 2001 the United Nations will convene a High-level Intergovernmental Event on Financing for Development, it is our hope that the issue of mobilizing resources for the development of Africa will be thoroughly addressed. Official development assistance continues to be particularly critical in supporting development efforts in Africa and the least developed countries. It is sad to note that flows of official development assistance have fallen to an all-time low of 0.2 per cent, far from the agreed target of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product of developed countries. My delegation therefore wishes to appeal to our development partners to reverse the trend of declining resources and increase the level of official development assistance contributions. Many African countries are undertaking painful reforms aimed at attracting foreign direct investment. However, foreign direct investment flows have been minimal. Investors should feel encouraged to invest in Africa because the competitive rate of return on foreign direct investment stands at between 24 per cent and 30 per cent. That rate is higher than those of all developed countries, which stand at between 16 per cent and 18 per cent. We therefore call on Governments and relevant international organizations to assist in sensitizing potential international investors to the possibility of directing their investments to Africa. The various debt relief initiatives pursued by the international community have been helpful, but not sufficient, in providing a meaningful solution to the debt problem of the developing countries. In some of those countries, external debt service constitutes a major drain on scarce resources, taking at least 30 per cent of the national income. In that regard, we welcome the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative to support some of the poor countries in their efforts to resolve the external debt problem. My Government appreciates being one of the countries which have attained eligibility under this scheme. We call upon the institutions concerned to speed up the process towards our reaching the completion point so that we can fully benefit from HIPC relief. Commenting on the HIPC Initiative, my President, Mr. Benjamin William Mkapa, has had this to say: “Tanzania welcomes the revisions made to the HIPC Initiative. If implemented in full they will provide additional debt relief, which in turn will facilitate the war on poverty and will contribute to sustainable growth and development if managed well. However, if growth is to be sustained, adequate levels of external funding must complement our economic reform efforts. Debt relief under the HIPC Initiative should also not be a substitute for increased bilateral non- debt-creating aid, and neither should it be financed through reallocation of committed aid.” Even acknowledging the importance of the HIPC initiative, the burden of meeting debt service payments would remain heavy even after debt relief for most of the least developed countries. We therefore call upon the donor community to increase HIPC debt relief and to consider additional relief measures, including debt cancellation, so that scarce resources will be released to cater for economic development and poverty eradication programmes. The development of the least developed countries depends on improvement of their capacity to produce goods and services. Improvement of terms of trade and market access for the goods of least developed countries in the developed countries' markets would further contribute towards poverty eradication efforts. In that regard, we call upon developed countries to provide unhindered market access for goods from developing countries, particularly from least developed countries. In the same context, my delegation calls for speedy implementation of the World Trade Organization's Integrated Framework for Trade-related Technical Assistance which will facilitate the integration of least developed countries into the world trading system. The development process of developing countries very much depends on access to technology and on the endogenous capacity to develop it. We are encouraged that the Millennium Summit reiterated the need to assist developing countries to leapfrog into new 9 technologies in order to close the existing technology gap between developed and developing countries, especially least developed countries. It is our sincere hope that the Millennium Declaration will be translated into a concrete programme of action to assist developing countries to develop the critical technologies, including information technologies, needed for their development. We therefore call upon our development partners and all relevant international institutions to facilitate the transfer of technology, including environmentally sound technologies, on favourable terms. My delegation believes that South-South cooperation is an important means of realizing some of the objectives of economic development. Tanzania fully supports the programme of action adopted last April in Havana, Cuba, at the South Summit. Tanzania recognizes and fully supports the role of women in the development process. Here, the Government has adopted a number of specific measures aimed at enhancing the participation of women in decision-making processes, and at bringing about equal access to education and health, and access to credit on a preferential basis. In the area of representation, for example, the Government has increased the minimum quota of women parliamentarians from 15 per cent to 20 per cent. The Government has also passed legislation that criminalizes discriminatory activities against women. Furthermore, the Land Act was revised in 1999 to enable women to own land, the major means of production in Tanzania. Tanzania is firmly committed, therefore, to implementing the Beijing Platform for Action. We therefore call on the international community to support our efforts in this regard. Serious pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis are threatening the economic and social development of developing countries, especially African and least developed countries. For example, the scale of the HIV/AIDS pandemic has grown to alarming proportions in Africa. The Security Council has recognized this menace as constituting a security threat. Moreover, the Millennium Summit has underscored the urgency of adopting effective action to combat the scourge. Tanzania urges the international community to assist developing countries in this endeavour, particularly in education and access to affordable treatment. Disarmament, peace and security continue to be crucial to the aspirations of all humanity, and therefore they constitute a critical challenge of the new millennium. The existence of huge arsenals of nuclear weapons poses a major potential threat to world peace and security. These weapons continue to represent a threat to the survival of mankind. Tanzania calls for the complete destruction and elimination of all nuclear weapons. The United Nations also needs to urgently address the problem of small arms and light weapons, which fuel most of the ongoing conflicts in various regions of the world. In this context, we strongly support the convening of the 2001 United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. The Millennium Summit addressed extensively the conflict situations existing in some countries, including those of Africa. The Summit reaffirmed the existence of the intrinsic link between peace and development, which requires an integrated approach to conflict prevention, management and resolution. While supporting United Nations peace efforts, we note with concern that there has been a slow and an inadequate response to African conflicts from the United Nations. In Angola, it is with apprehension that we bear witness to the continuing hostilities and the grave humanitarian situation brought about by Jonas Savimbi and his organization, UNITA; they have blatantly violated the decisions of the Security Council regarding the implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. It is disturbing that Mr. Savimbi has been able to sustain his insurgency by violating the sanctions imposed against UNITA by the Security Council. We call upon the international community to continue its support to the Government of Angola. On Burundi, my delegation is pleased to note that after protracted negotiations between the parties involved in the Burundi conflict, the Burundi peace and reconciliation agreement was concluded in Arusha, Tanzania on 28 August 2000. We welcome the agreement and commend the Facilitator, President Nelson Mandela, for his role in reconciling the parties. We also commend the regional leaders for their efforts in support of the Burundi peace process. Although a small number of parties to the conflict did not sign the agreement, efforts were made to ensure that all of them would sign it. As I speak here, most of the parties have now signed. It is our hope that the parties will abide by the terms of the agreement and afford the people of 10 Burundi the opportunity to realize their aspirations for peace and development. We call upon the United Nations and the international community to extend support to the agreement. As for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Lusaka Agreement remains the basis for the resolution of the conflict in that country. It is unfortunate, though, that there is an impasse in the implementation of the Agreement. One of the reasons for the existing situation is the mistrust among the parties. The delay in the deployment of the United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has created a vacuum that has further contributed to the impasse. Tanzania supports Security Council resolution 1234 (1999). We also urge the Security Council to deploy the peacekeeping force in the Democratic Republic of the Congo as soon as possible. On Somalia, we welcome the agreement reached in Djibouti on the formation of the Government of that country. In this regard, we congratulate the Government of Djibouti for its constructive role in the reconciliation process. Concerning Western Sahara, Tanzania reiterates its support for the right to self-determination of the Sahrawi people and the effort of the United Nations to organize and supervise an impartial, free and fair referendum, in accordance with the Settlement Plan for Western Sahara and the relevant Security Council and other United Nations resolutions. We urge the United Nations to conduct, as soon as possible, the referendum on the basis of the preparations that have so far been made. The lessons of East Timor should not be ignored. On the Middle East, Tanzania continues to support the cause of the Palestinian people. In this regard, we welcome the ongoing peace process aimed at achieving a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in that volatile region. There is a direct linkage between conflicts and the incidence of refugees and internally displaced persons. In this respect, Tanzania finds itself in the very difficult situation of hosting more than 800,000 refugees, most of whom are products of the crisis in the Great Lakes region. This is a huge burden for a poor country like Tanzania. Besides, refugees pose many problems relating to security and environmental degradation. There is an urgent need for the international community to increase its support to the refugees, as well as to the refugee-hosting countries. In the same vein, we reiterate our call for international burden-sharing and responsibility in refugee situations. A definitive solution to the refugee situation evidently lies in resolving conflicts so as to enable the repatriation of refugees to their countries of origin. One of the pressing reform issues in the United Nations is the reform of the Security Council. Among the significant changes of our time is the liberalization and democratization of economic and political processes. The Security Council cannot persist in being an exception. Its composition and powers must bear a relationship to the democratic ideals necessary for its continued relevance and legitimacy. It is our hope that the Council membership will be expanded in both categories and that such expansion should include both developed and developing countries. Furthermore, Tanzania believes that the capacity of the United Nations to effectively carry out its mandate is contingent upon the willingness of all Member States to support it politically as well as financially. In this regard, we call upon the Member States to provide it with adequate resources on a timely and predictable basis. Tanzania also welcomes the many reform proposals and measures that have been introduced to improve working methods, both at the Secretariat and at intergovernmental levels. For that effort to succeed, there has to be consensus among Member States on the best method to manage change in the United Nations. In conclusion, allow me to observe that the Millennium Assembly, like the preceding Summit, is an act of partnership. We can only hope, therefore, that the renewed enthusiasm and the recommitment to the Charter of the United Nations will galvanize our energies and enable us to rise to and fulfil, the hopes and aspirations of the Organization and its peoples, as espoused in the Millennium Declaration.  Finding ourselves in a new century and in a new millennium, it is natural to review what we have done right and to meditate also on what we could have done better. The United Nations is the forum and the system that allows us to contemplate the status of the world's development from the widest possible perspective. Latvia is small, but the success of our democracy and the success of our efforts at European integration will have a strong positive effect on the destiny of the Baltic Sea region. The success of an Organization like the United Nations can be measured by how its work has affected the lives of individual people in all countries. In the age of globalization the challenge we 7 collectively face is to ensure that all can be beneficiaries. As a result of the revolution in information technology, the world has grown smaller. Nations and people are closer to each other than ever before. This underlines the importance of the principle of universality. Today the decisions taken in one part of the globe affect people and nations all around the world. This calls for wider representation and, in the case of the United Nations, for the reform of the Security Council, which needs to be carried out to reflect the present political and economic realities. To respond to modern challenges, the United Nations needs both political will and courage. In this regard, I would like to express my appreciation to the Secretary-General for his efforts in strengthening and modernizing the Organization through its reforms. The United Nations also needs to be better equipped to prevent and manage conflicts. Unfortunately, the demand for peacekeeping is still high. The Member States, both individually and collectively, must do more to meet this demand. Latvia has done its best to make its practical contribution to peace and security. During the past year Latvia's peacekeepers have been present in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo as a part of North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led forces. In accordance with the United Nations decision to extend the mandate for the operation in Kosovo, Latvia will continue its participation and will allocate more resources for peacekeeping operations in next year's budget. As a future member of the European Union, Latvia attaches great importance to the development of a common European security and defence policy that will increase the European capabilities in conflict prevention and crisis management. We are willing to contribute our forces and to participate in European Union operations. To provide the United Nations with proper tools for peacekeeping, the reforms of the scale of contributions must be implemented to reflect the capabilities and responsibilities of every Member State. At the same time, the United Nations must ensure that the resources are spent wisely and operations managed properly. For its part, Latvia is considering a review of its contribution to the peacekeeping budget with a view to gradually increasing its share. Human rights must remain high on the agenda of the United Nations in the twenty-first century. As a member of the Commission on Human Rights and its Bureau, Latvia remains strongly committed to the strengthening of the United Nations human rights mechanisms. In particular, the role of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and its programmes, including the development of national capacities for the promotion and protection of human rights, should be strengthened. Latvia remains committed to the establishment of the International Criminal Court. We welcome the efforts of its Preparatory Commission in tackling the task of finalizing the texts of the rules of procedure and evidence, and the elements of crime, in a timely manner. Those who commit crimes against humanity must not go unpunished. Fifty years of foreign occupation left us with a heavy social, economic and psychological burden. From the time of our return to independence in 1991, Latvia has made every effort to overcome this legacy. To be successful in the new millennium, we need the consolidated input of all our people, regardless of their occupation, ethnicity or place of residence. That is why the Latvian Government has elaborated its programme of integration of society. This is an experiment and in many ways unique. The integration programme is our vision of how our society can function most effectively on the basis of democracy and respect for human rights. This programme complements the integration measures being implemented through education with the help of the United Nations Development Programme. The programme will increase public participation and it will reduce differences among the various regions of Latvia. It is a sign of Latvia's readiness to explore new ways of improving the living standards and the social climate. Latvia's international role has grown in the past decade of freedom. Each year we are able to do more for the people of Latvia and the international community. With the beginning earlier this year of talks for European Union membership, Latvia entered a new phase in its international relations. This November Latvia will assume the presidency of the Council of Europe our first presidency in a pan-European organization. 8 Latvia is determined to participate even more actively in the work of the United Nations. Therefore Latvia has put forward its candidacy to be a non- permanent member of the Security Council for the period of 2006 to 2007. I believe Latvia is ready to assume this high responsibility. It is an honour to present Latvia's perspective here today at the outset of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I wish all of us a very useful and productive session. At the outset, I wish to convey to the President my congratulations on his election to lead this session of the General Assembly. He represents a country that shares with mine the ideals and principles that favour peace, culture, human rights, solidarity and understanding. I hail the entrance of Tuvalu into our Organization, and I congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Namibia, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, on the skilful and intelligent manner in which the important work of the last session of the General Assembly. The political events that occurred in the world in the last decade speeded up changes on the international scene, ushering in new global structures and processes. The disappearance of the ideological underpinnings of the cold war produced profound transformations that changed the geopolitical foundations that had prevailed in the twentieth century. The consolidation of large economic blocs and the technological revolution have had a palpable impact on the pace of economic and social change throughout the world. The free market and the new technologies have favoured competition and have generated the transnational expansion of banking and finance, which has fundamentally changed the way the world economy works. In this global context, countries are joining the trends of globalization from very different levels of development, and consequently, the opportunities and the effects of these new processes turn out to be extremely unequal. Technological, financial and productive disparities have deepened between the developing countries and the industrialized nations, where most of this potential is concentrated. Notwithstanding the efforts of countries to adapt to and become integrated into a new international environment, inequities have grown and social problems have mushroomed in an environment of deteriorating international cooperation. The Millennium Summit, which opened this session of the General Assembly, proved to be a historic opportunity to consider in depth the challenges inherent in the new global trends, which are generating a new international order, with its risks and its potential for peace and security, economic growth, sustainable development and human security. It has become clear in the light of these realities that no country can remain on the sidelines or be insulated from the major global changes, and that all States must face the great challenge of working together to regulate the new processes within a universal endeavour to channel the process of development to secure the benefits of globalization, while meeting the needs of the peoples. Within this context of international responsibility as a priority, the United Nations has a dominant role to play, as a universal forum for States to work together for ideals and objectives common to all peoples and to stimulate international cooperation for sustainable development and poverty eradication. In the new century, the Organization's potential in world affairs must be fully used. Ecuador trusts in an effective multilateral system whereby global norms for the era of globalization are created in a democratic, participatory and systematic manner. With that objective, the Summit acknowledged the representative nature of the United Nations in the fulfilment of its essential goals, within the framework of the new global processes and the challenges of the twenty-first century. The interdependence of international political and economic problems becomes significant in this great task, creating a complex mix of matters to be considered on the international agenda of this global institution, the United Nations, which, because of its legitimacy, has the responsibility for adopting coordinated policies and implementing guidelines that ensure the efficiency and timeliness of this Organization's response to events and phenomena occurring in the world that directly affect international security and stability. I wish to reiterate my congratulations to the Secretary-General on his valuable contribution to the work of this Millennium Assembly through the presentation of his analytical report on the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century. His thoughts are extremely useful in considering the role and the challenges of the United Nations in the years ahead. I must also highlight the contribution of the Latin American countries to the work of the Millennium 18 Assembly through the adoption of the Cartagena Declaration by the heads of State or Government of the Rio Group, and the contribution of the South Summit and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, groups of which Ecuador is a member. Ecuador shares the view regarding the advantages and opportunities relating to the United Nations influencing the management of international public affairs and cultivating the commitment of all actors to approach the new global processes and structures from the perspective of human development. Globalization and poverty must be tackled with the priority that their profound consequences for human development require. The trends of globalization today appear merely as an economic process, dehumanized and lacking in social dimensions. This process concerns itself with free trade, competition and new information technologies, without an approach that guarantees that it works for people and that opportunities for progress and the benefits of the process will be distributed worldwide, to all countries. Ecuador is experiencing one of the most acute crises of its history. Its effects have had a grave impact on State institutions and have led to instability in the process of consolidating democracy. Domestic and foreign factors combined in recent years have contributed to aggravating the crisis through macroeconomic imbalances that have severely battered the economy and people of Ecuador. In this context of enormous difficulties, the conditions Ecuador had negotiated for its foreign debt became extremely difficult to meet. Those factors, together with the adjustment measures taken to confront the crisis, have had a considerable impact on poverty. This global forum must be aware of the enormous difficulties imposed on highly indebted poor countries both by disproportionate external debt servicing and by the continuing obstacles to their export products, as well as by the fluctuations in the international financial system that work against national efforts to create conditions of economic stability and sustainable development. In meeting its goal of bringing about a just and equitable international order, the General Assembly should find means to reduce the external debt of developing countries, including heavily indebted medium-income countries affected by natural disasters. Ecuador has made great efforts to find a just and lasting solution to the problem of the excessive burden of foreign debt. Last August it took a first step in renegotiating the Brady debt segment, and it concluded its negotiations with the Paris Club last week. We trust that understanding and above all fairness will mark the continuation of this process so that a definitive solution may be found for the problem of external debt, which is crushing developing countries and hindering the implementation of priority social programmes in the areas of health, education and employment. The restraining effect of debt is undoubtedly one of the main obstacles in the fight to reduce poverty and attain the goals set in this area by 2015. It is necessary to have an economic and institutional order that provides outlets to countries with small economies, which are the most vulnerable and likely to be affected by extreme crises. Ecuador, committed to overall national development, resolutely supports United Nations activities implementing financial and technical cooperation in support of countries' national efforts to promote sustainable development in order to bring about a better future for all peoples. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) plays a role in that task as the main operational tool for the efforts of the Organization in support of national plans and priorities to alleviate poverty, contribute to democratic governance and strengthen national capacities for the benefit of human development. I appeal to the international community to ensure that the Millennium Assembly gives resolute political backing to UNDP as the central instrument for the overall management of development in the twenty-first century, and to ensure that the Programme has the financial strength necessary to fully enable it to carry out its operational activities. The situation of international trade also deserves our priority attention, as it has a direct influence on the economic and social activities of nations. We call for the elimination of trade barriers and obstacles, and demand the application of norms that will make it possible to carry out trade in an open, predictable and equitable way. In accordance with our long-standing tradition of integration, we support the strengthening of the Andean Community and its increased international outreach, in particular with regard to its relations with the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), the European Union, Russia and the Pacific Basin and 19 in the context of negotiations to create a free trade area of the Americas. Ecuador shares the international community's concern over the continued degradation of natural resources, the threats to the environment and the inadequate compliance with the commitments made at the 1992 Earth Summit on sustainable development. Given its economic, social and environmental implications, we should insist on the need to give priority to sustainable development as a cross-cutting factor in international relations, with regard both to policies and cooperation. There is an imperative need to incorporate appropriate environmental technologies and to develop sustainable production patterns in order to strengthen national scientific and technological capabilities. The Government of Ecuador has incorporated the concept of sustainable development into its national legislation, promoted the adoption of policies and action plans in that context and strengthened its own environmental authority. The phenomenon of drug trafficking, with its global effects, is another matter for the international community, as it respects neither borders nor nations and poses widespread dangers to society. Drug trafficking has developed a supranational system in which no particular nation can be viewed as the root cause of the problem. It is essential that we recognize the principle of shared responsibility in coping with the reality of this phenomenon, and that we take the necessary international steps to resolve it. Abiding by this universal commitment, which has already been recognized in the 1988 Convention against Illegal Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, is fundamental in our fight against this global problem, one of the challenges confronting humankind. At the dawn of the twenty-first century, peace, security and disarmament constitute other priority challenges that the United Nations will continue to face. Ecuador advocates the peaceful resolution of international disputes and condemns the threat and use of force in relations between States, as we are convinced that a system of peace and trust among nations must be based on the peaceful resolution of disputes and on specific disarmament measures in the context of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the norms of international law. In its pursuit of the goals of peace and security, the Security Council bears primary responsibility for the maintenance and restoration of international peace. Ecuador deems it a priority, in terms of the renewal of the United Nations, to reform the Council's composition and methods of work. The Council's mission makes it vital that we correct the current imbalances in the Council's composition, improve its decision-making machinery and lend greater transparency to its methods of work. Another challenge for the United Nations concerns the role and the strengthening of peacekeeping operations. In recent years humankind has witnessed the exacerbation of regional conflicts and the negative consequences of war in various parts of the globe. It is vital that joint action in the framework of this world Organization be strengthened, so that the use of force, when absolutely necessary, can be applied in strict conformity with Chapter VII of the Charter. In this way the United Nations will be able to retain the international credibility it requires as the legitimate forum for, and agent of, collective action to promote international peace and security. One of the pillars of democracy in any society is strict respect for human rights, the defence and protection of which are the responsibility not only of each and every State but also of the international community. The international community, therefore, can no longer remain silent or indifferent; it must react, in a legitimate manner, to the massive violations of the rights of entire peoples that were perpetrated in the final years of the past century, which are a source of shame for humankind. Furthermore, it is totally unacceptable for one or more States to seek to represent the international community and to apply, unilaterally and by force, a non-existent “right to interference” on the basis of humanitarian considerations. In 1998 Ecuador promulgated a national human rights plan with a broad and democratic perspective. The plan, which takes an integrated approach to the human being, was devised and prepared through a nationwide consultative process, with the full involvement of civil society and the public authorities. In this context, the right to development constitutes a legitimate aspiration that must be appropriately and decisively spurred forward by the United Nations. Ecuador, as a country that is acutely vulnerable to a variety of natural disasters, accords particular importance to the role of the United Nations system in 20 the prevention, mitigation and reduction of the effects of such disasters, among them the impact of the El Niño phenomenon. In the quest to move forward with research on this phenomenon — which in 1997 and 1998 affected not only the South Pacific region but other areas of the world as well — the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council lent their support to the establishment of an International Centre for the Research of the El Niño Phenomenon, in the city of Guayaqu'l, in Ecuador. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that my Government, as host country, has taken the steps necessary to proceed with the establishment of that Centre in the next few months, as it is convinced of the scientific contribution that such a United Nations-sponsored instrument can make to humankind. Ecuador reaffirms its commitment to multilateralism and to the ideals that inspired the founding of the United Nations. The challenges of the twenty-first century must be confronted by all countries jointly and in a spirit of solidarity. The Member States must see to it that this session of the Assembly makes a historic contribution to a universal endeavour to resolve global problems and to strengthen collective security. The achievements of the United Nations in this new century will hinge on a constructive spirit of solidarity on the part of all peace- loving nations.  Andorra will become, through the Western European and Others Group (WEOG) rotation scheme, a member of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the United Nations at the beginning of 2001, for a period of three years. This is a great responsibility and a particular challenge for a small country that has only been a Member of the United Nations since 1993. My Minister of External Relations, Mr. Albert Pintat, would have loved to have been here today to express to Members Andorra's commitment to the goals of the United Nations and specially our obligations in ECOSOC. He would have praised the Brahimi report and its new thoughts on peacekeeping operations, which my country supports. When he learned that he would be unable to lead this year's delegation to the United Nations, owing to unavoidable official functions in Europe, he asked me, in the light of our forthcoming membership in ECOSOC, to contribute to this general debate of the year 2000 with some free reflections — if possible innovative ones — on what globalization might mean for a small State. This is a daunting task since everything seems to have been said about the subject, but I shall try to dutifully carry out my Minister's instructions. First, however, let me convey to President Harri Holkeri Albert Pintat's congratulations for his election as President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, while thanking his predecessor, Theo-Ben Gurirab, for a difficult job well done. When I was a student here in the United States many years ago, I took a course in photography. I had taken from my family's house in Andorra a negative — it was one of the older glass negatives — and there in the university photography lab I set it up for developing. I remember that moment when I peered into the developer tray and saw, slowly forming on the white photographic paper, an image, the image of my great grandmother. It was a shock, there in New Haven, to see this face from a long distant past, from long before I was born, come slowly into clarity. A lost image from a lost past. If I had the time, and Members the inclination, I could tell them about my great-grandmother, a formidable woman who never left the Valley of Andorra, high up in the mountains of the Pyrenees. I could tell them what her face, strong and hard as the stone of the mountains, says about the history of my country. In the photograph, she is dressed all in black, and looks away from the camera, down at the rocky ground. Behind her, one can see the stones of the 16 family farm, high up in the mountains above Saint Julia, one of the seven parishes that make up the Principality of Andorra. Her Andorra is very different from the country today. Dirt paths have become asphalt roads and stone- strewn fields are now covered with shops, houses and hotels. The remarkable Romanesque churches that are the pride of my country, churches that date back to the foundation of the Principality in the late thirteenth century and that loomed over the villages for almost a millennium, are now hemmed in by concrete buildings — stores, apartments, houses, the same buildings you might find in parts of Rio de Janeiro, Beijing or New York. Yes, so much has changed since my grandfather's hand snapped this picture. My great-grandmother would recognize only the church towers and the stones of the mountains. And what was so specific about her world — the stories, the cooking, the fabric of daily life — well, that has disappeared. In the space of 70 years, Andorra has changed from being a poor and remote place to a prosperous country, with over 10 million tourists a year, who come for skiing in the winter and hiking in the summer. We are now a commercial hub. If you look for a country transformed by globalization, you might look to Andorra. Andorra is a country that has survived, independent and uninvaded, since 1278. It is one of the oldest and one of the smallest democracies in the world. A historian might argue that this remarkable fact is due to its isolation and poverty, or because for centuries the outside world was neatly balanced by its co-Princes — the Bishop of Urgell to the south, and to the north the Count of Foix, later the French King and since 1805 the head of the French State. Unsurprisingly, I might attribute the remarkable record of peace to the cautious character of the Andorran people. Or rather — and less partially — I think that because it is a small country, where parishes have been able to readily communicate with one another at the Casa de la Vall, the House of the Valleys, communication never broke down. The Millennium Summit of the United Nations had as its theme globalization. As a summit, it was aptly named, since I would say that globalization is the story of the second millennium — indeed perhaps it is the story of human culture. I am a politician, not a historian, but we all know the effect on both Europe and the Middle East wrought by the Crusades of the eleventh and twelfth centuries, or the transformation of indigenous and European cultures brought about by the “discovery” of the New World, or the effect of the slave trade of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries on both Africa and the Americas. These violent encounters formed the world even as they brought death and destruction. They also sparked our imaginations. The Globe was the name of Shakespeare's playhouse in sixteenth-century London, a joke he liked to work into many of his plays. I like to think of the United Nations as the new Globe, a theatre in which we are the players or — if we have the imagination — the dramatists for the story of our fragile planet. But the globalization we are now facing is of a different nature. As Kofi Annan suggested in his opening introduction to the Millennium conference, the starting point for this millennium can be summed up in one word: “globalization” — the melting away of national boundaries as the world becomes one economy, one common space, one village. It is an idyllic view, the view of the world as a village. Of course, the Secretary-General is all too aware of the negative effects of the process. In the same introduction, he cautions: “Globalization offers great opportunities, but at present its benefits are very unevenly distributed while its costs are borne by all. “Thus the central challenge we face today is to ensure that globalization becomes a positive force for all the world's people.” (A/54/2000, paras. 13 and 14) We all know the protests that have taken place, and will take place, against this same word, “globalization”. Let us listen, for instance, to one of the interested groups, chosen at random, the International Forum on Globalization (IFG), which understands the term as referring to a “globalized economic system dominated by supranational corporate trade and banking institutions that are not accountable to democratic processes or national Governments”. The IFG accuses “the GATT, WTO, Maastricht, NAFTA, combined with structural adjustment policies of the IMF and the World Bank, to be direct stimulants to the 17 processes that weaken democracy, create a world order that is under the control of transnational corporations, and that devastate the natural world”. According to the IFG, globalization brings the diminishment of powers of local and indigenous communities, States and even nations, destroys both small-scale agriculture and the earth's remaining wilderness, and brings a worldwide homogenization of diverse local and indigenous cultures. To counter its effects, the IFG advocates the revitalization of local communities by promoting maximum self-reliance, the recognition of rights of indigenous peoples and the abandonment of the paradigm of unlimited economic growth. When I listen to these words, I cannot help but hear a lament, a lament for a lost and simpler world: the world of my great-grandmother. And I am reminded of that greatest of all laments for lost culture, the work that indeed informs the thinking behind the activists who struggle against the forces of globalization — Claude Lévi-Strauss and his masterpiece, Tristes Tropiques, his elegy for the people of the Amazon basin, which even as he captured it on paper was disappearing into our modern world. I understand the sadness for the lost world, the world of the past that is always slipping away from us, that exists in the black-and-white negative of our memory. And so here I elegize, before this Assembly, all that has disappeared, not simply in Andorra but in the world, all that has been forgotten, paved over by the forces of travel, of tourism, of telephone, television, cinema and the Internet. These technologies link the world; they narrow its distances and threaten to dilute the cultures of the globe into a flat monoculture. And I ask my listeners now: what new discoveries await us? We cannot imagine them, but they will come, and sooner than we think, in this terrifying and beautiful globe of ours. And yet, and yet ... The IFG manifesto was not posted on a church door in Wittenburg, printed in a new technology that sparked another revolution, the Reformation of the sixteenth century. No, it was downloaded from a web site on the Internet. This Web — in which ideas, images, voices travel across our globe in a flash — is a remarkable invention that collapses both time and space. In the same way, I now realize that my image of my great-grandmother came from a negative, from a camera — a technology that perhaps more than any other, besides the computer, has transformed and quickened the pace of our world. This is to make a very simple point: not simply that this manifesto is presented in the very technology of globalization, but that nostalgia for a local economy might be a product of globalization itself. My great-grandmother had a good life, but a hard one, with terrible cold in the winter and constant work. Would she have chosen this life, if she could have had another? If she had known another? And more to the point, would she have been allowed to choose? We need to remember that people themselves have embraced change. Real people who are not content to live — physically or imaginatively — in their places of birth, but, filled with a desire to better their lives or to see the world, they reach out and try to grasp change, if only to know what they have lost. Lévi-Strauss could not bring himself to recognize that people he observed, deep in the Amazon rain forests, might want to leave their paradise — not because they were driven out by modernity, the modernity that Lévi-Strauss himself made so much of, but because they wanted to better their lives, to embrace the world, to feel for themselves the painful pulse of gain and loss. We need only leave this Hall and walk through any street in the city to recognize this. People from all across the world, people of all races, walking up and down, alone or in conversation, happy or unhappy, homesick or embracing the dreams this city seems to proffer. In the streets, we see restaurants that offer wonderful meals from all around the world, and fusion restaurants: French-Senegalese, American-Thai. Or fusion children. In the streets of New York or Paris or Hong Kong or Andorra la Vella, the people are changing, colours are shifting. What brave new world is being born around us? In saying this, I do not want to contradict the concerns of the anti-globalists, to in any way deny their recognition of the dangers of change. We ignore at our peril practical questions that turn around international finance, international corporations, the widening gulf between have and have-not countries, the dangers to the environment. 18 These are practical matters to be seen to. To paraphrase Annan, we need mechanisms to equalize the benefits of globalization, to make life a positive thing for all peoples. By this I do not mean the quest for superfluous material goods, but shelter and health and protection from disease. And I would add, simply, that before and during my tenure here as Ambassador, the United Nations hosted a series of summits or conferences designed to address these very problems — Rio, Istanbul, Copenhagen, Beijing, Rome, just to name a few. The world conference against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, the world summit for children and Rio + 10 are to come. There is a substantial body of work in place to address the stresses of globalization. What we need to do now is continue to work towards our goals. In conclusion, I would like to consider a presupposition of both global optimists and pessimists: the notion that globalization has replaced nationalism. Again, to quote Kofi Annan, globalization means “the melting away of national boundaries as the world becomes one economy, one common space, one village”. Similarly, the report published in The New York Times concerning the protests against globalization stated that “speakers do not oppose globalization per se, because, in their view, the era of nation-States is coming to its inevitable end”. Are globalization and nationalism opposed? On the surface, they would appear to be. So much of globalization — economies that transcend borders, communication networks that shrink the world — seems to render an earlier model of the nation-State obsolete. And yet, whether it be the ethnic conflicts in Rwanda or in the Balkans, issues of immigration in the developed world or conflict in East Timor, we know that the question of the border, of the passport, remains increasingly important. Despite our interconnectedness, nationalism has not withered away. I fear the rise of a nationalism no longer linked to true patriotism, that is to the love of a place. I pray that the world does not succumb to an unthinking nationalism that would exist simply to exclude or to feed the ambitions of unscrupulous politicians. We need a democratic nationalism forged out of a concern for the rights of individuals. That is not nationalism as it worked out from the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries — a nationalism linked to the struggle to control markets, to the scramble for loot — but a new nationalism that is not predicated on identity, on cultural sameness, a nationalism that is linked to a world economy that is no longer restricted by national borders, a democratic or civic nationalism, a global nationalism. This would be a new nationalism, I must add, in which Andorra and other small countries are not historical anachronisms, but are emblematic of this civic nationalism, predicated as it must be on the democratic will of the people. In this sense, Andorra's quiet patriotism, its 700 years of peace and communication, can modestly serve as a kind of historical model. Countries need to rethink what it means to be a nation in order to participate effectively in the life of this our globe, in order to become what we must be and to a certain extent already are: united nations. In its very name, in its very mission, the United Nations anticipated the globalization that is so rapidly occurring. Born out of a global threat posed by war and later by nuclear war, forged from the most terrible of national struggles, the United Nations is an activist forum for issues that are global, not in the sense that they transcend any individual nation, but in the sense that they are of concern to all nations. The International Criminal Court, whose statute will soon be ratified by Andorra, a country which had the honour of contributing to it by composing the first paragraphs of the preamble, is a good example of an entity that respects borders but that places human rights above all. Crimes against humanity must be punished, and shall be. This new nationalism, while it recognizes borders, asserts that the rights of citizens to liberty and peace are primary. Hence, the United Nations, even as it respects national borders, needs to recognize that it can and should become proactive in the protection of those rights in the case of civil conflict. So too, the great global threat of AIDS and other infectious diseases demands a response from each nation and a recognition that these threats can never be adequately dealt with alone, but only by working globally through the United Nations. In short, we need not only the United Nations, but, as many have said, we need united nations. 19 I began this speech with the image of my great- grandmother looking down at the stony ground of her country. I would end it, symbolically at least, with another image: our image. Someday, our great- grandchildren may discover our image, perhaps even our image here in this place. Perhaps they will reproduce it through a technology so strange, so remarkable, we cannot even imagine it. But let us hope that they live in the brave new world I have spoken of today. And let us hope that they see us as an image of positive change. We who have lived through such change cannot turn away from it. With our feet on the ground of this great globe of ours, we need to look forward. We need to grasp change. We need to reach out.  The Republic of Haiti wishes to add its voice to all those who have already congratulated Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. We take this opportunity also to pay tribute to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab for the success with which he guided the work of the fifty-fourth session. I convey warm regards to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has made a remarkable contribution to enhancing the confidence placed in the Organization. The Republic of Haiti welcomes the admission of Tuvalu to membership of the United Nations. There is no question but that this session should focus on how to implement the decisions taken by our heads of State or Government during the Millennium Summit with a view to forging a policy of effective global cooperation for the twenty-first century. Despite all the criticism one could legitimately level at the Organization after 55 years, the United Nations system remains the sole worldwide structure that can provide collective solutions to the problems facing us in the spheres of international security, the environment and economic and social development. The Organization is often found lacking in terms of solutions to problems. But we know very well that this lack of effectiveness is the result of several factors, including a lack of resources and poor management of those that are available, and overlap in the functions of United Nations institutions and agencies. We think it is important to continue to rationalize the functioning of the Organization in order to secure the best results from existing resources. We must remember that entrusting the United Nations with a mandate without providing it with the proper means for fulfilling it has the inevitable and negative consequence of undermining the Organization's credibility. Last June in Geneva, we took stock of the outcome of the Copenhagen World Summit for Social Development. The assessment was very mixed, not to say negative. The fact is that the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and Programme of Action were formulated in response to a world socio- historical situation marked both by a widening gap between North and South and by a distinct incongruity between the positive economic aspects and the negative social aspects of globalization. Social development therefore gains in urgency as the process of globalization accelerates. In spite of all the political and economic difficulties facing the Republic of Haiti, it has made constant efforts to attain the goals of the Copenhagen Summit, as witnessed by the seemingly minor but actually important fact that between 1997 and 2000 Haiti's ranking in the United Nations Development Programme human development index rose from 156 to 150. But we know that we are far from reaching acceptable levels of social development. That is why the Haitian Government continues to devote special attention to implementing the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the 1990s. The Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries will be held at Brussels in May 2001. It will, inter alia, assess what has been done to strengthen the human and institutional capacities of the least developed countries. Unless these are strengthened, it will be extremely difficult for least developed countries fully to attain goals of the Copenhagen Programme of Action. Beyond its social aspects, the question of development will be decisive for the peaceful future of international relations. Statistics remind us daily that the countries of the North and the countries of the South are moving further apart as the changes brought about by globalization continue swiftly. This situation is politically, economically and ecologically dangerous 20 for the stability of the international system; this could lead in the long term to the spread of areas bereft of law, to sudden migratory flows and to the continued use of armed conflicts and violence as a way of conducting relations between and within nations. Haiti therefore welcomes the fact that a central theme of next year's second high-level dialogue on strengthening international economic cooperation for development through partnership will be the identification of ways to integrate developing countries into the world economy in the twenty-first century. The economy of the twenty-first century will increasingly be based on new information technologies and this will be an enormous challenge for the developing countries. Because of this, maximizing cultural resources and local genetic resources for development and for preserving traditional knowledge will become essential for sustainable development, since it offers an appropriate legal framework to enable countries of the South to preserve their intellectual property rights to their genetic resources. Implementation of a global policy for economic development will have no really significant effect on real development of the human being if the question of peace is neglected. Peace and development are interdependent and mutually reinforcing. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization's constitution states explicitly that “since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. It is therefore essential that the concept and the practice of peace become a real culture so as to enable societies and individuals to develop and enrich themselves through their cultural diversity. We welcome the proclamation of 2001 as the “Year of Dialogue among Civilizations”. Social development and the worldwide dissemination of a culture of peace are definitely basic elements here. However, we think that it is important to welcome the idea of integrating them into a wider conceptual and operational dimension — the dimension of human security which places the human being at the very heart of international priorities. Far from harming the interests of the nation-State, human security fully meets its concerns. In fact, human security goes beyond, formally speaking, the natural sphere of action of nation-States to deal with transnational phenomena such as the degradation of the environment, natural disasters and international crime in all of its many aspects which pose serious threats to the control over, and managing of, national affairs. The great challenge today is to work out and implement a programme for human security that establishes, as a yardstick for its success, its ability to release men and women in our world from the slavery of poverty. In our search for solutions to current problems, we need to envisage the reform of our Organization and, in particular, the reform of the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. Questions of development are linked to questions of international security and therefore neither of these reforms should be neglected. After years of negotiation and debate, it is time now for the international community to reach a consensus on the democratization of the Security Council to make it better adapted to the new international realities. It would also be an ideal time to give thought to a thorough reassessment of the veto, which is no longer in keeping with the current state of international relations. The attainment of these goals will make it possible for our Organization to discharge its twofold mission: guaranteeing peace among nations and assisting the peoples of the earth to develop their potential. Likewise, the reform of the Economic and Social Council is essential if we want to give the United Nations the tools it needs to confront the challenges of the twenty-first century. This reform should seek to avoid or eliminate the functional overlapping of programmes of action of the agencies of the United Nations system, while developing a policy of partnership for development. Accordingly, it is essential to strengthen the functions of the Economic and Social Council that relate to the coordination of funds and programmes. The strengthening of the role of, and the functioning of, the Economic and Social Council is particularly crucial in this era of globalization. Only the definition and implementation at the multilateral level of coordinated plans of action will make it possible to help, in a meaningful way, the efforts of States to eradicate poverty and to establish a solid basis for comprehensive sustainable development. Our Organization is rightly called a universal Organization. This is why the Republic of Haiti welcomed enthusiastically our unanimous decision to 21 admit Tuvalu as the 189th Member. It is only right that the 9,000 inhabitants of that country be properly represented in our world Organization. Therefore the situation of the 23 million Chinese of Taiwan is a matter of concern to us. We welcome the fact that the dialogue-based approach continues to prevail on both sides of the Straits of Taiwan. While we wait for the dialogue to produce satisfactory results for both sides, we think that the question of the representation of these 23 million people deserves the attention of the United Nations. Allow me to conclude by referring to a few figures. According to the latest report on development, produced by the World Bank, one fifth of the world's population, no less than 1.2 billion people, are living on less than one dollar a day. One out of five children die before reaching the age of five. The World Bank tells us also that the 20 richest countries have an average income which is 37 times higher than that of the 20 poorest countries and this gap is twice what it was 40 years ago. And yet, these last 40 years were all decades devoted to development by the international community. There is, therefore, a problem here that I would call the paradox of the twentieth century. Never has humanity attained such a capacity to produce all kinds of goods and riches, and yet never have there been so many people unjustifiably going hungry. The essential challenge today is for the twenty- first century not to resemble the twentieth in this respect. To make this happen, the mind-boggling constant increase in scientific knowledge must be properly harnessed to the fight against poverty in all of its various manifestations. The United Nations cannot spend another 55 years talking about development: it is time now, it is high time to make development a reality. The entire credibility of the Organization hinges on this issue because, basically, development is another name for peace. Despite the many obstacles we face, Haiti hopes that the community of States will manage to build in this century and in this millennium a world where basic needs will be met, where nature will be protected, where the scourge of drugs and organized crime will be controlled, with opportunities for all, with hopes for a more promising future, in particular for young people and for the disadvantaged. Our deliberations come in the wake of the historic Declaration just adopted at the Millennium Summit. Today, we look into the future with greater confidence. Our commitment to the principles enshrined in the Charter is undiminished. Our enthusiasm to turn our Organization's goals into solid realities remains high. In our quest for a better world, we are to derive our inspiration from our democratic values; our energy from the dynamism of our societies; and our strength from global solidarity and shared responsibility. Today, there is no greater challenge for us than the prevention of conflicts and the achievement of peace. The horrors we witnessed in Europe, the Far East and Africa in the course of the past decade compel us with a sense of urgency to devise effective conflict prevention mechanisms and strategies. In his Millennium Report, the Secretary-General articulates the means for conflict prevention. These recommendations, when adopted and implemented, will provide the required capacity and credibility. As an increasingly active member of the international community, providing civilian and military contingents to peace efforts in different spots, as far apart as South-Eastern Europe and East Timor, Turkey will give substance to United Nations efforts to prevent conflicts. As peace operations become a core function of the United Nations, we feel the urge to have a sounder financial basis. Turkey therefore supported the review of assessments for the apportionment of expenses for peacekeeping operations. We hope that these discussions will lead to a fairer redrawing of the scale. The rapidly globalizing world provides an appropriate environment for Turkey, at the heart of Eurasia, to serve as a bridge between many nations and civilizations. A priority task is securing peace and stability in the Balkans. The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, in which Turkey plays an active part, provides a good framework for cooperation and development in the region. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, the full implementation of the Dayton/Paris accords is still our objective. We should preserve Bosnia and Herzegovina as a multi-ethnic, multicultural, independent and sovereign State. Turkey will continue to contribute bilaterally and through multilateral endeavours to Bosnia and Herzegovina's state-building and reconstruction efforts. In Kosovo, the United Nations has been able to put in place arrangements enabling the population to sustain their daily lives, but the current state of ethnic violence does not inspire hopes for a promising future. The United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo has set new rules for the administration of Kosovo. We look forward in particular to the full recognition of the vested rights of the Turkish community of Kosovo. We hope the shortcomings in this respect will soon be corrected, allowing the multi-ethnic and multicultural structure of Kosovo to be duly reflected in its public institutions and organs. To turn to a positive development, I should underline that the constructive trend in our relations with Greece I mentioned in my address last year to the General Assembly continues. During the year, we have signed nine agreements for cooperation in a variety of areas, ranging from economy to culture. In this context, the rapprochement between Turkey and Greece that we initiated has already brought about positive results. The mutual rediscovery by the peoples of Turkey and Greece of one another and their reconciliation provided the main dynamics of the rapprochement. Almost on a daily basis, politicians, mayors, businessmen, trade-unionists, artists, writers, sportsmen and student groups visit each other across the Aegean or Thrace. Trade between the two countries is flourishing. An unprecedented flurry of activity is being observed along the Aegean coasts and in Thrace. Bilateral tourism is on the rise; joint investments are being carried out. A memorandum of understanding for a joint Turkey-Greece-European Union pipeline project to transport Central Asian and Caucasian energy to Western Europe has been signed. All these positive developments have revealed once again that the Turkish and the Greek people are in favour not of confrontation, but of cooperation and friendship. The peoples of our two countries have not only superseded their politicians, but have raised a most significant barrier to any inclination to move backwards. The rapprochement between our two peoples constitutes the best guarantee against the inclinations of some politicians who, once in a while, yearn for the confrontational past. Turkey's attention is also focused on developments in the southern Caucasus and Central Asia. Our historical, cultural and linguistic affinities with the countries of those regions serve as a major asset in our joint efforts to see the peoples of the region move towards higher levels of security and prosperity. Recent terrorist activities, however, pose a new threat to the peace and security of the Central Asian States and are of major concern. We are now seeking ways as to how we can best assist those countries in their struggle against terrorism. Recent events demonstrate once again that we have to fight international terrorism collectively. We commend the efforts of the United Nations to strengthen the legal framework in the fight against terrorism and urge the General Assembly to keep the matter high on its agendas. The developments in Afghanistan are cause for grave concern, as they have a direct impact on the stability of a huge region, including Central Asia. In the southern Caucasus, peace has yet to be achieved between Azerbaijan and Armenia. The international community has the obligation to contribute to ending the Armenian occupation of parts of Azerbaijan. Stability in Georgia, on the other hand, remains a goal. We have put forward the idea of a stability pact for the Caucasus and are following up our initiative. The regional countries must develop a growing awareness of the wide-ranging benefits of regional cooperation. Here, I should also underline that attempts to defame other nations or to extract enmity from history will serve no useful purpose. No nation in the world has the right to use or distort history in order to achieve some kind of identity. Historical research should be left to scholars. In this day and age, we expect all nations to concentrate their efforts on cooperating with each other for the good of their peoples. The Middle East peace process has reached a crucial phase. Turkey has always underlined the importance of a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement on the basis of international legitimacy and within the framework of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and of the principle of land for peace. The Palestinian issue lies at the core of the Arab- Israeli conflict. On the other hand, it has again been proven during the course of negotiations that Al-Quds is the decisive element for peace between Palestinians and Israelis. Progress was made at the Camp David summit, as it was the first occasion at which there was frank discussion of all issues, including the most sensitive. We are heartened to witness the willingness of both sides to continue negotiations and to explore all possibilities. We encourage the parties to remain engaged in order not to waste this historic opportunity. Turkey is endowed with centuries of experience regarding the area, the wider region and its problems. We also have deep historical, moral and cultural ties with the peoples of the region. Turkey has good relations with the Israeli and the Palestinian parties alike and enjoys their trust. This prompted the parties to solicit our contributions in recent weeks to facilitating a better understanding and greater confidence between them. Turkey will continue these efforts as long as we all think them useful. I would also like to underline that Israel's withdrawal from southern Lebanon, within the framework of Security Council resolution 425 (1978), was a step in the right direction. We also hope that negotiations on the Israeli-Syrian and the Israeli- 12 Lebanese tracks will resume soon and reach a mutually acceptable solution. As we are recommitting ourselves to uphold the principles enshrined in the Charter with increased determination and vigour, we should likewise avoid being captive of approaches not based on reality. In the same vein, efforts to impose solutions that do not take into account the realities on the ground are doomed to failure. In line with this very basic logic, the settlement of the Cyprus issue must be compatible with the existing realities on the island. To refresh memories on this particular subject which is sometimes distorted in public opinions by some powerful centres, I would like to summarize the historical background. Cyprus became an international problem as of December 1963 when the joint Turkish-Greek Republic was forcibly destroyed by the Greek Cypriots and an unconstitutional rule was set up at the expense of the Turkish Cypriots. The present situation in Cyprus came into being after the coup in 1974 engineered by Nikos Sampson, the coup leader, who was acting in coordination with the colonels' junta in Greece. This coup murdered many Greek Cypriots as well. The coup toppled Archbishop Makarios and forced him to flee the country. They staged widespread terror and moved to make the Turkish Cypriots subjects of a Greek Cyprus which was designed to be an integral part of mainland Greece. Turkey, as one of the guarantor powers by virtue of the London and Zurich Agreements, intervened to terminate the ongoing massacres and to prevent the perpetration of similar atrocities in the future. Accordingly, Turkey averted an ethnic cleansing on the island and spared the Turkish Cypriots from sharing the tragic fate of the Muslim Kosovars and Muslim Bosnians of the future. Therefore, it would be a gross distortion of history to consider Turkish intervention as an occupation. On the contrary, it symbolizes liberation for nearly 200,000 Turkish Cypriots. Due to Turkish intervention, not only did the coup in Cyprus fail, but also the junta collapsed, and democracy returned to Greece. Since 1974, peace and security has prevailed on the island. Turkish Cypriots and Greek Cypriots live on the island as two independent states, two functioning democracies, representing two distinct peoples. In spite of a ruthless economic embargo imposed upon them by the Greek Cypriots, the Turkish Cypriots have made considerable economic progress. It is stipulated by the United Nations that both parties through separate referenda should approve a comprehensive settlement mutually acceptable to the two parties. In case the settlement is rejected by one of the parties in its referendum, the proposed solution becomes null and void. It is out of the question, therefore, for an international organization or any other grouping to impose its own solution on the parties. In this framework, the membership of Cyprus in the European Union, of which Turkey is not a full member, would be an indirect enosis and contrary to the London and Zurich Agreements. If a mutually acceptable settlement is sincerely sought, then the model is quite clear, based on the realities of Cyprus: a confederation consisting of two states. As to this model, the two independent entities, by virtue of reaching an agreement between themselves, will transfer some of their functions to the confederal bodies. Thus, both the integrity and diversity that emanate from the realities of the island would be preserved. A mutually acceptable settlement in Cyprus cannot be reached through romantic descriptions but through realistic assessments. Therefore, to define the division of Cyprus as the last wall of Europe might sound fashionable but the connotations it brings and the parallelism it draws are totally erroneous. First of all, the line defined as a wall was not drawn by Turkey. This line was drawn by the United Nations peacekeeping forces in 1963 in order to protect the Turkish Cypriots from the assault of the Greek Cypriots. This is the year when the Greek Cypriots illegally got hold of the state apparatus and conducted violent assaults against Turkish Cypriots. To refer to some recent arrangements by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus on its sovereign soil as an act strengthening the existing barriers is irrelevant. For the walls to tumble down in Cyprus, the Greek Cypriot side must first free itself of its present frame of mind. Turkey favours a viable settlement of the Cyprus issue. It supports President Denktaş' confederal proposal and the proximity talks initiated by the Secretary-General. I would like to take this opportunity to express the appreciation of my Government for the efforts of the Secretary-General as well as his Special Adviser on Cyprus, Mr. de Soto. 13 As a new century is being initiated, it is regrettable that the richly endowed continent of Africa is yet to receive its share from globalization. Especially the prosperous nations have to make a sustained effort to counter poverty and disease in Africa and give the peoples of Africa the hope and the means for a more promising future. We have to vigorously pursue our efforts to make the world a safer place for all. Turkey has always encouraged efforts aimed at achieving meaningful and verifiable arms control and disarmament arrangements. In this context, we are also supportive of nuclear disarmament. It is with this understanding that we are signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and to the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). We urge all countries that have not yet done so to do likewise. One of the tools at the disposal of the United Nations to respond to countries that violate international peace and stability is sanctions. In recent years sanctions have become a prominent tool in United Nations collective efforts. There is now an on- going debate on the subject and an assessment is being made on the utility of sanctions. The effectiveness of sanctions, as we see it, has two important aspects. The first has to do with whether the sanctions applied to a given country or area serve their intended purpose. This, in turn, raises the question of whether the sanctions are properly targeted and whether there is universal compliance. The second aspect concerns the proper implementation of sanctions. They are invoked on the premise that the decisions taken by the United Nations will be respected and that all will share the ensuing burden. Therefore, the collateral effects of the sanctions on third States, and especially the uneven burden they place on countries neighbouring the targeted State, are issues that must be addressed. Moreover, we also should see to it that the adverse effects of sanctions on innocent people, especially on children, women and the elderly, are minimized. After the widespread economic setbacks of the past few years, the healing process of the global economy gathered momentum. Global integration has been further fuelled by bold leaps in science and technology. However, there is no room for complacency. To ensure that the benefits of revitalized growth are felt evenly on a global scale, continued and intensified efforts are needed at national and international levels. It is not only the countries that have been exposed to the negative effects of globalization that stand to lose as a result. Global inequality threatens to become a source of political and social instability. The elimination of poverty should therefore remain our paramount goal. To reach this goal, we must achieve good governance, transparency and participation. We must also build strong social safety nets. But these will not yield the results being sought if we do not make adequate provision for the education our people. As physical borders begin to fade, the minds trapped within national domains must also change and be transformed. We applaud the growing role of the United Nations in the economic and social sphere. With its role in breeding a culture of international cooperation and solidarity a genuine culture of international cooperation and solidarity the United Nations has indeed been a source of inspiration for us all. In one respect we feel we possess most of the elements for a promising future, ranging from increased universal awareness of human dignity to strides in science and technology. Yet, at the same time, we are distressed to find ourselves plagued by war, weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, racism, xenophobia, poverty and many other evils, both old and new. As the new millennium is ushered in, we must embrace rationalism, empathy and human solidarity in tackling our common problems. Only then can we relax, having fulfilled our responsibilities to the next generation.  It is an honour for me to address the General Assembly, which will complement the recent Millennium Summit by providing a fundamental contribution to the current stage of transition towards a United Nations in tune with reality. International peace and security, along with cooperation and solidarity for sustainable human development, must become the fundamental instruments of our new Organization in the new millennium. Peace and security require a renewed commitment to international law, full respect for and faithful, prompt compliance with the decisions of the International Court of Justice, national compliance with the standards imposed by treaties and good faith in the application of laws, uncompromised by domestic political agendas. Honduras, a founding Member of the United Nations, considers that the decisions of the International Court of Justice are a solid basis for the resolution of international conflicts and that they represent the fundamental norms for coexistence among States, with the support of the Security Council as the guarantor of their implementation. Peace and security among nations require the delimitation of land and maritime areas, in keeping with the rules of international law. They require respect for historical rights and the non-use of force. Only with defined boundaries can we determine clearly what contribution everyone can make to our common causes and promote the development of borders of solidarity on the basis of a culture of peace. The 1,000 years that now lie behind us produced extraordinary advances in the history of humanity. But they also left us tasks to be completed relating to problems such as racism, xenophobia, an arsenal of weapons of various magnitudes and the effects of a culture of violence and destruction. This is why we firmly support the consolidation of the peace process in the Middle East. We welcome the constructive dialogue launched by the two Koreas in an effort to normalize 22 their relations, as we welcome peaceful solutions for any divided society. As regards globalization, we must tackle not only the economic aspect, but also social well-being. Education is a passport to the future, but only if the education provided is the same for all, and not just for a minority, and only if education is life-affirming and promotes change so as to teach all human beings on the earth to live together. For this purpose, as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization has pointed out, we must learn to know, we must learn to do, we must learn to be. In this area, we believe that the Economic and Social Council of our Organization must promote and pursue its initiative for greater dissemination of technological information, as proposed by its members during the high-level segment this year. It must try to prevent disparities in technological development that benefit only industrialized countries. Millions of human beings are noting with amazement that there exist realities very different from their own harsh conditions. When they try to travel to that fantastic world, to that dream of hope, they find out that borders do exist and that they are free only to continue dreaming. Globalization is a coin with two faces. On the one hand, it creates wealth, benefits, possibilities, but on the other, poverty, problems, inequity and even new forms of exclusion. Instead, globalization should create for the benefit of all a world without any exclusions. Our responsibility is to bring about the globalization of the development of the human being. Honduras is participating in the Central American integration process. We see this as a way of having a greater presence and being more active in this globalized world. This is why we actively support the strengthening of the institutional process of Central American integration. Despite the advances that occurred in the past millennium, the terms of trade continue to work against the development of many of our countries. The increase in oil prices has a devastating effect on the weakest economies, and, paradoxically, the more we increase production, the more we open our doors to international trade and eliminate barriers, the more obstacles we encounter to gaining access to international markets. This creates a crisis for our export capacity. Trade globalization must produce benefits in both directions. In addition to the asymmetries and disparities to which I have referred, there are also threats of different types that no State, however powerful or strong, can successfully confront in isolation. The report of the Secretary-General to the Millennium Summit attached as much importance to the topic of the environment as it did to peace and development. This demonstrates that in the year 2000 we recognize that, in addition to achieving peace and economic development, we must take care of our environment. If we do not, the future of humanity will continue to be threatened. Every day we are increasingly threatened by the lack of drinking water, desertification, the destruction of the ozone layer and climate change. These processes have produced an increase in natural disasters. Honduras, my country, was the victim of a disaster of catastrophic proportions. This is why we attach such priority to caring for the environment and to education on how to promote and preserve it. The need to control the production of greenhouse gases, the widening of the hole in the ozone layer, the drop in oxygen production, the pollution of fresh and salt water, the extinction of thousands of species all these form part of that greater concern that we must confront jointly. Similarly, terrorism, organized crime and drug trafficking can be combated effectively only if we act jointly and in coordination. If we do not, we will be jointly responsible as accomplices in the destruction of the hopes of the future youth and children. Our Organization should make a greater effort to overcome the disparity between abundance and want, of which very concrete examples abound. For instance, today hundreds of thousands of medicines are produced, but the millions of human beings affected by HIV/AIDS need access to these medicines if their pain is to be relieved. It is truly horrifying that the world produces thousands of metric tons more food than is needed to feed its population, and yet people are dying of hunger and malnutrition. The poverty and hunger of millions of human beings is an insult to humanity and an affront to the dignity of individuals. Here there is room for improved coordination. Our Organization continues its important efforts to prevent world conflicts. There have been many 23 achievements in implementing machinery for world order and peace, including peacekeeping activities and the work of the international tribunals. We have also seen progress in disarmament, particularly in terms of weapons of mass destruction. Aware of its international responsibilities, Honduras, to the extent that its resources permit, has also contributed to international peace and security, participating in the missions in Haiti and Western Sahara. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has also acted as a partner in the development process in many countries around the world. It has worked with national Governments, with society and local communities. UNDP is a trustworthy, active partner in the elaboration and implementation of medium- and long-term national strategies to contribute to the reduction of poverty. The Executive Board meeting of UNDP, held yesterday, was very successful in advancing UNDP reform. Honduras is actively participating in this process. The world of bipolar confrontation is no longer, and the era of cooperation is under way. Nevertheless, our Organization is still leaving out States that have contributed to development, that represent millions of beings and that participate actively in the world economy. For these and other reasons, which we have often cited in this General Assembly and in other international forums, these States should be participating in our debates and decisions. One such State is the Republic of China. At the dawning of the new millennium we must strengthen our membership, expand our representation of peoples and nations and ensure fairer and more balanced representation in the discussions and decisions of the Security Council. To this end, Honduras believes that the Security Council should make room for important development partners and representatives of the developing world, on the basis of equitable geographical representation and with the consensus of the existing regional groups. We also believe that the right to exercise the veto presently enjoyed by a limited number of States should be confined to specific topics and circumstances, so that it is not used merely to protect vested interests. The new vision we have of a renewed United Nations requires that our Organization become more competent, more agile and more responsible; that it be better administered, with a healthy financial system; and that it produce more tangible results for the peoples of the world. This is why we support the results of the Working Group of the General Assembly and believe that reforming and expanding the Council must be based on the broadest possible consensus and be in keeping with fair and equitable geographical representation, by which developing countries will be able to make substantial contributions to the decision- making process so as to solidify world peace and security. Our Organization must engage in self-criticism and be the first to propose changes to its working methods. Thematic dialogues designed to produce consensus and plans of action should replace the long, costly world conferences, the concrete results of which are not always easy to see. These lofty conferences should be replaced by a genuine debate in the General Assembly, and the procedures should be simplified so as to save the Organization the large sums that we are presently wasting because of duplication of efforts. I conclude by referring to the Millennium Summit held just last week. I would like to recall the idea of the President of the Republic of Honduras, Mr. Carlos Flores, that the United Nations can and must work to bring about the required coexistence of the poor and the rich, the large and the small, by means of a platform of sovereign equality and human solidarity. And our President said, `More than a world pained by poverty and inequity for the overwhelming majority, the world should be the sum of its peoples with at least their basic needs and essential requirements met.Sir, I offer you Jamaica's warmest congratulations as you assume the high honour of the presidency of the Millennium Assembly of the United Nations. At the same time, I wish to express our appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia, who, by his astute and judicious leadership, brought to a successful conclusion the work of the fifty-fourth session. I also take this opportunity to welcome Tuvalu, a fellow small island State, to the United Nations family. We meet in the wake of the historic gathering of world leaders last week, when the international community sought to redefine and articulate a common vision for the future of all its citizens. We now have the opportunity — indeed, the responsibility — to evaluate just how far we have come in the mission we set for ourselves through this Organization; to address honestly our shortcomings in commitment and action; and to examine practical, realistic strategies that will result in measurable progress in areas identified for urgent action. The Secretary-General, whom we commend for his stewardship during the past year, has urged us to consider a world in the future free from poverty. Indeed, promoting development that ensures the well- being of all peoples is one of the fundamental goals of this Organization. However, a review of our efforts to achieve this ideal shows uneven progress through an increasingly diffused institutional structure. Over the past decade, we have sought to refocus and articulate the development agenda by addressing key issues in a series of special global conferences. Through the respective political commitments and plans of action which we agreed to implement, we have sought to devise a network of policies and programmes to promote people-centred, sustainable development. Yet economic strategies embracing these goals have brought little tangible benefit to the majority of citizens of the international community. Nearly half of the world's people languish in extreme poverty, and still more remain on the fringes of the global economy. Development efforts have been frustrated by the challenges posed by globalization and trade liberalization. Sustainable development ultimately involves an enhanced capacity for income and employment generation, as well as the provision of equitable health, education and other social benefits. But this cannot be achieved without economic growth and expansion. It is this opportunity that globalization, which indeed carries the potential, has so far failed to deliver to the majority of developing countries. For small island States like Jamaica, there is another dimension to the development challenge. This is because of the well-known economic limitations of size, market and resource base, a fragile ecosystem and susceptibility to natural disasters. Decades of investment in infrastructure and industry can be wiped out during a single hurricane, destroying the economy and diverting resources to reconstruction and rehabilitation for a number of years. Small economies attempting to compete effectively in the international trading system are just as vulnerable. There is a need for an urgent review of the inequities in the global trading system whereby selective application of the regulations permits developed countries to maintain protectionist policies and subsidies that work against developing country exports, while stripping the more vulnerable of preferential market access. We are deeply concerned that a mechanism established to promote free trade for growth and development could be so manipulated that it exposes the smallest and weakest to a hostile trading environment while removing their means of survival. 6 Special and differential treatment provisions have not been implemented, and the request for duty-free, quota- free treatment for the least developed countries has not been agreed to. We are particularly disappointed that, in ongoing negotiations to reach agreement on a marketing regime for bananas that is compatible with the World Trade Organization (WTO), we have found little flexibility, no empathy and an unwillingness to compromise on the part of those challenging the regime. Meanwhile, implementation of the WTO panel ruling has resulted in a dramatic loss of export markets in some Caribbean Community (CARICOM) States, spiralling unemployment, increasing poverty and many other social ills. For there can be no development without growth, and no growth without trade. Deteriorating terms of trade adversely affect the balance of payments, exacerbating external debt. Many developing countries continue to experience severe debt burdens, and, in some cases, the debt problem has worsened over the past decade, trapping those countries in a vicious circle of poverty and underdevelopment. We must address the debilitating effect of debt servicing, which undermines growth prospects and compromises governments' capacity to finance basic social programmes. The international community should implement the debt-relief schemes already agreed to and design new mechanisms appropriate to different countries' circumstances. The globalization of trade, finance and swiftly advancing information technology will present unprecedented opportunities well into the twenty-first century. For developing countries, however, the challenges of the trading system, limited access to international financial flows, a crippling debt burden and a low capacity to assimilate information technology will prevent meaningful participation in the international marketplace. Hence, the widening gap between rich and poor nations in the face of unlimited opportunity is the disturbing irony that we now contemplate. If we are now to lay the foundation for a world free from poverty, then a new ethos in global governance must prevail: one that gives more than lip service to the development aspirations of developing countries; one that addresses responsibly the need for economic adjustment, reform and closer monitoring of the international financial infrastructure; and one that promotes greater coordination and cooperation between the major institutions and intergovernmental organizations responsible for international trade, finance and development. That such cooperation is already being explored is indeed encouraging. But we will need serious commitment. Until now, there have been no parallel discussions on reforming the international financial architecture and the international trading system. The work of the Preparatory Committee for the High-level International Intergovernmental Event on Financing for Development, including consultations with the Bretton Woods institutions, has progressed uneasily, leaving uncertainty regarding the outcome and likely success of that landmark meeting. We will wait to see whether meaningful World Trade Organization (WTO) participation will take place, as we consider it important to successful deliberations. Of course, we applaud the evolving relationship between the Bretton Woods institutions and the Economic and Social Council. Each brings to the partnership its unique characteristics and strengths, which should make for successful collaboration. Perhaps similar relationships might also be established with the World Trade Organization. That cooperation, long overdue, reinforces the integral role that we believe the United Nations should play in key international decision-making on all issues which affect sustainable human development. We look forward to the extension of this cooperation beyond the co-financing of development projects, towards the harmonization of mechanisms and policies. The importance of South-South cooperation as an effective instrument for the promotion of development among developing countries cannot be overemphasized. The historic meeting of the leaders of the South, held at Havana this year, strengthened our commitment to forge a common strategy for our future, sharing resources, expertise and best practices in partnership with one another. We strongly urge the continued strengthening of mechanisms that advance South-South relations and promote self-reliance. Increasingly, we must look to each other for our survival in the existing global environment. We continue to look to the organs and agencies of the United Nations system to play a central role in supporting and advancing the development efforts of Member States. We are deeply concerned at the decline 7 in contributions to core resources for operational activities, and at the effect this has had in the narrowing and re-ordering of priorities in programme delivery. It is impossible to reconcile the contraction in core contributions with the donor community's expressed commitment to multilateral development assistance. The capacity of United Nations funds and programmes to maintain current levels of programme delivery is a matter deserving the urgent attention of Member States. We take this opportunity to place on record our appreciation for the valuable work of United Nations operational agencies in Jamaica. Next year's special session of the General Assembly on children will give the international community an opportunity to renew its commitment and to consider further action to improve the quality of life for the world's children in the next decade. The role of the United Nations as defender of international peace and security has undergone major transformation in the past decade. As inter-State tensions dissolved with the end of the cold war, civil conflicts developed in Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe to take their place. The Security Council is now searching to adjust and redefine an effective strategy to deal with the new imperatives of peacekeeping and peace-building. This has meant seeking a delicate balance between respect for sovereignty and the urgent need for humanitarian intervention. In too many cases the resolution of conflict has remained elusive owing to political ambitions or to racial or ethnic intolerance. Furthermore, the brutality and violence of conflict have often taken their toll on innocent civilians and children, creating still more new challenges with an increasing number of refugees and internally displaced persons. Humanitarian intervention in such cases is imperative. The effectiveness of peacekeeping missions is under scrutiny in the face of sharply escalating peacekeeping budgets. Rather than waiting until conflicts spiral out of control, we need to place more emphasis on conflict prevention. Jamaica therefore strongly supports the formulation of a comprehensive United Nations strategy to address the root causes of conflict. It is time that we acknowledged that economic deprivation and social injustice lead to political and economic instability. Therefore, effective conflict prevention, peacekeeping and peace building must incorporate a development component, and provide for the strengthening of civil institutions, particularly in post-conflict reconstruction. And we must not forget the importance of adequately equipping the United Nations machinery to ensure robust intervention at every stage of the peacekeeping process, particularly for rapid deployment when necessary. This should also include resources adequate to ensure the safety of our troops deployed in missions across the world. It is the very least that we owe them. Jamaica pays tribute today to those who have paid the ultimate price in the service of peace. The deadly flow of illegal small arms around the world continues unabated, sustained by greed and lawlessness. This illicit arms trade contributes significantly to the escalation and perpetuation of violence in conflict and post-conflict areas, undermining peacekeeping operations and frustrating efforts at disarmament, demobilization and the restoration of civil order. But this phenomenon is not unique to countries in a state of war. The illegal traffic in weapons is also linked to the illicit trade in narcotics, and this undermines stable democracies like Jamaica, destroying the social fabric of our communities. This situation simply cannot stand. Urgent action is needed. Global interdependence warrants collective action to stem the flow of these guns from producer to receiving States. The responsibility to curb this illicit traffic cannot rest with the receiving States alone. Jamaica looks with anticipation to the convening of the first International Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects next year. It is our hope that this meeting will address comprehensively and decisively national, regional and international measures to regulate and control the legal manufacture, acquisition and transfer of small arms; measures related to the marking, registration and tracing of these weapons; and mechanisms for the systematic exchange of information. The transhipment of nuclear and other hazardous waste through the Caribbean Sea poses yet another kind of danger to the security of small island States of the subregion. The Caribbean Community has repeatedly expressed concern at the threat to the fragile marine and coastal environment of the Caribbean posed by this continued practice. A single nuclear accident in 8 this semi-enclosed sea would have consequences we dare not even contemplate. This concern was again brought to the attention of the international community during the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on Nuclear Non-Proliferation, held earlier this year. We look forward to cooperating with like-minded States, and we propose to work towards ensuring that a regime is established for liability and compensation to our countries in the event of an accident. On Friday, 8 September, Jamaica signed the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. We now look forward to the contribution that the Court will ultimately make to the strengthening of international jurisprudence, by addressing the serious crimes of global concern committed by individuals who hitherto escaped the reach of the law. We are also very pleased to report that the International Seabed Authority has completed its drafting of the Mining Code. This marks an important first step in the process toward the full establishment of operations of the Authority that will ultimately enable all nations to share in exploitation of the resources of the seabed. Jamaica encourages wider participation in the work of the International Seabed Authority and urges Member States to act to ensure its continued financial viability. While the United Nations is by no means perfect, we still meet here because we hold an enduring faith in the principles and ideals that it represents. We are convinced that it remains the best forum for dialogue and resolution of disputes. Let us now face the future together responsibly, with full respect for the needs, aspirations and rights of our fellow man. This may well be difficult to achieve, but shared objectives, shared commitment and shared responsibilities will ensure a better world for all humankind. As we contemplate the challenges for the future, let us resolve to begin a new dialogue within the United Nations system to forge a global partnership for peace, democracy and economic progress.On behalf of the Burundi delegation and on my own behalf, I first congratulate you warmly, Sir, on your election to lead the work of the current session. Your election is an honour and a sign of the great esteem in which the United Nations family holds you and your country, Finland, which maintains friendly, cooperative relations with Burundi. I would further like to pay a well deserved tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, who masterfully led the work of the previous session. We particularly appreciated his competence, dedication and high level of commitment to successfully fulfilling his mandate. I also salute the dynamic and innovative work of Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, to achieve peace, security and development throughout the world. My delegation greatly appreciates his report, “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twentyfirst century”, which undertakes a painstaking and uncompromising analysis of the great challenges of these times and proposes an approach to overcoming them so that it will be possible to live in a world free from want and fear, in a world that meets our aspirations. Finally, it is my pleasure to welcome warmly Tuvalu as a new Member of our Organization, and at the same time to congratulate it on its wise decision to our ranks at this beginning of the new millennium. My delegation unreservedly supports and endorses the Millennium Declaration, adopted by our heads of State and Government on 8 September 2000. We very much hope that its pertinent recommendations, made by almost all the world's leaders, will not become a dead letter. The United Nations, and each country in particular, must implement the appropriate strategies to translate the recommendations into concrete actions that can improve the future of our populations and peoples — in particular the most disadvantaged. At one of the meetings of the Millennium Summit, which concluded on 8 September 2000, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Burundi, speaking on behalf of the head of State, stated: “The Burundian people are in the process of turning a page in their history. The agreement on peace and national reconciliation was signed on 28 August in Arusha, Tanzania, before the eyes of the entire world, which hailed the occasion. This was a qualitative leap 12 forward towards a better future for the Burundian people.” (A/55/PV.7) Later the Minister said, however: “Everything has not yet been resolved ... the greatest remaining challenge is ending the war, without which the implementation of the agreement is practically impossible.” (ibid.) The end to the war was to have been negotiated yesterday, 20 September, at a meeting scheduled in Nairobi between the Government and the rebels, and before the heads of State of the region. The President of the Republic himself represented the Government. The heads of State of the region and, of course, the mediator were also there. The three political parties that had not signed the 28 August peace agreement were also there, and they signed the agreement. Thus the maximum number of parties have now accepted this agreement. As for the rebels, only one movement, the FNL, was represented by its leader. The head of the other movement — the CNDD-FDD, which is the more important group — did not make the trip. The two movements refused to negotiate anything or to meet with the Government delegation. Rather, they contented themselves with repeating their preconditions and pleading that they had to consult their rank and file before making any commitments. Thus the meeting was a failure. The hopes of the Burundi people of seeing the violence come to an end were dashed. The implementation of the peace agreement has been called into question. The signatories to the agreement on peace and national reconciliation — negotiated two years ago — are now accused of being traitors and men of straw, and are being asked to return to the negotiating table. Those taking part in the rebel uprising go so far as to call into question the good faith of the leaders who sponsored the negotiations and the signing of the peace agreement. Before denouncing the 28 August peace agreement, the rebel uprising had hidden itself behind a series of preconditions for the ceasefire negotiations. The two principal preconditions were as follows. The first precondition was the dismantling of the regroupment camps. This precondition has been meaningless since 31 July 2000, because the Government had committed itself to dismantling the camps by that date, and it kept this promise, as the United Nations has confirmed on the basis of reports from its agencies working in the field in Burundi. The facilitator, Mr. Nelson Mandela, himself publicly reaffirmed these reports during the signing of the peace agreement on 28 August. The second precondition related to the release of political prisoners — an issue that has been the source of a great deal of disagreement between the negotiating parties. But since then, thanks to the compromise that the parties have reached, contained in article 15 and point 20 of the second protocol to the peace agreement, the current Government can create an independent commission to look into, inter alia, the issues of prison conditions and political prisoners. That is why it has just asked the Secretary-General to send to Burundi a team of experts in criminal law to inquire freely into the existence or nonexistence of political prisoners in Burundi. It is no longer possible to deal with this question outside of the peace agreement unless one wants to imperil the entire peace process. The Government and the people of Burundi were very grateful for the opportunity they had to explain to the Facilitator during his two visits to Burundi how delicate the problem was. Burundians suffer enormously from war; they want finally to breathe the air of peace. Deadly, wanton ambushes against people travelling on the roads, attacks on innocent people in the hills and in the displaced persons camps, theft of livestock, destruction of houses, crops, social infrastructure and so on — all of this must stop so that, finally, our country can regain its peace and tranquillity. Setting conditions to halt violence is cruel, and the international community must condemn this attitude and those responsible for it. Given the intransigence of the rebels, the Government of Burundi calls upon the region and the international community to implement the provisions of article 2 of the peace agreement, which states that if the armed groups of the non-signatory parties reject the invitation made in the agreement to suspend hostilities and to start negotiations for a ceasefire, the guarantors of the agreement, particularly the Governments of neighbouring States, and the international organizations will take “the necessary steps to stop, 13 demobilize, disarm and, where appropriate, arrest, detain and repatriate the members of these armed groups and, furthermore, take all appropriate steps against any party which encourages and supports such activities”. In the absence of a ceasefire not only do the innocent continue to die, but also the refugees and displaced persons cannot return home; assistance to rebuild the country cannot begin; and even the transitional institutions established cannot function properly. Why is the international community silent when two armed movements are holding hostage an entire people that had pinned so many hopes on the peace agreement which has now been signed by 19 out of 19 parties — in other words, all of the negotiators? The Government, as it has often repeated, is prepared to negotiate directly with the rebels and to conclude the ceasefire agreement as soon as possible. It will also continue to explain the peace agreement to the people so that they will support its contents and its programme. It is also continuing consultations in order to arrive at compromise solutions regarding the reservations expressed by certain parties about the agreement and other questions that are still pending. We would be deluding ourselves if we said that Burundi will attain peace and security without a favourable environment in the subregion and in Africa in general. Unfortunately, nothing leads one yet to hope that peace will be established in the Great Lakes region any time soon. The Lusaka agreements signed in August 1999 still offer a few glimmers of hope before actually entering into force. However, they are an important basis for the resolution of the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The summit that took place, again in Lusaka, on 14 and 15 August 2000 unfortunately ended in failure, even though it was one more chance to establish the basis for peace. However, a lost opportunity should not discourage us. We would like here to say that we very much support President Frederick Chiluba of the Republic of Zambia for his tireless efforts to find a solution to the question of the Congo, and we encourage him to persevere. Contrary to the allegations made by the head of the delegation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo from this rostrum on 16 September, I wish to reaffirm that the only interest of my country, Burundi, is to maintain security over our borders. We have no other ambitions, political or economic, with regard to any neighbouring country. And we hope that the same applies to our neighbouring countries, in particular those who give refuge to and assist the Burundian rebels. Each country, and the subregion in general, must focus on problems of development. The ideology of genocide, which is undermining the entire Great Lakes region, and the many armed rebellions by those who champion that ideology, will be overcome only through the concerted and determined efforts of all States of the Great Lakes region, with the active support of the international community. In this context, the conference on peace, security and development for the Great Lakes countries, envisaged for several years now, can be successful only if each country of the region makes a meaningful effort to improve their domestic policies. By holding the Millennium Summit, the United Nations chose a very opportune moment to discuss the great challenges that await us in the coming century: peace, security and disarmament, on the one hand, and development and the eradication of poverty, on the other. As is so well summarized by the SecretaryGeneral in his report, we must live free from fear and free from want. Although these two goals are the very essence of our Organization, it must be stated that, unfortunately, we are still wide of the mark. Fratricidal wars continue to break out in various parts of the world and it takes too long to put the fires out. Conflicts break out on the borders of neighbouring countries, and entire communities are forced into exile. Given the multitude of these conflicts and their complexity, the international community has only a mixed record of success. Like other heads of delegations that have preceded me, I am inclined to wonder why our Organization does not do better in preventing and resolving conflicts and in peacekeeping. On this subject, we very much support the implementation of the valuable recommendations in the Brahimi report, which was the outcome of an in-depth study at the request of Mr. Kofi Annan on the activities of the United Nations in the area of peace. We welcome the steps already taken by the Secretary-General to prepare a detailed plan for the implementation of these recommendations. 14 If our Organization were to engage in some selfquestioning, we would probably find that one of the primary causes for failure lies in the very functioning of the United Nations. The Security Council decides on everything, and it decides too slowly. In the face of urgent situations, there is too much procrastination due to political expediency which is very often insufficiently understood by the international community. Over the last fifty years, it is the same people who decide the fate of humanity while safeguarding the interests of some States as a matter of priority. People who seek urgent assistance thus have the impression that they are being held hostage or are being abandoned to their fate because international solidarity, so keenly awaited, does not materialize. My delegation, therefore, reiterates the hope that we will re-think the functioning, composition and attributes of the Security Council in order to revitalize it and to adapt it to this ongoing state of change. The question of the equitable representation of all regions of the world on the Security Council and the question of increasing the number of members, both permanent and non-permanent, deserve our attention. They are in tune with the imperatives of democracy and legitimacy in making decisions in this highly important Organization — the United Nations. Only such a reform can restore the confidence of all Member States in reviving the force of law in international affairs, because today, weak nations are confronting, basically, the law of force. In order to do this the establishment of the International Criminal Court, the Statute of which was adopted in Rome in 1998, will, I am sure, be a useful tool to combat impunity. Although sanctions fall exclusively within the competence of the Security Council, from 31 July 1996 until January 1999, Burundi lived under a regime of economic sanctions imposed by neighbouring countries, which was in violation of the United Nations Charter because it was not an initiative of the Security Council. As has been pointed out, such sanctions have proved to be both unfair and counterproductive. Because of the adverse effects of these sanctions in the economic and social area, those who suffer the most are innocent people — the elderly, women and children. The Security Council should therefore resort to targeted sanctions only in serious and exceptional circumstances when other methods of pressure have failed, in order to avoid causing harm to the entire population. The other major obstacle to world peace is the proliferation of light weapons — paradoxically, in poor countries. Only with the combined efforts of all States will we be able to deal with this phenomenon, because arms manufacturers and merchants form a worldwide network that represents big financial interests. Any peacekeeping programme should therefore include, as a matter of priority, the monitoring of flows of light arms, since it is such weapons that are used by most clandestine movements to cause death and destruction through terrorism. Furthermore, fear cannot be dispelled from the world as long as competition to produce weapons of mass destruction continues. Our Organization should do everything it can to bring about complete global denuclearization in the medium term. This standing threat to humanity undermines all hopes for a world of peace, to which the founding fathers of our world Organization aspired. Those with the responsibility of governing some of the poorest countries in the world appreciate, on a daily basis, just how hard it is to ensure that peace can prevail in a community that is bereft of food and other basic needs. A proverb in our national language, Kirundi, says, “If you go to sleep with an empty stomach, you will wake up with a heart full of hatred”. It is no secret that the world has an abundance of riches and resources of all kinds. But that does not prevent people in some parts of the world from dying of hunger or malnutrition, while their fellow human beings in other parts of the world — and sometimes even in their own countries and cities — are wallowing in luxury. This means that true cooperation is the kind that encourages growth in production and income to enable people to take control of health, education, nutrition and decent housing. By giving greater assistance to the poorest countries, the rich countries would be working not only for a fairer world but for greater security for their own people. The millennium report of the Secretary-General, submitted under agenda item 49 (b) of the fifty-fourth session, rightly stresses the seriousness of the tragedy caused by the HIV/AIDS pandemic throughout the world, focusing particular attention on Africa. Of the 36 million people who are HIV-positive, more than 23 15 million are in sub-Saharan African. According to that report, in the same region, more than one child in ten has lost its mother to AIDS. The very pessimistic prediction has been made that by 2010 there will be 40 million orphans. Burundi has not escaped this dangerous epidemic, which appeared at the beginning of the 1980s and is continuing to cause devastation today, particularly among the most active and, therefore, the most productive people. In the meantime, with the assistance of the World Health Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund and other actors, to which we extend our heartfelt thanks, my Government has launched a robust prevention policy against HIV/AIDS. A special fund has been established to combat this scourge, which could decimate entire generations. That is why we endorse the recommendations of the Secretary-General to reduce the HIV infection rate, particularly by increasing access to information, education and health services for people who are already infected. At the same time, we recommend that the pharmaceutical industry be provided with all the financial support necessary to develop an effective and affordable vaccine to eradicate this scourge by the end of the century. Before we can be sure of having built a more secure and prosperous world, we must be mindful of the need to bequeath to our children an environmentally balanced planet. Unfortunately, we have to say that the industrial progress that was supposed to have generated prosperity is making our natural environment increasingly unhealthy. We must, as a matter of urgency, control the quality of industrial production and the phenomenon of population growth, particularly in urban areas, if we wish to safeguard quality of life for future generations. We have often behaved as if nature would remain healthy without our making any effort. Today, desertification is a threat to many countries that used to be covered with vegetation. Drought has invaded regions that used to be crossed by great rivers and streams. In those places where there is still enough water, it takes millions of dollars to treat it to make it potable. My delegation would like to reiterate the Secretary-General's appeal to all Member States at the Millennium Summit to fund an assessment of ecosystems before it is too late. The result would no doubt be a clear, realistic programme to protect our environment. Despite the difficult situation in which we have been living for several years, Burundi, in close cooperation with other Member States, will work steadfastly to achieve the goals pursued by our Organization. We hope that the United Nations will adapt to current challenges and to changing international relations for the benefit of all humankind.  ﻿Allow me first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I wish also to congratulate most sincerely the Secretary-General on his comprehensive and detailed report outlining the most important challenges facing the international community in the twenty-first century. 9 The heads of State or Government of the States Members of the United Nations drew inspiration from this important document for the Millennium Summit, which has just concluded, at which they expressed their collective commitment and determination to adopt policies in favour of a globalization process benefiting the entire world population. International cooperation among Governments will pave the way for an increasingly integrated system in which all States are inevitably involved, thus bringing all the peoples of the world closer together. San Marino believes that a wider globalization process of a juridical, ethical and cultural nature, in which solidarity is a major concern, is a sine qua non for the achievement of genuine economic globalization. The Republic I represent is fully convinced that it is the responsibility of all countries of the world to ensure economic and social development and to address threats to international peace and security, and that the United Nations must play a central role in shaping our common future. Against this backdrop, the question of the least developed countries burdened with a huge foreign debt must be re-examined, in the conviction that debt relief must form an integral part of the contribution offered by the international community to worldwide development. Since the economic and social development of many countries is being irreparably hindered by debt problems, international solidarity is an imperative for everybody, just as human rights and dignity must not be violated in the name of market laws. At the dawn of the third millennium, it is unacceptable that half of the world's population still lives in extreme poverty, with an income of barely two dollars a day. The indifference to this problem is a disgrace to humanity as a whole, since we are all well aware that poverty often triggers domestic and international conflicts and leads to exploitation and underdevelopment. Against this gloomy background characterized by blatant contrasts, the international community must concentrate its efforts on the protection of the most vulnerable, who bear the heaviest burden, and must pay special attention to women and children, who are the main victims of poverty, violence and exploitation. Prompted by the conviction that legal cooperation, at an international level, is crucial to the protection of the rights of the child, San Marino was the first country to sign, this year, the Optional Protocol on child pornography, and the second country to sign the Optional Protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflicts. The Republic is actively preparing to participate in the Special Session on Children to be held in September 2001, where progress made over the last decade in the protection of children will be reviewed. On that occasion, the international community will lay the foundations for ensuring that children enjoy their full juridical status. Well aware that legal equality between men and women has become a major concern, both nationally and internationally, San Marino welcomes the results of the 1995 Beijing Conference, as well as those of its follow-up special review session held in New York last June. The technology revolution, among the most important ones of the last decades, has caused radical changes in international relations. We all hope that information technology and the Internet will be increasingly used by the poorest countries as instruments of economic and cultural development. In this context, I wish to reiterate my country's commitment and willingness to take part in the latest United Nations projects aimed at reducing illiteracy through computer science and promoting the knowledge and use of new technologies in developing countries. In this way, new technologies, far from widening the gap between rich and poor countries, will benefit everybody. In this spirit, the international community as a whole has the duty to contribute to the consolidation of democracy in Africa and to help its populations, under the auspices of the United Nations, in their struggle for lasting peace, poverty eradication and the achievement of just and sustainable social development. The entire international community has the moral and civil obligation to put an end to the conflicts afflicting many African countries and to counter the growing instability caused by ethnic and territorial divisions in some of these States or regions. In fact, if international peace is to be attained, the right of each individual to live in peace and security must be guaranteed. The numerous and cruel acts of genocide witnessed by the twentieth century recently led the 10 international community to set up an International Criminal Court in order to prevent the authors of crimes against humanity from going unpunished. San Marino, the first European country to ratify the Statute of the Court, hopes that other Parliaments will add to the 19 having already deposited their instruments of ratification, so as to attain the minimum number, enabling the Court to be operative and become a juridical and moral authority. On behalf of my country, I wish to thank the Secretary-General for having made the Organization more efficient and modern, through a series of reforms. Yet, with regard to the reform of the Security Council, Member States could not make any decision in the absence of a general agreement. In this regard, let me express my sincere hope for a comprehensive, democratic and fair reform of the Security Council soon. At the beginning of a new millennium, the consolidation of a more efficient and representative governance, at an international level, bridging the gap between the haves and have-nots, is our common expectation. Globalization being an irreversible process, we rely on the power and ability of this institution, which we believe in and which we are striving to strengthen.  Ms. Lydie Polfer, Vice-Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Luxembourg regrets having had to cut short her stay in New York. She has asked me to make this statement in her place. The Millennium Summit has given us the testimony of the heads of State and Government. This exceptional meeting was the opportunity for a renewed commitment of States throughout the world to our Organization, encouraging common efforts to give every citizen the freedom to enjoy a decent life and opening the way for self-fulfilment for individuals and their communities. We congratulate and commend you, Sir, as the new President of the General Assembly. We also express our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Theo- Ben Gurirab, for the vigour of his presidency. Our Secretary-General has tirelessly emphasized the urgent need to act by innovating and ensuring a sustained pace for the work of the Organization. We also commend him and especially encourage him to continue his work. My speech today will emphasize the themes of Luxembourg's message to the Millennium Summit. The speech by Mr. Hubert VÈdrine, the French Minister for Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the European Union fully reflects the point of view of my country. In 1999 we restated the main themes of the Luxembourg Government's involvement in Europe and within the United Nations and its commitment to strengthened international solidarity, demonstrated by the fact that in 2000 my country has reached the objective set by the United Nations of official development assistance of 0.7 per cent of gross national product. This year is a time to speak further of the principle of shared responsibility, because the world has to face the old challenges of violence and development, as well as the more recent one of globalization. Globalization is both a source of achievement and cause for concern. It is ambivalent and requires adequate instruments in order to manage it and gear it towards equitable development. Without a common definition of the rules to be applied, it could give rise to bitterness and revolt. But the use of violence might compromise the path towards development. It is a matter of concern that worldwide arms sales have been on the rise since 1996. The horror of constant violence committed by human beings against each other could simply make us grieve. However, such a passive attitude would not do justice to the realities of this world. The number of armed conflicts has in fact gone down, from 55 in 1992 to 36 in 1998, but this bare statistic does not explain how this decrease took place. 2 However, another statistic should grab our attention: between 1974 and 1999, 113 countries went from an authoritarian regime to a multi-party system. More meaningful than statistics is the encouraging fact that the number of negotiation processes has increased, the key to their success often being innovative formulas to achieve peaceful coexistence where previously there was deadlock and resentment. East Timor, the conference between Somalis in Djibouti and the new inter-Korean dialogue are recent examples. In spite of the obvious difficulties, these constructive developments show by their number and diversity that preventing conflicts is a strategy in motion. We have to consolidate this strategy of prevention in order to show that it produces lasting results. Of course, there are many failures, and we must not close our eyes to the difficulties. In Kosovo, in particular, intolerant behaviour led to a sort of blindness, even in people who had themselves suffered oppression. Psychology teaches us that former victims do not always avoid eventually becoming executioners. We must put an end to this vicious circle and stop unbridled criminality. The commitment of the Special Representative, Bernard Kouchner, and of all those who are working to brighten a grey sky brings us a message of hope which will bear fruit. At the end of the cold war our hopes were perhaps inspired by impatience. Today we see that there are solid foundations: above and beyond academic investigations and the awakening of conscience, concrete action is being taken. We thank the community of organizations and individuals present in the field; those who pay with their lives expect others to support them and to provide the necessary means. But the major responsibility is not to disappoint those in direct need of assistance: victims, displaced persons and refugees, those denied the protection of the rule of law, even the means of subsistence. And when management deficiencies lead to short-sighted over- exploitation and stifling pollution of an environment that can take no more, this phenomenon should be reversed and responsibility established and assumed. How can we believe that catastrophes will go unnoticed or that international solidarity will not bother to analyse the cause of events? Crime must not pay. This concept will go from theory to practice in the globalization era. Information is spreading ineluctably and innovations are being made. International law may be lagging behind certain technologies, but it is in the process of being developed. For example, universal participation in the overall structure of multilateral treaties, which was strongly stimulated by the Millennium Summit. Another example is the courts to try war crimes, genocide or crimes against humanity. After the creation of tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, some countries are considering establishing courts in cooperation with the United Nations. National courts have instituted proceedings, and as a result the era of impunity is ending. Luxembourg was the eighteenth State to ratify the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which will go into effect after 41 more ratifications. In democracy the rule of law prevails, but political action is crucial to its development. Through the major conferences of the 1990s and their follow- ups, the United Nations has shown clearly that such conferences are also an important source of law. The guidelines that emerge stimulate the creation of domestic laws, and their juxtaposition produces a vast, internationally recognized network. Future actions, including the campaign against small arms, financing for development and the World Conference against Racism, will help promote the rule of law. Stable, but not rigidly fixed, transparent and subject to democratic controls, the rule of law is certainly one of the most reliable pillars for development. But the international community and the United Nations will have to build other pillars as well as part of the structure for a world in which poverty and violence no longer threaten us. Without going into detail, I refer to the need to remember, respect for equality, the will for prevention and openness to cooperation. The century which is drawing to a close was the most terrible in the history of mankind in terms of absolute numbers of victims, and also in conceptual terms, because it led to the development and use of weapons of mass destruction. Above all, it saw several cases of genocide on an unheard-of scale, openly motivated by the most despicable racism. It is essential to study the mechanisms which lead to these aberrations into inhumanity, because repetitions of such 3 destructive phenomena should be rejected and made impossible. The conclusion to be drawn is that we should remember, which means escaping from ignorance and always bearing in mind the lessons of the past. If the countries of the European Union are very sensitive whenever they encounter xenophobia, racism and the rejection of those who are different, it is because we are resolved at all costs to act to avoid once again succumbing to the sickness of hatred. A Europe with a growing population, a European Union spreading to the east and the south, must act with determination to continue the course of openness. Luxembourg is a laboratory with a mixture of peoples, as a result of our being at the crossroads of French and German culture and because of the impact of immigration of long ago. The moral outlook of its citizens leads them to respect others and their individuality. With the coming of sovereignty, independence and development became a reality for our country, and with them a strong adherence to the principle of equality, whether of individuals or States. It is the responsibility of all States to expose the dangers of any tendency to feel contempt for others. Unfortunately, division and lack of respect for the worth of the individual can be seen on every continent. Only five years ago the world deplored the most violent racist crimes in Bosnia and Rwanda. Such crimes must be rejected, for they create openings that the prejudiced quickly take advantage of. We must collectively assume responsibility in the fight against this vicious circle. Respect for equality requires that we do not make independence a sanctuary. Rather, it demands that we accept each other as partners and recognize the legitimacy of our respective interests. Thanks to the progress of the European Union, classic sovereignty has been replaced for its member States by an interdependence whose positive effects are impressive. The solution, in the year 2000, is no longer abstract independence, but concrete cooperation. Throughout the year 2000, the Security Council has devoted a great deal of time to Africa in recognition of the seriousness of the phenomenon of taking large portions of countries hostage. Some of these crises are being fuelled by the exploitation of natural resources. The significant international reaction to these events is encouraging, but it must also lead to the elimination of these situations. Among them, I will mention the problems in Angola, Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. These catastrophes, along with other developments in particular in East Timor, in southern Lebanon and along the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea have contributed to a considerable increase in United Nations peacekeeping activities. However, these activities are suffering from a lack of resources, to such an extent that both their operations and their credibility are compromised. Instead of being a deterrent, they risk becoming simply an alibi. I hope that this session will be able to adopt energetic measures to implement the recommendations of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations, chaired by Mr. Brahimi. The lack of financial resources should not be an insurmountable obstacle. Further, it is appropriate to take up this issue as part of this session's agenda item on the scale of assessments for peacekeeping operations. But in fact, these activities are above all operations aimed at maintaining ceasefires. Achieving peace requires other efforts first and foremost the will to prevent conflicts and the determination to avoid their resurgence. After the research, the passionate discussions and the debates most recently those that took place in the Security Council and in the General Assembly committee on the prevention of conflicts in Africa have we found sufficient will to now take action? Such a critical mass is necessary if a determined will to prevent conflicts is going to be manifested. Human solidarity will be essential in those instances in which the parties show they are incapable of avoiding conflict and when attacks on the integrity of individuals and major material consequences can be clearly foreseen. Indifference and lack of assistance in the face of danger no longer accord with the universal awareness of the reality of our interconnectedness, which grows in parallel with the spread of knowledge. This is an ethical issue, but it is also an issue of knowledge and technical resources. Luxembourg intends to create a civilian action corps to go on humanitarian and human development missions. Luxembourg will contribute to the United Nations funds for peace-building, and it is involved in peacekeeping operations and in reconstruction missions. 4 The will to prevent conflicts entails the ability to choose from among a great range of mechanisms that are capable of dissuading those who, as a result of ignorance or provocation, are turning to aggression. This will to prevent conflicts can be that much more effective in managing disputes if it is invoked well before violence breaks out. Over eight years, the discreet action of the High Commissioner on National Minorities of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Mr. Max van der Stoel, has amply justified the confidence placed in him by 55 European States and former Soviet Republics and has produced significant results. When people are struggling in isolation, external cooperation and solidarity can remove the most difficult obstacles. The noteworthy Human Development Report 2000 of the United Nations Development Programme stresses the importance of preventing conflicts, of inclusive democracy and of respect for human rights as means of preventing countries that have been bled white from being excluded from the benefits of the global economy and of global technology. For their part, Mr. Annan and Mr. Brahimi remind us that every action to reduce poverty and ensure a solid foundation for growth is a step towards preventing conflicts. This is one of the keys of development. It is a very reliable method for building confidence and reducing poverty. It is a responsibility that we must take up. The effort cannot be undertaken unless external cooperation is not in itself an obstacle. In many cases it gives rise to questions and resistance. But cooperation that is not welcome is pointless. Unfortunately, at times mistrust and a certain pride prevail and lead to a fortress mentality. This in turn can lead to overemphasizing identity issues and to the development of a mental block. When a terrifying earthquake rocked Turkey in 1999, the Greeks offered their assistance. This gesture and the Turks' acceptance of it have profoundly transformed bilateral relations that have been particularly difficult. This positive, spontaneous development was the result of the awareness of Foreign Ministers Papandreou and Cem that the ongoing harm being caused by the earlier mistrust was not acceptable. This positive development is continuing, and it is greatly hoped that it will soon be reflected in the conversations, under the aegis of the United Nations, between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities conversations that are at present indirect. When confidence comes up against the invisible wall of ignorance, even the tendered hand will not be taken. Thus, those who are separated by a psychological chasm should construct a bridgehead and express in a decent manner their willingness to achieve mutual recognition. The Israelis and Palestinians were reconciled in significant ways as a result of the Camp David conversations. President Clinton, for his perseverance, Prime Minister Barak and President Arafat, for their awareness of history and their common acceptance of their shared responsibility to the future, deserve encouragement and the firmest support in their effort to conclude this historic process. I am convinced that the resources of this dialogue have not been exhausted. There is an opportunity to achieve, within the next few weeks, a framework agreement. It must remain clear that the willingness to cooperate has been firmly established. This willingness will be seconded by the willingness of the international community, and of Europe in particular, to offer its support to the establishment of peace and to the reconstruction efforts. The sculpting of the role of the United Nations, the shape of its future work, will be a complex and demanding task if we expect the Organization to escape its current fragility and affirm its responsibility. But perhaps we can rely increasingly on the vast experience that has been gained during past actions. The development of this collection of experiences requires increasing internal cohesion. The responsibility for the development of this cohesion falls on the Organization's Members. This is the objective we must set for ourselves. The willingness to cooperate must lead to the elaboration of healthy administrative and financial structures, as well as to balanced relations between the principal organs, none of which should be exempt from periodic reform. Today the United Nations cannot be said to be in a position to meet these criteria. Therefore, is it not indispensable that its Members pay their assessments without delay or conditions, and in full? The fact that the Security Council is not being reformed and the distance between the Council and the vast majority of General Assembly members does not 5 contribute to the effectiveness of the Organization. The bridges that the United Nations will try to construct should include, in order to seek greater unity of action, a reinvigorated relationship between the General Assembly and a duly enlarged Security Council. The United Nations will be put to the test. As a result of the pursuit of globalization the Organization will be in demand. Will it be capable of meeting the challenge and of responding in a way that will put the Organization at the centre of the major international discussions? Even after the Millennium Summit it would be rash to claim that this question is closed. Luxembourg hopes that it will be possible to respond positively, and Luxembourg reaffirms its willingness to cooperate so that we can proceed together in this direction.  We are living at a decisive moment in the history of humankind. More than half a century after the creation of the United Nations, on the threshold of a new millennium that was supposed to herald an era of peace among men, solidarity among nations and greater well- being for the poorest people, we are confronted instead by the most serious and complex economic, social, political and environmental crisis in the history of the human race. The expectations of peace, stability and cooperation that the end of the cold war triggered throughout the world are far from becoming a reality. The emergence of a unipolar world in which a single super-Power is capable of militarily controlling the international scene, far from meaning greater security for our peoples, has ushered in a new stage in which the hegemonism of that sole super-Power prevails — direct or covert interventionism under the guise of multilateral actions, insecurity for the small countries, selfishness as a behavioural pattern in international relations and the attempt to disregard the principles of equality among States, national sovereignty, self- determination, non-intervention, the non-threat or the use of force and the settlement of disputes through peaceful means — principles that have constituted the cornerstone of the United Nations. We are also living in a world characterized by the exploitation and the horrendous destitution of over l.3 billion human beings, who, while suffering on a daily basis and without giving up the hope of a better life for their children, wonder if we will still have sufficient reasons to reaffirm faith in the fundamental rights of man and in the dignity and value of the human person, as proclaimed more than five decades ago by the founders of the United Nations. The attempts at imposing by force and under pressure the so-called right of humanitarian intervention are at present the greatest threat to international peace and security. We all know that the small group of developed countries — led by the United States and its allies with powerful forces — that attempt to impose this perilous concept in the discussions and decisions of our Organization, do not have to fear the consequences of recognizing such a right in international relations. They are not, as we are, the Euro-Atlantic rim, defined by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) as the probable scene for their acts of aggression, and the new strategic doctrine of this alliance is not aimed at them, but at us, the poor countries. Actions geared at fragmenting countries and nations, at recolonizing territories and re-establishing zones of influence must cease. The recent precedent of unleashing deadly wars against defenceless populations, without even consulting the Security Council, is not only a flagrant violation of the Charter, but it is also once again dragging the world into situations like those that once took over 40 million lives in a single war. How many other wars against small, poor countries must be waged before we understand the need to respect the Charter and engage in a deep democratization process in international relations? Is it possible that those who now buttress with threatening language their attempts at interfering in the domestic affairs of other countries have fallen for the idea that the serious problems of underdevelopment, the after-effects of colonialism, hunger, disease and the consequences of the constant pillaging of the third world countries — the real cause of current conflicts — can be resolved through use of smart bombs? 19 Is it not really paradoxical that Western Powers — while developing new, ever more sophisticated killing devices — intend to prevent poor countries from using conventional light weaponry that is essential to nations that, like Cuba, live under the permanent threat of military aggression? Enough of this hypocrisy and Pharisaic behaviour. The world will be really safer if total, complete disarmament takes place, including, especially, nuclear disarmament. There has to come a day when light weaponry will be eliminated, when other types of deadlier and more dangerous conventional arms — the much more dangerous and deadlier arms owned by a handful of developed countries — must also be disposed of — the sooner the better. Yes, mines must be eliminated, but the threats of aggression against poor countries must be eliminated long before that. Will our planet, by any chance, be safer if the United States finally deploys its hallucinating, costly anti-missile defence system, through which that country's rulers deceive their own people by promising them protection against missiles when nobody knows really from where they could be launched? Why does not the United Nations, instead of tamely following the hazardous death game with the Western Powers, focus its attention on the so-much trumpeted yet unfulfilled purpose of setting aside a portion of the nearly US$ 800 billion, currently used on military expenses, to promote development and try to save the victims of the silent war that, year after year, through disease and starvation, kills more than 11 million third-world children under 5 years of age? In any case, peace will not be possible if there is no development for the over one hundred third-world countries that are presently observing, as stone guests, the irresponsible squandering of the wealthy, selfish consumer societies that insatiably eat up our children's future. Setting out to halve in 15 years the number of poor people that we now have is undoubtedly a remarkable endeavour, but how will the other half judge our goal if they are doomed to live as indigents all their lives? What has become of the right to development that was once so solemnly proclaimed by this very General Assembly? Don't you think, dear colleagues, that the time has come for us to calmly and firmly set out to rescue the issue of the right to development as a United Nations priority? Isn't it precisely now — when nobody argues anymore about the resounding failure of the neo-liberal policies that the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank imposed on third-world countries with a fundamentalist stubbornness to the benefit of transnational companies — that our peoples, united in a great alliance for the most basic rights, must seize the opportunity to demand that a more outstanding, decisive role in these affairs be played by the United Nations Economic and Social Council and this General Assembly? Why should we continue to allow international cooperation to virtually disappear, just now when it is most needed? Are we entitled to continue discussing, year after year, without any concrete outcome, the right to development, which our people are demanding, while we watch, scattered and disoriented, as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank continue to strip the Organization of the prerogatives bestowed upon it by the Charter? Those who have imposed such devastating decisions as those leading to the unbridled privatization of the national resources of third world countries and the indiscriminate liberalization of the capital account — thereby facilitating the outflow of the scarce foreign currencies from poor countries that, because of expediency or fear, have not been able to fight for the rights of their peoples — will be held to account by their children and by history. The Millennium Summit, which ended with positive results, demonstrated once again that the devastating effects of imposing a neo-liberal model in a globalized world are hitting third world countries particularly hard. The socio-economic situation of such countries — especially those in Africa — is virtually untenable. Likewise, it made it clear that unilateralism and duress have no place in a world in which solidarity and cooperation are the only possible means to achieve salvation for all. In the wake of the Summit, no doubts remain: now is the time to act, to adopt concrete measures in order to fight the poverty and underdevelopment currently afflicting the majority of the people of the world. Cuba, a poor country that nonetheless has a large store of human capital, has already started to take action. Deeds, not words, are what we need today. Two years ago, we put in place a comprehensive health-care plan under which almost 2,000 Cuban health workers are rendering services, free of charge, in 20 16 countries of Central America, the Caribbean and sub-Saharan Africa. Now, given the urgent appeal of the African countries, we would like to reiterate the offer that President Fidel Castro made to the United Nations, the World Health Organization and the developed countries during the Millennium Summit to cooperate with Africa in the fight against AIDS and other terrible diseases currently threatening to wipe out an entire continent. Cuba is ready to supply up to 3,000 additional Cuban doctors and paramedics for such an undertaking in sub-Saharan Africa. They would also contribute to the training of African health workers in the field. But it is essential for the industrialized countries to do their share and to supply the necessary medicines and materials for the programme. Africa is waiting for us. Cuba stands ready. It is now up to the developed countries. Democracy within countries is a goal that is being sought. That is certainly commendable if the diversity of cultures, identities, historical experiences, national realities and political models, and the right of each people to adopt, with complete independence, the system that it deems most appropriate, are properly respected. But is there truly any democracy in international relations at present? Unfortunately there is not. In order to attain it, let us put an end to hegemonism, foster development, replace selfishness with cooperation and, finally, respect the purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter. We must put an end, right now, to the arrogance of the few if we do not want the hopes for a world of justice and peace for all to crumble. In order to attain it, let us ensure that the United Nations truly contributes to building solidarity among nations and not to the domination of a few over the overwhelming majority. Let us face up to the attempt of some to put pressure on the United Nations through the non-payment of agreed contributions. Let us reject the use of the United Nations to impose a new colonial order. Let us demand that the Security Council act as the representative of all, not as the servant of one. Let us prevent it from arrogating to itself powers that it does not have, thereby violating the United Nations Charter and operating without due transparency while it decides upon matters of life or death. Democratizing the United Nations and its Security Council requires, as indispensable measures, the abolition of the vexing and anachronistic veto privilege; an increase in the number of Council members in proportion to the fourfold increase in the number of States Members of the Organization; the application of the principle of equitable geographical representation to the composition of that body, as with all others; and the fulfilment of its obligation, as enshrined in the Charter but ignored in practice, of reporting to the General Assembly. Let us be realistic. Security Council reform is — I will not mince words — as far away today as it ever was. We should recognize that after seven years of fruitless efforts we have managed to agree only that it is necessary to increase the number of members of the Council. At this point, therefore, we believe that we should at least work to effect a proportional increase in the total number of Council members, both permanent and non-permanent, ensuring adequate representation for third world countries, as strongly reiterated by the Millennium Summit. How could the Security Council be expanded without the inclusion of a reasonable number of permanent members from the third world? Forty years ago, on behalf of Cuba, the leader of a triumphant revolution proclaimed from this very rostrum the dreams of hope and social justice for which the Cuban people had struggled for almost a century. Most of the States now represented in this Assembly were colonies at that time. There was no talk then — as there is today — about saving Africa, while it was being ruthlessly pillaged. The time had not yet arrived when hundreds of thousands of Cubans would go to African lands to struggle for the real rights of its people, against apartheid, disease and illiteracy. That was the moment when the United States Government set out to overthrow the Cuban revolution, which, committed to social justice and true independence for its people, threatened, through its ethics, its morality and its example, the secular domination that the United States had exercised over the entire western hemisphere. That was the moment when the economic, trade and financial blockade was implemented against Cuba — a blockade that, in the course of a harsh 40-year-old economic war, has engendered such shameful pieces of legislation as the Torricelli and Helms-Burton Acts. It has to do with the blockade that this very General Assembly has rejected for eight consecutive years and which is still in force despite worldwide rejection and the obvious disapproval of the people of the United States. 21 In these four decades, our people have resisted acts ranging from political pressures and attempts at diplomatic isolation to the most insidious lying campaigns, from subversion and terrorism to assassination attempts on its main leaders, from biological warfare to the most ruthless blockade and economic war and from the promotion of armed bands to military invasion and the threat of nuclear extermination. Today, on behalf of that same generous and courageous people, we can once again say to our third world brothers and to all those who anywhere in the world defend our right to life and development that revolutionary socialist Cuba will never cease to struggle for everyone's dreams. ﻿The General Assembly has unanimously chosen you, Sir, to guide our debates. This is a tribute both to your qualities as a diplomat and statesman and to your country, Finland, for the very positive role it plays in addressing the great issues of our modern world. Senegal is happy to convey to you, through me, its congratulations and hopes for success in leading this session. You were preceded in this office by His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of our sister Republic of Namibia, who presided in the name of our continent, Africa. He guided our debates successfully throughout his mandate, which was full of important events for our Organization. I would like at the same time to pay tribute to the work of our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has devoted himself and all his energy to our Organization, in an increasingly complex world. Let us pay him the tribute he richly deserves for the success of the Millennium Summit, which proved to the world that Mr. Kofi Annan has achieved what he set out to do, i.e. to restore the dignity and prestige of the Organization as the indispensable forum for concertation and concord, and as a peacemaker and promoter of progress for all. I would also like, finally, to welcome the delegation of Tuvalu, which has become the 189th Member State. History will recall that, in the framework of the Millennium Assembly, the Millennium Summit gathered in this venerable Hall our illustrious heads of State and Government, who examined the role our Organization is being called upon to play in the twenty- first century. These eminent dignitaries thereby gave us a new vision of how to take up the great challenge posed by globalization by promoting a new human international order. The first half of the year 2000 was also an intense time for the United Nations and the international community, what with the holding in June of two major special sessions of the General Assembly. These two special sessions following up on and reviewing the Fourth World Conference on Women, which was held in Beijing, and the World Summit on Social Development, held in Copenhagen produced encouraging results. My delegation cherishes the hope that these sessions will contribute to strengthening the status and role of women in our respective societies by promoting gender equality, the eradication both of poverty and of its feminization, and the promotion of productive employment and social integration. If we do not fully respect women and recognize their essential contribution to the progress of our societies, our world is going continue walking on one leg, when obviously there are two. Despite these new perspectives and their historical importance, this session is not without causes for grave concern and even despair. Despite our ongoing efforts, a number of conflicts are persisting and deepening. From Sierra Leone to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, from Angola to the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea, from Burundi to Somalia, from Kosovo to East Timor we hear the echoes and see the images and the horror of conflict zones. Senegal would like to here voice its great concern at what is occurring between Guinea and Liberia. Our country calls upon these two countries to carry out a brotherly, peaceful dialogue in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). We make the same urgent request of the political leaders of CÙte d'Ivoire, urging them to find a political compromise that will enable the great country, CÙte d'Ivoire, which we love so well, to live in peace, stability and unity. It is in view of such situations that regional organizations, aware of the fact that Africa is paying a high price for all these conflicts, have resolutely undertaken to seek political solutions, with the help of the international community. This is what occurred in 9 Sierra Leone, where the LomÈ Agreement, reached under the aegis of the Economic Community of West African States, allowed us to nourish hopes for a lasting solution. The same can be said for Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the two Lusaka agreements of 1994 and 1999, respectively. Unfortunately, these praiseworthy efforts often run up against a lack of commitment on the part of rebel movements or armed factions to the very agreements that they themselves have signed. However, in spite of this bleak situation, we should not give in to discouragement. As the constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization says, `since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed'. We have a moral obligation to continue to act with determination and perseverance, bringing the protagonists of these conflicts to recognize and embrace a culture of peace that will allow people to progress, committing themselves to forgiveness and reconciliation. It is in this context that my delegation congratulates the members of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations for its recent report. The subtlety of the analyses and the relevance of the recommendations contained therein open new perspectives for the United Nations in terms of reducing tensions and wisely managing conflicts. Senegal attaches great importance to the consideration of the Panel's recommendations, so that a new peacekeeping doctrine can be established. Experience has shown us that the language of weapons, as well as feeding conflicts by illicitly exploiting natural resources, cannot produce humanly acceptable solutions. The only possible solution is one that allows peoples to fully enjoy conditions of peace and economic and social security. It is in this context that the Constitutive Act of the African Union was signed on 12 July at LomÈ, at the thirty-sixth session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), committing Africa to resolutely engage in a spirit of unity in finding African solutions to its many challenges. This is why the President of the Republic, MaÓtre Abdoulaye Wade, a convinced Pan- Africanist, led to its completion the procedure making Senegal the second African country to ratify this historic Act. Before LomÈ, Africa had already taken another meaningful decision, at the Algiers summit, by proclaiming 2000 the year of peace and concord on the continent. The advent of democracy in Guinea-Bissau and the efforts to bring about a gradual return to normality in the life of its citizens and institutions are part of the response to the demand for democracy. Is not the recent peaceful political transition in my country, which brought MaÓtre Abdoulaye Wade to the highest executive position, further proof that our peoples can choose their leaders in a sovereign and democratic fashion? I now turn to the Middle East, where my country has noted the major breakthroughs this year in the Israeli-Arab conflict, at the heart of which is the question of Palestine. The evacuation of Lebanese territory by the Israeli occupation troops and the long and delicate negotiations at Camp David between Palestinians and Israelis give rise to hope, despite the talks' relative failure. Our hopes include that of seeing the creation of a space of lasting cohabitation between Israelis and Palestinians, as well as between Israel and its Arab neighbours, with respect for the dignity and rights of the peoples and States of the region. It is only right to pay tribute to all the participants in this positive development, in particular the Palestinian and Israeli leadership, who, thanks to their political courage and sense of history have opened this avenue towards a new dawn of peace in the Middle East. Senegal reiterates its constant support for President Yasser Arafat and its admiration for his courage and political lucidity. He has never dropped the olive branch to which he referred here in 1974. Our congratulations also go to President Clinton. We express our support for the Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Barak, as well as the other actors in the peace process, whom we commend for their determined efforts in search of peace and reconciliation between all the peoples of the region. We hope that their efforts will soon be crowned with positive results. The year 2000 was also marked by a relaxation of major importance in relations between the two Koreas. This highly significant political development will contribute to consolidating peace and security on the 10 Korean peninsula and in the entire subregion of South- East Asia. The United Nations, universal symbol of the peoples' aspirations to peace and security, should make a significant contribution to protecting the ongoing process between the two Koreas. It is in the name of rapprochement between peoples and the principle of universality that my country supports the request of the Republic of China on Taiwan to rejoin the concert of free nations within the United Nations and its specialized agencies, and thus to participate in the consolidation of international peace and security. With the completion last June of the definition of what constitutes crimes, and of the rules of procedure and testimony, the Preparatory Committee for the International Criminal Court passed a significant milestone in the establishment of this important legal institution. This progress and the new ratifications of the Rome Statute, are encouraging signs of the international community's rejection of criminal faits accomplis, injustice and impunity. I repeat Senegal's support for the process, which should bring about a credible, independent and efficient International Criminal Court. Building and consolidating peace also, and above all, means to meeting the chronic challenge of underdevelopment, for, as we know, development is another name for peace. Twenty years ago the North- South Commission on development problems strongly emphasized that where hunger reigns there cannot be peace, and that whoever wants to banish war must also banish poverty. Yet today, despite that warning, poverty persists and grows, although we have the means to fight it. We dare to hope that next year's high-level meeting on financing development will be a unique opportunity to examine in depth the causes of the decline in official development assistance and will find ways and means to redress this worrying situation: the urgent need to deal with the debt crisis, rebalance international trade and deal with the risks of marginalization resulting from globalization. I recall President Wade's appeal, warmly received by his peers, for an in-depth analysis of the African debt and for a world summit on globalization to correct its injustices and contradictions. I would also like to reiterate Senegal's support for cooperation frameworks such as the EU-ACP agreements and the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD). We hope that recent decisions made at the G-8 Summit in Okinawa, as well as the American initiative, `African Growth and Opportunity Act', will be the starting point of a new partnership based on solidarity and mutual benefits. Development is inseparable from the promotion and protection of human rights, the rule of law and sound governance, principles to which my country remains firmly attached. By creating a human rights unit attached to the presidency of the Republic, the Head of State has shown his personal commitment to the protection and promoting of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms by the Administration and at every level of public life. Senegal will continue to make every effort to consolidate the foundations of the rule of law, to protect human rights defenders and to honour the obligations it assumes by its adherence to international legal instruments on human rights. With the momentum created by the success in Senegal of the peaceful change-over of political power and a peaceful transition, my country feels equipped to continue to defend the image of a serene Africa, a mature Africa, a tolerant and democratic Africa. Today, more than ever, our people wonder about the political will and capacity of our States to take advantage of the current international climate, which seems propitious for a dynamic of peace and for taking into account the human dimension in technological innovations. In Africa our thoughts often turn to the anguish caused by the ravages of HIV/AIDS, although with a l.6 per cent rate, Senegal strengthens the hope that this scourge will be defeated. Fifty years ago, at the end of the planetary nightmare of the Second World War, a hope and conviction were born: that men and women throughout the world would do everything possible to prevent new wars from breaking out and would work together to ensure respect for the right of each individual to freedom, justice and progress. Today the intellectual and material resources available to humanity should logically be increasingly dedicated to building a future of peace, progress and shared happiness. But it must be said that for the great majority of peoples and nations the international situation does not meet their aspirations to peace and progress. In the final analysis, to build a pan-human society which is at peace with itself we must unite all our energies to create the basis for more human development with greater solidarity, bringing new hope to future generations. This is the importance and meaning of the Millennium Summit, in urging us to make a collective contribution to strengthening our Organization for the salvation of humanity. As it has become a tradition in my country, I will leave the last word of my statement to the inimitable Senegal-Cameroon poet of love and hope, David Mandesijop, who said: `Hope lived in us as in a citadel.' I hope the aspiration to a more just and happy world will live within us all as an impregnable citadel so, as Mandesijop said, that spring will grow beneath our footsteps.I express my sincere congratulations to the President on his election. I am certain his qualities and skills will bring a successful conclusion to the fifty-fifth session. May I also extend congratulations to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, his predecessor, on what he achieved. Finally, I endorse the European Union's priorities paper, which was developed by Hubert Vedrine, the President of the Council of the European Union. Some believe that violence might be an intrinsic part of humanity. But so are humanity's relentless efforts to rule out violence, regulate antagonism, peacefully resolve confrontational situations and prevent hatred and prejudice. Whether we come together to understand each other or to debate each other, our goal has always been to better our lives and build a more secure future. Since ancient times, we have attempted to establish norms of peaceful coexistence. In this effort, we have built traditions and religions, as well as political structures. Through these norms we have tried to battle a fate seemingly dictated by force, poverty, oppression, prejudice, chronic and communicable diseases, inequality and a withering environment. Throughout history, our efforts have taken various forms. But they have all commenced with a unique first step: the overriding principle that, in order to solve our problems, we need to work together. This month is being marked by two events that will bring the peoples of our world much closer: the Millennium Assembly and the Olympic Games. At the dawn of the twenty-first century, nations will meet, compete, clash, differ and disagree. Yet our world has never looked more united or more determined to tackle its problems as one, indivisible community. In the current environment, our efforts to build a better world for our children can and ought to be pan- cosmic. We can all contribute to a future that inspires our children and inspires the will to grow and to create. As the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has very wisely said, “We face global challenges which oblige us to work together. If that is true in the economic and social sphere, it applies even more to the challenge of massacre and war”. These words command even more authority coming from a man whose political skill, moral authority and devotion have contributed, in numerous cases, to the resolution of conflicting issues. When a child misses its childhood and its education because it is in a dark prison cell, when a child is maimed from the explosion of a mine or when a child dies of hunger, of AIDS or in war, we do not witness just a tragic event. We do not witness only the sad state of some distant community. In today's world, when we see a child die, we lose another ray of hope that our global community will come together as one, that we shall live in peace and that we will finally tackle the challenges we all face together. In Greece, we have become deeply conscious of this reality. What goes on in our neighbourhood directly affects the way in which our children will grow and develop. So we have made a commitment to our world and, more specifically, to our region, and it is this commitment that I have come to share with the Assembly today. The two global events of this September — this Assembly and the Olympic Games — symbolize the beginning of an era for my country. After this ministerial week of the General Assembly, Greece will raise the Olympic flag in Sydney. For the second time in almost a century, the international community will bestow upon Athens the responsibility of the Olympiad. Over the next four years, Athens has committed itself to run both an athletic and a cultural Olympiad. Today, I commit our county to an Olympiad for peace: four years of the most relentless efforts and a commitment to the international community to fight against the evils that have kept our community of nations at war, under totalitarianism and under oppression. I pledge today that when the Olympic flame of our ancestors rises over the Athenian sky, it will light up more than a shiny stadium. It will light up a whole area of fighting for peace, democracy and justice. The next four years — the years that coincide with this Greek Olympiad — will set of the stage upon which 33 the future event will unfold. The globalization of the economy, the increased power of the media and rapid developments in information technology, communications and biotechnology are just some of these new challenges. Globalization, while creating incredible wealth for many, fosters conditions for conflict and poverty. The new economy cannot be dominated by interests, and must be monitored to promote both democracy and human security. For the next four years, Greece will take an active role in international forums to do its part in dealing with this problem of globalization. That is why Greece has also enthusiastically accepted an invitation to join the Human Security Network. Human rights laws alone cannot provide for human rights; they must be strengthened by civic responsibility and democratic institutions. We need to create structures that will reach beyond the democratic deficits of the global community. We need to create regional cooperation, build civic structures and community services and work with non-governmental organizations. We need to educate our citizens and our societies in making this process their own and allow their voice to be heard. This, in our view, is the role of the United Nations. This honourable Organization can and must bridge the gap between the global challenges we face and the democratic deficits that exist in our global culture. We believe that now is the time to turn the United Nations from an Organization working to globalize democracy into an Organization that is also able to democratize the process of globalization. The Millennium Summit agenda is proof that the international community shares these views. Initiatives taken within the United Nations can make our world a better place. Let me use a single but powerful example. On 7 September, nations were invited to sign and ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflicts. Whatever the causes of modern-day brutality towards children, the time has come to call for a halt — to call for a truce. The most fundamental principle is that children should have no part in war. This is only one of the initiatives that Greece will actively support in the international arena in the coming years. At the same time, our view of the purpose of international organizations comes from the rich experience we have amassed in our region. Starting with the war in Kosovo, my country has been deeply involved in the events unfolding in the area. We believe that the lessons of this involvement can greatly contribute to the work of these organizations. We are eager to share our experience with the international community. We believe that stability in our region is a prerequisite for Greek security, and we define stability to mean the practice of democracy, the strengthening of institutions that provide transparency and accountability, the reduction of economic inequalities and the rule of law in our societies and between our countries. Our security lies in being a member of the European Union and of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and we work so that countries in the region may benefit from the stabilizing influence of their future membership in these institutions. During the Kosovo war, my colleagues in neighbouring countries and I decided to cooperate closely to alleviate human suffering and avoid further instability in our region. We grew to understand that our fates were intrinsically linked. As a result, we were compelled to discover ways to increase our cooperation and effectiveness in dealing with our problems. We would otherwise have been condemned to constant strife, conflict and isolation in the world. In the next four years, Greece will build upon this base. We are determined to transform the plight of a war and its brutal memories into an opportunity for generations to come. Through this process, I hope that Greece has managed to inspire in the international community the importance of a consistent, universal and unifying policy towards South-Eastern Europe. From Bosnia to Cyprus, we have the same objectives: we want the countries in the region to be integral, peaceful and democratic; we want them to remain multicultural; and we want them to join the European Union. Yugoslavia, too, is an essential part of this political framework. We strongly desire to see the return of Yugoslavia to Europe. I would like to endorse my Romanian colleague's call to rethink our policy on sanctions, which often do more to serve purposes contrary to those for which we are striving. 34 That is our message. Even though it is simple sounding, our message is a radical break from the past, when favouritism, cold-war intricacies and double standards consistently broke the spirit of the people in the region. Now is the time to put an end to that. We must stop redrawing borders around ethnically homogeneous communities while compelling them to seek the favours of greater Powers. In the next four years, we will commit Greece to an effort to transform the multitude of races, religions and ethnicities in the region into an instrument of solidarity and stability — a beautiful kaleidoscope of creative, multicultural cooperation. Greece's vision for the Balkans is one of a region in which democracy finally becomes the norm; where citizens' aspirations can finally be realized through peaceful and democratic practices; where the rights of minorities are respected; and where Governments are accountable, economies are transparent and politics allow for the fullest participation of all elements of society. The world has a responsibility in supporting this vision for our region. We need to empower the region, which has historically been handicapped, dependent and divided by a world community of competing interests and a babble of conflicting signals. This balkanization of the region must be replaced by coordination of international efforts. This is why we have actively supported and promoted this new vision within the international community. Last year our efforts helped more than 40 countries develop a unique contract between the international community and south-eastern Europe. The contract was coined the Stability Pact. We have a clear sense of how the Stability Pact can achieve its goals and it is an optimistic sign that the European Union, the United States and Russia cooperate closely within its framework. Regional integration can also be achieved as the Stability Pact promotes investment in infrastructure projects. Education is a primary goal and a strategy for democratic leadership and institution- building, which will stimulate economic growth and will bring us together. The pact actively promotes respect for the rule law among States and peoples in the region. Our stand in international organizations and our agenda for the next four years is coloured also by our recent experience with Turkey. The earthquakes that shook Greece and Turkey a year ago created a new climate for the first time in our recent history. Tragedy generated a genuine feeling of human warmth. Spontaneous and dramatic acts of fraternity and solidarity were expressed. Our mandate was clear. Our peoples desire to live in peace together. Since the earthquakes, Greeks and Turks are using every opportunity to explore their newly found neighbours, and to come together, meet, exchange experiences and make up for lost time. On a bilateral level we have signed 10 agreements that will radically change the environment in which we interact; in one year, 10 agreements. We do not view these developments as a momentary result of what was lately coined as seismic diplomacy. We view them as the beginning of a long process that will radically affect our lives in the coming years. We have opened a dialogue; one that is honest. And although we may differ and do differ on many issues, such as how we see Cyprus or how we approach our bilateral relations, this open approach can only lead to a progressive resolution of our problems. When I speak today I know that those of the Turkish side will not or may not agree on many issues. But they know we are honest. We are honest in what we say and in our desire for a new and peaceful relation. I believe that Greece and Turkey have no choice but to explore new avenues for cooperation. I believe our mutual interests can outweigh our political differences. We can and must resolve these differences through peaceful means; peaceful means of that of the International Court of Justice. The European Union's decision to upgrade Turkey's status to that of a candidate country in Helsinki in December marked an historic turning point in Greek-Turkish relations. Helsinki does not signal the end of Greece's efforts; it represents the beginning of a new and equally courageous Greek initiative. In this context, we are ready also to further discuss confidence-building measures between Greece and Turkey. I do not want to give the false impression that all our problems have suddenly been resolved. It is also most distressing that a variety of statements and acts still undermine this genuine and difficult effort, and there are those who certainly may wish that our efforts will fail. It is our historical duty to overcome these 35 difficulties and maintain the momentum in response to our peoples' mandate for peace. I would like to thank the Secretary-General and all those who labour with him towards a just solution in Cyprus: a solution based on United Nations resolutions for a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation in one international personality, one citizenship and one sovereignty. At this time, I would appeal to him to move forward with the peace talks on this basis. The implementation of United Nations resolutions is not only important for Cyprus. It is important for the moral standing of this all-important Organization. Double standards and inaction only serve to undermine the credibility of this Organization in the eyes of so many countries and peoples. One cannot accept developments such as those that recently took place in Strovilia. This responsibility rests with the United Nations, with the guarantor powers and all those who have a say in international developments. It has become obvious that the current situation in Cyprus and its occupation by foreign forces challenges the integrity and credibility of this honourable Organization. I know this term may be painful, but Cyprus is an occupied island, and this must end. We need to go beyond the situation and it will take courage; courage from all involved. A solution to the Cyprus problem can and should be seen as a win-win situation. It is vital for peace, stability and security in our region. I truly believe that the Greek-Cypriot and the Turkish-Cypriot communities can find solutions, and we must allow them to live together peacefully. We can aid them in this process. Greece and Turkey can aid them. Cyprus will either unite us or divide us, Greece and Turkey. We have a responsibility to cooperate on Cyprus and to facilitate the solution to this process. Greece and Turkey, through their rapprochement, share a rare opportunity to help the citizens of Cyprus rebuild their island, their homes and their dreams. The outcome of these efforts should be that every Cypriot enjoys safety, equality under the law, protection of their human rights, appropriate representation and security under a European roof. Cyprus, Turkey and Greece: for anyone willing to envision the future, our futures are as interwoven as our histories. A reunified federal Cyprus, member of the European Union, will not only serve the European aspiration for stability in the region, but the aspirations of every citizen in every one of the countries involved. I extend my appeal to the Turkish Cypriots. We want them near us, in our wider European family. In this family we do not only guarantee them the solidarity of the Greek people, but also the commitment of the Greek Government. Our citizens will only master the great possibilities that lie ahead if this last wall in Cyprus comes tumbling down. Our experience in our region, our rapprochement with Turkey and our consistent efforts for a just solution in Cyprus have given Greece a new voice in the international community. We treasure our new capacity and intend to grow it further. During our Olympiad for Peace we plan to keep a close eye on developments in the Middle East, always seeking methods to facilitate the hopeful process. We shall follow closely developments in the South and particularly in Africa, a continent for which the Greek people share a special place in their hearts. Our emphasis will be on children: their rights, their right to avoid a violent life. Our concentration in our Olympiad for Peace will be on international initiatives in which our country can play a role. Drawing on our ancient traditions, we are working to re-establish the practice of Olympic Truce. We aspire to the day when the tradition of suspending all hostilities during the Olympic Games becomes the seed for a more lasting peace. Huge amounts of resources are wasted on military procurements and war, and they must be channelled into health, education, culture and sport. To this end and in close cooperation with the International Olympic Committee and President Samaranch, we have established the International Centre for Olympic Truce in Greece. In both ancient and modern Greek, the word for truce is ekecheiria. It has a dual meaning. It means setting one's weapons aside, but it also means reaching out one's hand in friendship. We do not simply aspire to a momentary truce, but to a continuous truce, an active truce. The concept of Olympic Truce can complement the work of national and international organizations specializing in conflict prevention and resolution and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations sharing similar objectives. The Centre in Olympia will offer a sanctuary to support peace-building. This year we hosted children from war-torn areas in the Balkans. 36 Truce in Bosnia in 1992 allowed for children to be inoculated. Truce in Sidney this year will allow for North and South Korean teams to march under the same flags: an historic moment. I started my address by saying that people coming together has always been the prerequisite for building a better world and a more secure future. I conclude by appeal to members. Take this ancient tradition, which by now is no longer exclusively Greek. It has become universal. Use this tool to complement efforts and inspire the younger generation for peace and cooperation, going beyond ethnic, racial, religious or other divisions. This is the objective of the Olympic Truce. And this is the foundation upon which Greece shall build its four-year Olympiad for Peace. I join other speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. I am confident that with your vast experience and diplomatic skills you will be able to guide the proceedings of this Assembly to a successful conclusion. I would also like to express my delegation's gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the effective manner in which he guided the work of the last session of the General Assembly. Let me also take this opportunity to commend the Secretary-General for his great dedication to the Organization and the many contributions he has made in the service of the international community. There are great expectations on the part of the international community that in the new century the United Nations will be a more effective Organization. Indeed, its continued relevance, especially to the developing countries, which comprise the majority of the membership of the United Nations, will, to a large degree, depend on their perception that it is attuned to their concerns and responsive to their needs. The Organization must continue to serve the interests of all its Members, big or small, strong or weak. It must be more transparent and democratic in its decision-making processes and work methods. In this context, the reform and restructuring of the Organization continues to be a matter of great importance. Much has been done through the process of reform effected by the Secretary-General, but reform is a continuous and ongoing process and should continue to be vigorously pursued to ensure the United Nations increased effectiveness and efficiency, especially in facing up to the challenges of the new century. As modernization of the Organization entails additional resources, the critical issue of financing the United Nations must also be seriously addressed and resolved as soon as possible. More intensified efforts should be made to bring to conclusion the deliberations on one of the most important aspects of the reform process: the restructuring of the Security Council. Clearly, the necessary compromises must be made if the ongoing deliberations on the reform of the Council are to make any progress at all. We look forward to your leadership, Mr. President, in unblocking the current impasse so that this important organ of the United Nations can be fully revamped, modernized and made more effective. Malaysia continues to support expansion of the Council in both categories of its membership. Any expansion in the permanent category should include both the industrialized and the developing countries. If there is 7 no agreement on expansion of the permanent membership, the Council should be enlarged for the time being in the non-permanent category. A central objective of reform of the Security Council should be to ensure its effectiveness in the maintenance of international peace and security. Equally important is the need to enhance the Council's unity of purpose among its members, especially the permanent members, so as to avoid the situation that necessitated the taking of international action outside the Council by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), as in the case of Kosovo, when the Council was unable to act. Notwithstanding the special circumstances of Kosovo, future international interventions should be made only with the express approval of the Security Council, in the interest of preserving the role and authority of the Council as enshrined in the Charter, as well as of ensuring the legality and legitimacy of all such actions. Another aspect of the work of the Security Council that should be thoroughly reviewed relates to the imposition of sanctions on Member States, which have often brought untold suffering on the general populace, particularly women and children. Sanction regimes of the future should be established only when absolutely necessary and should be specifically targeted, time-bound, subject to regular review and lifted when no longer necessary. The interests of all parties to the conflict should be addressed in order to achieve a just and lasting peace. We have seen too many conflicts that seem to be resolved on paper but continue to remain outstanding on the ground. We should strive in the new century to make our world a safer place. We should strive to get rid of weapons of mass destruction — particularly nuclear weapons, but also chemical and biological weapons. We must intensify global efforts to reduce existing stocks of these horrendous weapons, culminating in their total elimination. The major Powers and others that possess and manufacture these weapons bear a special responsibility. We should all play our part in ensuring that there is no let-up in the global efforts towards nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. We should also limit the production and deployment of ultra-sophisticated, high technology conventional weapons, many of which are being used in the wars of developing countries, resulting in the ironic situation of third world countries fighting their wars with first world weapons, thanks to the aggressive marketing efforts of arms vendors of the developed countries. The developing countries can ill afford the arms race that this will trigger, nor the huge defence expenditures to sustain the use of these weapons. We must ensure that genocide, “ethnic cleansing” and other crimes against humanity that were perpetrated, for instance, in Rwanda, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, are never allowed to be committed again anywhere else in the world. More strenuous efforts should be made to apprehend indicted war criminals so as to send a stern warning to others. They should not be allowed to get away with their heinous crimes with impunity. Undoubtedly, the maintenance of international peace and security can be better served through more effective use of preventive diplomacy. This has been highlighted by the Secretary-General in his Millennium Report (A/54/2000) and should be seriously considered. The Organization will have to develop a more effective early-warning capability and deal with emerging conflict situations through more effective use of the mechanism of preventive diplomacy. A more proactive approach in preventive diplomacy would require even closer coordination and collaboration between the Security Council and the Secretary- General, who would have to put his good offices role to even greater use. However, that should not become an excuse to impose anything on Member States or to interfere in their internal affairs. There are growing tendencies for the developed countries, in the name of civil society, democracy and human rights, to set standards in accordance with their own moulds for the developing countries to follow. We even ignore the fact that many of the problems confronting the developing countries are the vestiges of the colonial past. We want to leave yesterday behind and move to today and the future, but the pace appropriate to the particular country concerned should be followed. United Nations peacekeeping operations should be empowered with clear and well-defined mandates, adequate resources and strong international support, irrespective of where they take place. There should be no perception of selectivity in their launching. In this regard, it is especially important that peacekeeping operations in Africa — notably in Sierra Leone, the 8 Democratic Republic of the Congo and Ethiopia and Eritrea — be strongly supported by the international community. At the same time, for peace to be viable it is essential that peacekeeping missions incorporate the necessary elements of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, with the necessary support of the international community. My delegation commends the frank and forthright report (A/55/305) of the Brahimi Panel on United Nations Peace Operations. The Panel's bold recommendations deserve the detailed and careful consideration of the membership of the Organization. Thereafter, we must demonstrate the urgency, seriousness and political will to follow up on those laudable recommendations, lest the Panel's report meet the fate of many United Nations reports in the past for lack of the necessary political will. On another conflict situation, it is a matter of great concern to Malaysia that one of the longest- running conflicts of this century, the Arab-Israeli conflict, remains unresolved. Successive opportunities were not grasped due to the lack of seriousness on the part of the Israeli Government to pursue the path of peace. We are disappointed that the Israeli Government fails to live up to the expectations of the international community and lacks the boldness of vision, as well as the will and courage, to grasp the once-in-a-lifetime window of opportunity to seal a lasting peace between Israel and Palestine and Syria in the interest of regional peace and security. The aspirations of the Palestinian people for an independent and sovereign homeland can no longer be denied. We look forward to welcoming in the very near future an independent State of Palestine among the community of nations here at the United Nations, as well as in other international organizations. Equally, we look forward to the return of Syrian Golan without further delay. Israel must bury the suspicion and distrust of the past and look to the future in an environment that will create opportunities and challenges in a peaceful and stable Middle East. Since the East Asian financial crisis there has been increasing recognition of the nature of the problem of, and the need for reform of, the existing global financial and economic systems, which Malaysia has strongly advocated. It is my hope that efforts in that direction will continue to be pursued by the Bretton Woods institutions, even if the worst for the affected Asian economies may now be over and those countries are now recovering. It is dismaying that some quarters are suggesting that, with the end of the crisis, there is now no urgency or even necessity for reform. Given the universality of its membership, the United Nations is well placed to make an important contribution to promoting the reform process, particularly in the context of its own increasing dialogue and interaction with those institutions. It would be the height of folly and irresponsibility to wait for another round of speculative currency attacks to jolt us into action. East Asia's traumatic experience is also a strong reminder of the negative effects of globalization on developing countries. While globalization is inevitable and is becoming a permanent feature of the new international order and system, it is far from being a panacea. Indeed, the United Nations Human Development Report indicates that globalization has led to the marginalization of many developing countries, resulting in an increasing disparity in economic attainment between nations. This conclusion is not surprising, given the existing inequitable international economic order and the differing access to technology. With all its potential benefits, globalization in its unfettered form is likely to do more harm than good to the small, vulnerable economies, at least in the short and medium terms, unless measures are put in place to protect them. It will bring about not free trade, but an unfair and inequitable exchange: the inflow of capital, goods and services from the developed North in return for the outflow of hard-earned foreign exchange from the poor countries of the South. The notion of a level playing field, which is the central creed of globalization, would perpetuate the present inequities in favour of the strong, developed economies at the expense of the vulnerable economies of the developing world. It would only ensure the continued domination of the weak by the strong. For globalization to be universally embraced without reservation there must be in place certain ground rules to regulate the conduct of free trade in goods and services to ensure an equitable exchange between unequal partners predicated on a win-win proposition. At the same time, the principle of transparency should be applied across the board to include currency traders and market manipulators, who are now somehow exempted from such a requirement, 9 as well as from payment of taxes. Until and unless these measures are instituted, globalization will be seen by the developing world as a largely predatory ideology of the rich nations for the exploitation and subjugation of poor ones. That impression is further reinforced by the intolerance of dissenting of some of its promoters views in their zeal to prescribe the one-size-fits-all approach towards globalization. The developing countries should be allowed to pursue globalization at their own pace so as to enable them to develop social and institutional structures to fully benefit from the process while minimizing its negative impact. For many countries, the price to be paid for globalization as presently interpreted, particularly the loss of independence, would be simply too great for them to bear. This is not the time for us to re-examine the concept of the nation State and the sovereignty of nations in order to accommodate the needs of the giant multinational companies that operate across borders. In the meantime, in order to brace themselves for the full impact of globalization, developing countries must forge enhanced cooperation among themselves in a true spirit of South-South cooperation and on the basis of mutually beneficial “smart partnerships” with the involvement of the private sector. This would facilitate a useful exchange of ideas and experience among them on the globalization process. Malaysia is pleased to share those ideas and experiences with its partners from the developing countries, and has done so in the past several years in the context of the Langkawi international dialogue. We are pleased to see that those dialogues have been emulated by Africa through the South African international dialogue. Indeed, in an increasingly complex future world it is only appropriate for the developing countries to develop such synergies through strategic linkages among themselves as well as with the developed countries. To assist in the process of globalization, it is incumbent upon the international community to ensure that the developing countries, particularly the least developed among them, continue to receive development assistance to enable them to make the leap out of chronic poverty. Indeed, given the intrinsic link between peace, security and development, the Organization must continue to be in the vanguard of global developmental efforts, upon which so much of the world depends. It is imperative for the United Nations to carry out its developmental mission with even greater vigour at a time of increasingly scarce resources and exploding populations. This is where the continued role of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) can be especially critical, with additional resources and more effective programmes, particularly for vulnerable small island and landlocked States and States in Africa, where in a number of cases economic performance has fallen back rather than progressed since independence. Notable gains have been made in several African countries. However, Africa's ability to rise out of chronic poverty can be attained only with continued international assistance, including forgiveness of its countries' external debt, without which many of them will remain trapped in the vicious circle of poverty, violence and natural or man-made disasters. In this regard, Malaysia reiterates its strong support for, and looks forward to, the convening of an international conference on financing for development in the year 2001 involving all major stakeholders, including the private sector. The convening of such a forum is imperative, as there can be no development without the necessary financing to support it. Along with the Millennium Summit, this session of the General Assembly will be remembered for, among other things, paving the way for the kind of United Nations that will eventually emerge to serve the international community, at least in the early decades of the twenty-first century. While the shifting patterns of relationships among nations have yet to find a final form and the future is far from clear, there is no denying that in the increasingly complex and interconnected world of tomorrow, the United Nations is likely to play an increasingly critical role. To that end the Organization must continuously place itself at the forefront in the search for solutions to global problems.Allow me at the outset, Sir, to express my delegation's satisfaction at seeing you preside over the work of the General Assembly at this fifty-fifth session. You may count on my delegation's support. I should also like to pay an unqualified tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the quality of the work accomplished during his term of office, and to commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan, a great African of whom we are all proud, for his commitment to strengthening the universal role and the credibility of our Organization. The United Nations family is growing day by day, for which we all rejoice. That is why my delegation welcomes the Republic of Tuvalu. Before addressing the situation prevailing in my country, I wish to share some of our concerns about the international situation. The challenges of the third millennium are not new. They have been broadly outlined by the Secretary-General in his report, entitled “We the peoples: the role of the United Nations in the twenty- first century”. For the delegation of Côte d'Ivoire, given the difficulties facing the international community, the issue is above all the need to draw up new solutions in adhering to carefully established priorities. As the Secretary-General stresses in his millennium report, “the 1 billion people living in developed countries earn 60 per cent of the world's income, while the 3.5 billion people in low-income countries earn less than 20 per cent”. (A/54/2000, para. 69) Furthermore, the technological progress that has been achieved in computer science and communications, which we welcome, has unfortunately also created a digital gap that has further marginalized the poor countries. If, for the time being, we acknowledge the advantages of globalization, it does seem to us that it is not taking sufficient account of the concerns of developing countries, particularly those in Africa. In fact, the rate of Africa's participation in international 27 trade is still below two per cent. In sub-Saharan Africa, particularly, the degree of poverty is almost the same as it was 20 years ago. This is why we would earnestly appeal for Africa's integration and involvement in those efforts to build a new architecture of the world economy. Poverty and deprivation, which are the daily lot of peoples in the developing countries, are further exacerbated by the debt burden on their economies. In the particular case of my country, I would like to emphasize that, even under the current difficult circumstances, my Government continues to allocate 52 per cent of its budgetary earnings to paying off its external debt, and, quite naturally, this is to the detriment of the priority programmes relating to health, education and food self-sufficiency. Adding to this, we must not overlook inflation and speculation, which lead to fluctuations in our commodity prices. In addition to our main preoccupation, which is combating poverty, Côte d'Ivoire believes that to resolve conflicts, preventive diplomacy must be strengthened and seen as a complementary dimension to peacekeeping operations in the field. The conflicts that beset the world have meant that peacekeeping operations, which have become more and more complex, are now in the forefront of United Nations activities. Preparing for, organizing, setting up in the field and financing these operations requires considerable effort and considerable means. Those conducted in recent years throughout the world, particularly in Africa, have unfortunately not had the results we had hoped for. The experience of the “Blue Helmets” in Sierra Leone is illustrative of this. We hope that the excellent report of Ambassador Brahimi, who has put forward new guidelines for United Nations peacekeeping operations in the twenty- first century, will be given the attention by States Members that they deserve, so that acting on these recommendations will endow our Organization with the means it needs to play the role which it should in preserving international peace and security. We very much welcome the conclusions of Beijing Plus Five and the commitments which have been entered into in order to bring about the advancement of women. We are convinced that these commitments will make it possible for women to fully exercise all their rights and to finally achieve full and complete equality. Côte d'Ivoire, which was actively involved in the work of this important meeting, commits itself, for its part, to working for the implementation of the targets set. May I, at this juncture in my statement, refer to the question of the much-needed structural reform of the United Nations, particularly that of the Security Council. In these new circumstances, Côte d'Ivoire would like to reaffirm the position held by the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which is claiming two permanent seats and two new non- permanent seats in the Council. To return to matters in Côte d'Ivoire, and the situation prevailing there, I would like to recall that on 24 December 1999, my country underwent its first experience of an institutional change taking place apart from the balloting boxes. In fact, on the day before that, a military mutiny, on the part of soldiers who were claiming better living conditions, resulted in the toppling of the existing constitutional order. This unexpected speeding up of events in my country aroused, and continues to arouse, major concern within the international community, a concern and an anxiety which points to the interest that the international community attaches to my country. Up until now, Côte d'Ivoire, considered as a haven of peace and an oasis of stability, and recognized as a driving force in the economy of the subregion, particularly of those countries that constitute the West African Economic and Monetary Union, has been playing an important and irreplaceable part as a regulatory force in West Africa. The millions of our brothers who have come from countries in the subregion, and who live in my country, are substantially responsible for generating the money circulating in their countries of origin. If this country, Côte d'Ivoire, were to implode, it would have unforeseen consequences for the process of solidarity and sharing. On 23 July, the Ivorian people expressed themselves through a referendum on the new draft constitution and electoral code placed before it by the transitional Government. It should be recalled that the military arm was involved neither in the drafting of the new constitution nor in that of the new electoral code. The political parties, social and professional organizations, the administrative regions of the country, religious organizations, women's and youth associations and non-governmental organizations — in other words, civil society — were those who, through their freely appointed representatives, drafted and submitted to the Government these new fundamental 28 texts that the Government, in turn, simply placed before the populace for its approval. This consultation, the transparency of which was very much heralded by the international community, was characterized by a massive turn-out of the electorate of 86.23 per cent. We believe that this result should, in itself, be enough to put an end to the discussions and speculations that preceded and followed the referendum, the tone of which, in many respects, was not to the liking of the people of the Côte d'Ivoire and their friends. We welcome the efforts made by the United Nations, the European Union, the OAU and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in order to try and bring about common ground among the political circles in Côte d'Ivoire and to support the transitional process. Therefore, the international community should be reassured that the people of Côte d'Ivoire will, on 22 October of this year, express their wishes through fair and transparent elections for candidates whose eligibility has been established by the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court. To spend time today still talking about the requirements for eligibility, as contained in the texts that have been adopted, would be an attempt tantamount to trying to perpetuate a discussion whose fate has already been definitely, once and for all, sealed by the people of Côte d'Ivoire. Trained in the school of the founding father of modern Côte d'Ivoire, President Félix Houphouët- Boigny, the apostle of peace, and belonging as we do to a subregion that has been beset by conflicts, some of which have taken place at the very gates of Ivorian territory, the people of Côte of d'Ivoire are only too well aware of the importance of peace. The people are determined to preserve peace without backsliding or compromise. My country is not xenophobic, nor is it a place of exclusion. Côte d'Ivoire is still the only country in the world where foreigners account for more than 40 per cent of the total population. The problems of all kinds that arise from this unparalleled immigration — social, economic and even political — are real. The country is addressing and coping with them as best it can. We do not wish our brothers and sisters, who are living on very good terms with the Ivorian population, to leave. In this respect, we are very proud of being the most integrationist country of the Economic Community of West African States and we intend to remain so. That is why we believe that the desire of the Ivorian people to offer one single political post, that of President of the Republic, to a citizen of established background should not serve as a pretext for spreading malicious rumours about our country and its people. In this connection, we are counting on the understanding and support of the international community to help us successfully through this transition and, within our self-imposed schedule, to achieve the state of constitutional normality that our people so earnestly desires. Let me begin by congratulating the President on behalf of my delegation on his unanimous election to lead the fifty-fifth regular session of the General Assembly. I am confident that his able leadership and vast diplomatic experience will steer the business of this session of the General Assembly to the desired outcome. I also wish to express my delegation’s gratitude to his predecessor, Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, for the able manner in which he presided over the work of our previous session. I commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose commitment in shaping the United Nations to meet the challenges of the new millennium has won the respect and admiration of many. I particularly commend him for his selfless dedication to duty and encourage him to continue serving the international community with the same zeal. The proliferation of conflicts in Africa continues to pose serious threats to peace, security and stability. Conflicts have had a negative impact on the continent’s development capacity and continue to undermine efforts to improve the living standards of our peoples. They have caused considerable destruction and loss of lives, generated millions of refugees and displaced persons and exacerbated famine conditions in areas such as the southern Sudan and the Horn of Africa. Africa recognizes the primary role of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security. It also recognizes the need for cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations in peacekeeping and peace-building. Such efforts have yielded positive results in some countries. However, there are others, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where the United Nations has been slow to act. Positive regional initiatives have been recorded in the cessation of armed hostilities between Ethiopia and Eritrea, under the auspices of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). We commend the parties for the maturity they have demonstrated. We urge both parties to the conflict to uphold the ceasefire while working towards a final negotiated settlement of that dispute. The United Nations is urged to speedily discharge its duty along that common border. The establishment last month of a Transitional National Assembly and the election of the President of the Republic of Somalia was indeed a momentous occasion. I pay tribute to President Ismail Omar Guelleh of Djibouti for his mediation efforts and his steadfast commitment to the cause of peace in Somalia. I call upon the international community to continue providing support and humanitarian assistance to the Somali nation. I also hope that the recently concluded accord on Burundi will bring to an end the seven-year- old civil war and enable the people of that country to redirect their efforts towards reconstruction and development. The recent unfortunate experience in Sierra Leone calls for a review of peacekeeping operations, particularly with regard to the safety, commissioning and deployment of troops. Kenya supports the recent initiative aimed at curbing the trade in illicit diamonds, which fuels and sustains conflicts in Africa. Kenya welcomes the decision by the Security Council authorizing the establishment of an international criminal court to try those responsible for atrocities committed in the civil war in Sierra Leone. It should signal to the rebels there and elsewhere that the international community will not tolerate acts against humanity. Turning to disarmament and international security, we are disappointed that the Conference on Disarmament for the second year running has not undertaken any substantive work. This situation is particularly disturbing, since the Conference is the sole multilateral disarmament negotiating forum. The Conference has for a considerable period of time been expected to conduct serious negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty and a treaty on nuclear disarmament. This Assembly has in various resolutions urged the Conference on Disarmament to undertake such negotiations. During its fifty-fourth session, for instance, the General Assembly passed four resolutions which, inter alia, called on the Conference to get down to serious work. The lack of progress at the Conference is due to the reluctance of key nuclear-weapon States to submit themselves to negotiate in good faith, despite their obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. We still expect the nuclear-weapon States to honour their commitment to undertake genuine nuclear disarmament, which they renewed during the 2000 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty. Failure of the Conference on Disarmament will send the wrong signal to non-nuclear-weapon States and might well encourage those with nuclear ambitions to join that club. After the end of the cold war, there is no longer any justification for maintaining nuclear arsenals, if there ever was one. Kenya calls on the nuclear countries to preserve outer space as a nuclear-free zone. The serious security problem posed by the proliferation of illicit small arms and light weapons is a matter of grave concern to Kenya. We hosted in March this year the Great Lakes Region and Horn of Africa Conference on the proliferation of illicit small arms and light weapons. The Conference, attended by 10 States of the region, adopted the Nairobi Declaration, which calls for greater cooperation and information- sharing between law enforcement and border control officials of States in our region, as well as the strengthening and/or adoption of national laws and control mechanisms governing civilian possession of arms, and urges source countries to regulate weapons and arms transactions through strict licensing. The Nairobi Conference was an important initiative. Kenya is in the process of organizing a follow-up meeting later this year. In the same vein, I should like to express our full support for the International Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, scheduled for 2001. We hope that that Conference will adequately address our concerns. A consequence of conflicts and the proliferation of illicit small arms and light weapons has been the massive movement of refugees across borders. Kenya continues to host a large number of such refugees. This has put a heavy strain on our own scarce national resources. I am happy to note that the Government of Kenya is in the process of finalizing the Refugee Bill 2000 in order to address the refugee phenomenon. The Bill is a result of joint efforts between the Government of Kenya, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other stakeholders. It will provide refugees with a better legal framework in which to live and exercise their rights. Kenya would like to see an end to the disparity in the treatment of refugees globally. We have noted with concern the bewildering inconsistency in the responses to the refugee problems in other parts of the world compared with those in Africa. We hope that in future the international community will respond in a fair and consistent manner to refugee crises in all parts of the world. The promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms is firmly on the international agenda. In Kenya the Government effort is geared towards enhancing public awareness of existing rights and freedoms. In this regard, the Government has prepared a bill seeking to establish an independent human rights commission to monitor and protect human rights. That commission would also advise the Government on its international obligations on the protection and promotion of human rights. During the last session of the Assembly I commended the High Commissioner for Human Rights for adopting a proactive approach to human rights issues. We continue to stress that human rights should be addressed in a global context through a dialogue- based approach. In this way, we will realize wider acceptance and observance of human rights. The rise in transnational networks of crime, narcotics, money laundering and terrorism is another matter of grave concern to us. The effects of the August 1998 terrorist bombing in Nairobi are still evident in our economy and in the lives of Kenyans. We have undertaken measures to contain this menace by establishing special policing units and strict control of movement on border areas and other national entry points. We are also collaborating with international security agencies, such as Interpol, and have signed extradition treaties with a number of States. We call for concerted efforts to adopt effective international measures to eradicate the growing and dangerous links between terrorist groups, drug traffickers and armed criminal groups. The struggle against terrorism can only succeed if there is cooperation between all countries to track down and apprehend wanted terrorists. Kenya supports the initiative to restructure and revitalize the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields. We stress that the promotion of development should remain a central priority of the Organization. The process of reforming the Economic and Social Council should be expedited by organizing its work throughout the year and reinforcing its role in providing overall policy guidance for operational development programmes and funds. Kenya supports the implementation of policies that foster economic growth in developing countries in order to bridge the widening gap between rich and poor. My delegation urges the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions to ensure the facilitation of stronger and more equitable international multilateral development cooperation designed to address the growing problems in economic development. We are all aware of the challenging task of eradicating poverty consistent with the overall objectives and strategies agreed in the Copenhagen Declaration and the Programme of Action adopted at the World Summit for Social Development and with the outcome of the Millennium Summit. Kenya supports and continues to implement the Copenhagen Declaration and the Programme of Action. This commitment is manifested in our Government’s determination to establish a firm policy and institutional framework for mainstreaming the poverty eradication agenda. The formulation of the National Poverty Eradication Plan is a step towards focusing national policies and operational priorities on the poor, as well as providing an enabling environment for them to participate in economic and social development. Further, the Government of Kenya has developed an interim poverty reduction strategy paper, which has been prepared in consultation with all stakeholders. The strategy paper outlines measures designed to improve economic performance, while identifying key actions to reduce the prevalence of poverty. The above measures are part of the Kenya Government’s strategy to restore economic growth while maintaining economic stability. Economic reforms are gaining momentum and are expected to lead to a progressive increase in real per capita growth. Currently, the country is facing a severe drought, the worst in our country’s history. This is having a debilitating effect on our economy. We appreciate the assistance received so far from the international community and seek continued support to deal with the situation. Globalization poses enormous challenges to developing countries, and ours is no exception. Kenya welcomes initiatives that protect the weaker States from the adverse effects of globalization. The ability of African countries to participate effectively, exercise their rights and meet their obligations in the World Trade Organization (WTO) is an important determinant in their integration into the international trading system. My delegation is concerned about the growing protectionism manifested in attempts to support a new round of multilateral trade negotiations within the context of the WTO. Kenya is firmly opposed to the introduction of new protectionist barriers to trade camouflaged as labour, health and environmental standards. At the same time, we urge the implementation of special and differential provisions in respect of developing and least developed countries because of their low levels of industrialization and the vulnerable nature of their economies. The increased globalization of financial markets and capital flows poses new challenges for the mobilization of adequate resources. Kenya shares the concerns of developing countries over the general decline in official development assistance and the free flow of foreign direct investment to developing countries. Portfolio investment, which tends to be volatile and unpredictable, as experienced during the 1997 financial crisis, is a source of financial instability. We support the creation of a new international financial architecture for a more stable financial system. The global market environment poses enormous challenges, and there is an urgent need for supportive international policies that will ensure the financial system’s efficient functioning. The slow progress in Africa’s attainment of sustainable economic growth is linked to the failure to mobilize resources. This has been aggravated by internal conflicts and the prevalence of diseases such as malaria and the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which in themselves have a causal relationship with poverty and deprivation. My country, in collaboration with international agencies, is zealously pursuing scientific research to find a cure for malaria and the HIV/AIDS pandemic. We call upon the international community to support our research efforts to find a cure for these diseases, which continue to ravage millions. Kenya wishes to stress the need to ensure the easy availability of existing drugs to those already afflicted. Given that information technologies are important prerequisites for development, the developed countries should direct resources to accelerate the development of information technology in Africa. In this regard, Kenya welcomes the Okinawa Charter initiative of the G-8 countries and looks forward to the implementation of its aims. My delegation notes the commitment made by the G-8 to speed up the pace of implementation of the enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, in line with the targets agreed at the Cologne Summit. However, the initiative suffers from a lack of commitment to implementation and should be reviewed with a view to being speeded up. We share the concerns, expressed by the leaders from developing countries who attended the Okinawa G-8 Summit, on the impact of the debt burden to poverty alleviation efforts. Debt repayment in sub-Saharan Africa is to the detriment of health, education and other essential services. Kenya urges creditor countries to honour pledges for debt relief and increase balance of payment support to developing countries. Kenya attaches special importance to South- South cooperation. It is in recognition of the important role of economic cooperation among developing countries that we continue actively to pursue economic integration with countries in our own subregion. The relationship between regional and subregional economic groupings is seen within the framework of the African Economic Community, which Kenya fully supports. The institutions established in 1945 are overdue for an overhaul. The world political, economic and security landscape has changed, and so must these institutions. The United Nations must become a truly universal Organization, democratic and representative of the many diverse interests. Its organs should reflect this rich diversity, with effective representation and participation at all levels of decision-making. The General Assembly has to reassert its role within the Organization. The Security Council must also reflect the principle of equitable geographical representation and the realities of our times. Kenya seeks to have permanent seats on the Security Council allotted for Africa, to be filled by African countries on a rotational basis and on the same footing as existing permanent seats. The transformation of institutions dealing with other issues is equally overdue if we are to re-energize the efficacy and effectiveness of the United Nations, as called for in the Millennium Declaration. Kenya appreciates the increased utilization of the United Nations Office at Nairobi. We are nevertheless dissatisfied with the level of involvement with environment and human settlement issues. There is a huge, under-utilized capacity in the Nairobi offices. It should be noted also that the Nairobi Declaration adopted by Member States in February 1997 declared the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to be the principal body in the field of environment. Kenya is therefore totally opposed to the creation of new institutions with similar concerns and calls upon the international community to strengthen the role of UNEP and the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat) in Nairobi. In conclusion, Kenya fully embraces the spirit of the Millennium Declaration, with a pledge to make its modest contribution in the general service of a happier family of nations.On behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Cambodia, I am particularly pleased to extend, through you, Mr. Acting President, my warmest congratulations on the occasion of the election of Mr. Harri Holkeri as President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. May I also convey my congratulations to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, President of the fifty-fourth session, for his eminent leadership and successful steering of the work of that session. Equal congratulations go to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his admirable and untiring efforts made on behalf of peace and development in the world. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome Tuvalu into the Organization and to convey the sincere congratulations of the Cambodian delegation. Tuvalu's presence among us will add a new credit to our Organization. The political platform for economic development, launched by the Royal Government of Cambodia since its formation in 1998, after many decades of civil war and tragedy, and in spite of enormous difficulties and obstacles, has scored good results with regular growth, thus paving the way for a solid foundation for long- term economic growth and sustainable development in Cambodia. The achievements of 1999, and of the first six months of this year, are encouraging for the future of Cambodia. The Kingdom of Cambodia, with its profound belief that the value of democracy and human rights should be in harmony with cultural peculiarities, traditions, and level of development, considers human rights to be one of the foundations of the system of government. The Royal Government of Cambodia, at present, is making great efforts towards the reinforcement of democratic pluralism and the rule of law. The recently held Millennium Summit on the role of the United Nations in the twenty-first century has, through its Millennium Declaration, defined great guidelines on this universal institution's policies and reforms, designed to overcome problems facing our planet in the third millennium. The shared reflection of our leaders is testimony to the aspirations of all peoples throughout the world for a more equitable international environment in the face of rapid globalization and its effects on the economic, social and cultural development of all nations. On the question of the Security Council, the Royal Government of Cambodia believes, as do many Member States, that it is very important for the Security Council to reflect the reality of today's world. This can be achieved by expanding the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Council to the developing countries and to those countries that have concretely contributed to sharing the burden of United Nations operations. Only through overall reform and enlargement will the Security Council be able to maintain its effectiveness and legitimacy in this new millennium. In this regard, Cambodia strongly supports Japan's and India's permanent membership in this core body of the United Nations. The Kingdom of Cambodia observes with great interest the situation in the Middle East. We urge both sides to make greater efforts in order to achieve lasting peace in this suffering region. The Kingdom of Cambodia reaffirms its total support for a fair, equitable, durable, and global settlement based on the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and on the application of the agreed-upon peace accords, so that the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people will be recognized by all. In spite of the consequences of the financial crisis in 1997 and 1998, Asia is on the road to recovery and Asia's economic growth has ever since been recorded. The thirty-third Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Ministerial Meeting held this past July in Bangkok bears witness once more to the exemplary solidarity between member States to integrate their economies and to further advance their multiform cooperation. The Kingdom of Cambodia is very pleased with the inter-Korean summit meeting in Pyongyang last June, which we consider as an important landmark in the relationship between the two brotherly nations, and which has enormously contributed to the maintenance of peace and stability in its region as well as in the whole world and to the peaceful reunification of Korea. (spoke in French) 25 We are witnessing, today, the growing phenomenon of globalization. There are no States that can avoid its immense impact on our daily life. However, the process of globalization is not a sufficient answer to the quest of the developing countries to reach progress and development for better living conditions of their people. It is clear that the impact of globalization benefits, primarily, States having strong economies and advanced technology, while leaving the least developed countries with little, if any, means to cope with such reality. The developing countries, especially the least developed countries, that cannot catch up with globalization's speed will be left behind. The rich countries will get richer and more developed, and the poor countries will get poorer and poorer. Therefore, the Royal Government of Cambodia calls all Member States of the United Nations to unite their efforts and resources to make sure that the benefits of globalization are expanded more equally among the international community and to maximize the positive impact of this phenomenon in order to enable the least developed countries to follow the trend of globalization. Another aspect of finance for development is the crushing burden of debt that weighs on the developing countries. Debt places a heavy burden on the development process of many developing countries. Unfortunately, the debt strategies that have been implemented so far have not proved capable of solving this problem. The Royal Government of Cambodia appreciates the initiative taken by some nations in agreeing to solve the intolerable debt burden of the least developed countries. However, the results are currently far from being sufficient. That is why we appeal for these initiatives to be adopted by some other members of the international community, enabling more poor countries to benefit from these human and just actions. Cambodia sincerely hopes that the Millennium Summit, which has just successfully concluded, will bring about the imperative reform of the United Nations. The reform of this important world body will positively respond to the reality of the world today, and would be able, I hope, to establish a new mechanism to save the developing countries from becoming victims of globalization, even as other countries derive greater and greater benefit. In this context, as the United Nations has been called upon by the Millennium Summit to play a more decisive role in ensuring that the development of nations is more equitable, it is necessary that this world institution possess the means to support its actions. Also, it is an imperative requirement to establish a new mechanism of relations between the United Nations and the international financial institution. Moreover, it is necessary to have a new order of international relations in view of the rapid phenomenon of globalization, so as to reduce the ever-increasing unjust gap between the rich and poor countries. I am convinced that this is not a matter of generosity, but a matter of human security, as well as the security of the entire international community. I would like to start by congratulating you, Mr. President, on being elected to preside over the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly, and wish you much success as you carry out this important post. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank your Namibian predecessor, Minister Theo-Ben Gurirab, for the responsible work and efforts he invested in United Nations activities throughout the year and, in particular, for the role he played in the preparation of the Millennium Summit. Let me also take this opportunity to welcome the admission of Tuvalu to the United Nations, another expression of the openness and universal character of this Organization. The Millennium Summit brought interesting, stimulating ideas embracing the huge potential posed by the experience of the population of the whole planet, formulated in the words of the highest representatives of Member States. The Summit, the most representative gathering ever, gave us a unique opportunity to make a multifaceted review of 5 challenges the world is facing at the threshold of the new millennium. The unexpectedly positive Summit results are generally being appreciated and approved. However, the implementation of those 32 United Nations Millennium Declaration provisions, as well as of an unprecedented Security Council resolution 1318 (2000), will not be easy, cheap or rapidly attainable. The start of the 1990s was characterized by buoyancy and great expectations in handling long-term problems connected with the era of Communism in the world, the onset of democracy and the stress on the importance of observing universal human rights. Bound up in this optimism were expectations that were sometimes unrealistic. Those expectations proved unfeasible in the second half of the decade. The intricate nature of the problems, difficulties in finding lasting solutions, and internal and external crises quite clearly exposed the bounds and the possibilities of the international community, and the United Nations was no exception. Disillusionment and disenchantment sometimes led to the assertion and the defence of utilitarian and other particular interests, which led to feelings of belonging and solidarity being greatly undermined. The inhabitants of the world, suffering from the ravages of war, poverty, disasters and various forms of oppression, expect actions of us today. Can we match these expectations? I hope, and firmly believe, that we can. There is no longer time for further devaluation in the significance of the words development, security, cooperation and solidarity. We can no longer abuse the trust and patience of so many people. If reaching a compromise and consensus continues to be impossible for our diplomats, then it will be all the more difficult to find it among States and entities in individual countries. The United Nations is expected to be able to prove its ability to adapt quickly and carry out internal reform, primarily of the Security Council. The Security Council has to reflect the reality of today, not that of 50 years ago. Only a truly representative and effective Security Council will be able to overcome its current impotence, sometimes veiled in high-sounding but empty phrases. If no remedy is found now, after the Millennium Summit, the United Nations risks loss of credibility, and it will greatly reduce its influence on many processes which are now shaping the world. Here I am thinking especially of those processes we include under the term globalization. Globalization does not stop at Forty-second Street. It is rushing around the world with the force of a typhoon, picking up speed as it is fed ever new discoveries in information and communication technology. But globalization is a much more comprehensive phenomenon than the mere standardization of traffic regulations, television systems or bananas. Globalization entails development and human security, as well as poverty and human fear. But it also encompasses human thinking. If it does not embrace solidarity and social justice, it will continue to divide the world between winners and losers, as was mentioned here from this rostrum recently by the German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer. The United Nations can help with this issue. If it fails, it will be guilty of loosing this crucial opportunity of making the United Nations again into a highly respected Organization able to tackle the most important global problems. We have to find the political will and the means to do so. I would like to dwell on the topic of peacekeeping a little. What I have said about huge optimism and subsequent disenchantment is just as applicable to this area. I am convinced that lasting solutions to conflicts can only be found by peaceful means and by negotiations between all parties involved. Peacekeeping remains a key instrument wielded by the international community, as it establishes peace and peaceful coexistence among the nations. We welcome the priority given to peacekeeping last week. The Millennium Summit meetings, together with Mr. Brahimi's report, present a unique opportunity to strengthen the United Nations capacity for peacekeeping operations. Our pledges to enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations in addressing conflicts at all stages, from prevention to settlement to post-conflict peace-building, should bind the international community from the very moment it approved them last week. Far-reaching but realistic intentions announced from this rostrum by Minister Vedrine on behalf of the European Union earlier this week thus meet our expectations of how to bring into life the Millennium Summit recommendations, anchored in a firm belief in the United Nations potential. 6 Any reform of the United Nations would not be complete without reforming its crucial body: the Security Council. Its role is irreplaceable. The decision-making process should respond not only to a change in the nature of today's crises, but also to the necessary comprehensiveness of their solutions. An increase in the effective capacity of the United Nations Secretariat to act via the reorganization of its Department of Peacekeeping Operations, closer cooperation and coordination with regional structures is an integral part of the process. We must look for ways to react quickly, promptly and effectively. The Czech Republic's approach to the reform of the United Nations Security Council has been voiced many times, and we prove it through our active participation, notably in the open-ended working group of the General Assembly and in the so-called Group of 10. Unfortunately, deliberations on Security Council reform are still short of bringing fruit, being effectively paralysed by the particular interests of several States. The new millennium must soon see a new, enlarged and more representative Security Council, preferably with five additional permanent seats for both developed and developing countries and a few more non-permanent seats. We all have to take to heart the appeal of the Millennium Declaration to further strengthen our efforts in this regard. Whether for programmes or for peacekeeping, in the new millennium the United Nations needs a sustainable and equitable system of financing. In this regard, we are ready to cooperate actively in discussions about making adjustments for the scale of assessments for both the regular budget and the peacekeeping budget. We express our appreciation to the countries that have announced their preparedness to assume additional financial responsibility by moving voluntarily from group C to group B in the peacekeeping operations scale. The Czech Republic has voluntarily committed itself to remain in group B, but that is not a solution to the problem. A new scale is urgently needed. However, negotiations about such a scale should not be trapped in endless debates over past unpaid debts. All arrears should be settled before the adoption of a new, and hopefully fairer, scale of assessments. The anniversary we mark this year of the tragic massacre in Bosnian Srebrenica leads me to the issue of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. The international community's objective is to achieve peace, but lasting peace requires justice. In this respect, the International Criminal Tribunals set up by the Security Council are of prime importance. Besides punishing offenders, those International Tribunals have another extremely important function: to prove personal guilt in criminal cases and, thus, to reject the notion of collective guilt. The Tribunals are also important as deterrents for those who may be thinking of easing their way to power over the bodies of the innocent. The Czech Republic therefore highly appreciates the work done by the International Criminal Tribunals to investigate the crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, and supports the establishment of a similar body to punish crimes committed in Cambodia and Sierra Leone. The International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia increased its activities during the last year, bringing to The Hague war criminals who had greater responsibility for crimes committed. War criminals have been prosecuted there, but their political and military leaders remain at large. Recent developments, however, have shown that leaders themselves are not immune from international jurisdiction. That trend is best illustrated by the efforts of the international community to establish an International Criminal Court, which most Member States of the United Nations voted for at Rome in 1998. The creation of a functioning International Criminal Court, an institution that can play an important role in projecting the principle of justice into international relations and in building an increasingly efficient system for the protection of human rights, is one of the priorities of Czech foreign policy in the field of international law. The Czech Republic is taking all the necessary steps to ratify the Rome Statute as quickly as possible. Developments in international law are directly bound up with the issue of human rights. I believe that the commitment of the United Nations to the right of every human being to a dignified life in safety should become the focus of attention of all Member States of the United Nations. The long and frequently painful process of making progress in international human rights, at the outset of which stood the terrible experience of the Holocaust, has resulted in the concept of universal human rights. The United Nations is playing a key role in implementing that concept. 7 However, I think it would be wrong to use our contemporary understanding of human rights when we look back at events long past. In the last decade, the international community demonstrated both its determination not to accept abuses of human rights and its willingness to defend the principle of the personal safety of human beings, even to the detriment of the well-established concept of national sovereignty. Accepting limits to absolute sovereignty for the sake of human rights is a matter of political principle and morality that forms the basis of the values of the United Nations. As I said here last year, we would prefer, if any actions do infringe on the sovereignty of Member States, that those actions be made legitimate by a proper United Nations mandate. Human rights is not a process that has been completed; it is still progressing. However, we should not judge history by the standards of today. The protection of human rights is one of the fundamental principles of Czech foreign policy. Compared with other international compacts, those on human rights enjoy a privileged status in Czech law. I am pleased that the Czech Republic subscribed during the Millennium Summit to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict. Due efforts to complete a protocol to the Convention against Torture should be made. The Czech Republic also made an active contribution to the preparation of the Declaration on human rights defenders. I believe that the decision made this year by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights on the appointment of a special rapporteur of the Secretary-General for human rights will help give rise to the mechanism we need for the implementation of the Declaration. The last of the more general issues I would like to draw attention to is the issue of sanctions. By that I do not mean weapons embargoes. The Czech Republic views them as instruments capable of reducing the intensity of a conflict, supports them and observes them without reservation. A problem, though, lies in the efficiency and impact of blanket economic sanctions. The last 10 years have provided ample proof that in Cuba, Iraq and Yugoslavia, to take just three examples, blanket economic sanctions, whether declared unilaterally or multilaterally, have been unable to achieve their objective. Poorly nourished, isolated and sick people are hardly likely to rise up against a governing elite that will never allow the consequences of sanctions to affect it or its faithful supporters. The result is that changes in the conduct of the rulers are even less likely. Growing globalization and the economic and information interconnection of the whole world influence and change the conditions affecting the efficiency of sanctions. The Czech Republic would therefore prefer the use of smart sanctions targeted against leading representatives of a State that refuses to observe international law. In my opinion, such sanctions could include a ban on the issue of entry visas and the freezing of assets abroad. I think it would be particularly useful and expedient if the examination of the issue of peacekeeping also included the issue of sanctions. The Czech Republic believes that a similar approach namely, the appointment of a panel of experts on this issue and subsequent discussion of a report drawn up by that panel would be of immense benefit in improving our collective efforts to achieve peace and security by punishing perpetrators and not victims. Allow me to mention how the Czech Republic views some of the most topical questions of international policy. We believe that boosting defence capacities to protect against potential attack is an absolutely legitimate step by any government. In the case of National Missile Defence, however, we are talking of a concept about which there are many questions. In our opinion, security, as it is conceived of today, is comprehensive and integral something that cannot be built up to the detriment of other partners. The Czech Republic believes that the way to a safer world lies primarily in the continuation of the disarmament process and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, leading ultimately to a world free of nuclear weapons. We support the view that a more intense disarmament process will lead to savings in the funds spent on arms. Employing such savings for peaceful purposes would increase the ability of the international community to tackle pressing challenges such as the widening gap between rich and poor countries, and to deal with ethnic and religious conflicts, environmental preservation and so on. I would like to assure the Assembly that efforts to renew the momentum of the disarmament process will 8 continue to have the unequivocal support of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic therefore welcomes President Clinton's decision to leave the verdict on National Missile Defence to the new President. The Czech Republic is monitoring the situation in the Middle East closely, as a traditional and active supporter of the peace process established by Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the principle of land for peace. The Czech Republic resolutely opposes the exploitation of the developments that took place after the Camp David summit to attack the peace process as a whole as well as the positive results achieved so far in negotiations between Israel and the Palestine National Council (PNC). The Czech Republic also emphatically rejects the misuse of this situation to carry out acts of violence, which can only result in unnecessary suffering and more victims. This is not the way to achieve the much-desired peace and stability in the Middle East. The Czech Republic supports the establishment of an independent Palestine, but it would prefer the emergence of such a state in an atmosphere of general support enjoying the consensus of all those involved. That is why we believe that the PNC's postponement of this step by two months creates a certain space for further deliberations. We wish them to be fruitful and successful in their outcome, although we are fully aware that even with good political will on both sides, the issues are thorny and laden with emotions and the burdens of history. Last year from this rostrum I said that Kosovo would be the benchmark for the success of international institutions. I also said that Kosovo was going through a period when peace must be defended that is, a period in which it is vital to achieve political stability and democratization, economic stabilization and the gradual development of the region. We can be proud of what the Kosovo Force (KFOR) and United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK) have done to assist the return of ethnic Albanians who were chased out of their homes by Serbian forces. Regardless of these tremendous efforts, however, we cannot be quite satisfied with the developments in Kosovo. In fact, some of the objectives of the relevant resolution have not been achieved. The positive developments we have seen so far in Kosovo concern mostly one ethnic group; the other still lives under a security threat. There is still a very long way to go before a multi-ethnic, multicultural and democratic way of life prevails in the area. In keeping with Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), the possibility, on a permanent basis, of the return of non-Albanian ethnic groups and the building of a multi-ethnic, pluralistic and democratic society must remain our objectives, no matter how unattainable this aim may seem today. To give up on this objective would be tantamount to an admission of defeat on the part of the international community. Certain negative features of the developments in Kosovo also hinder the chances for the democratization of Serbia. They play into the hands of those forces in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia which build their election campaigns on xenophobia, on the continuation of the political isolation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia, and on the continuation of sanctions. In our view, the time has come seriously to consider taking further steps in Kosovo, including at the level of the Security Council. The Council has already taken the first steps in this direction, but it is imperative for it to return to the Kosovo issue soon. Obviously, many things will depend on the results of the forthcoming elections in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The world beyond the doors of this Hall is changing rapidly. Our children will live and work in an environment that we can only guess at. It is our collective responsibility to do all we can to ensure that it is a world of peace, prosperity, solidarity and tolerance.  Mr. President, I should like to offer you my congratulations on your election and my best wishes for the coming year, and also to convey my great appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his fine work and guidance over the past year. I would like to start by thanking our Secretary- General for his report to the Millennium Summit. It is comprehensive, ethical and most impressive. We have never had anything like it before. One effect it has had is to give deep meaning to the expression the international community. I think that in the past, we have often used this term far too lightly. Now we know what it stands for. It is spelled out in the final Declaration made by our heads of Government, which is now a textbook for the coming year. Its great ideas still echo in this Hall, and its noble aims light up the future. In our view, it has given precise targets that can truly help developing nations. For the first time, we can distinguish clearly between immediate issues and long- term ones. This is very important, because many of the things on which we spend so much time and so many resources are not, in fact, today's issues. They are sad legacies passed on by the twentieth century. Obviously, they are important. Each one is tragic in the consequences it has for ordinary peoples' lives. But they are all primarily the responsibility of Governments and regional organizations. The more they dominate the affairs of the United Nations, the more they stop us from concentrating on the deep- seated problems of developing nations. Those problems are the ones that can truly be called today's issues. As the Secretary-General highlighted in his Summit report, they are becoming very serious indeed. We have even had to give them a new name: transnational issues. They each have academic titles: technological problems; demographic problems; socio-economic problems; and environmental problems. But take away the grand language, and they all add up to a simple fact: they are far too big for individual Governments to deal with, or even regional organizations. It is all too clear that they will not be solved in the marketplace, either. The solutions will not trickle down. In fact, the global market economy has lengthened their list and created its own set of special problems. It would all be very depressing indeed but for one thing. The Summit Declaration has clearly invited us all, as Members of the United Nations, to accept a joint international responsibility to find solutions. Naturally, we may differ on how to go about it, but what is most important is that we have to recognize and accept the need for new priorities. Consequently, we highly value the assessment made by the Secretary-General of where these lie. For example, we appreciate his timely advice that globalization requires policies and measures that are sensitive to the needs of developing nations. We are pleased that he has upheld the peoples' right to development as fundamental. We join him in recognizing the special concern of our friends and colleagues on the African continent. We support all that he is trying to do to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations, because this should enable it to concentrate on what it does best and is best equipped to do. By this I mean the practical, urgent work done by its organs and agencies and its professionals and volunteers, in the field, close to the people. Much of this represents development in areas such as education and training, which are absolutely critical if the people of developing nations are to move beyond a day-to-day struggle for basic food, shelter and medicine and take part successfully in the new global economy. It means that the work of agencies such as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO) is vital. It needs to proceed urgently and not be held back because essential funds are diverted to solving ancient problems. The vital tasks of the United Nations today should not be held hostage by the twentieth century. It has urgent new work to undertake for developing nations. This work can be simply summed up. It is to ensure that the phrase developing nations actually does mean nations that are developing rather than what they too often tend to be, just a polite expression for the very opposite. The Summit Declaration offers us all the chance to do just this, in friendship and cooperation, and I hope that we will do everything we can to implement its provisions. It would be the best form of appreciation we could offer to the Secretary-General and his staff at the end of a remarkable year's work.   At the outset, allow me to join other speakers in congratulating Mr. Harri Holkeri on his election to preside over the Millennium Assembly. I am confident that under his able stewardship we the peoples, and particularly those of us from the developing countries, can look forward with optimism to a highly proactive session of the General Assembly. His election to the presidency is a clear reflection of the confidence which the international community has in his great country, Finland. He can count on the continued support and cooperation of the Malawi delegation in this momentous task. Let me also pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia, for his highly successful presidency of the fifty-fourth session. Less than a fortnight ago, our leaders gathered at this very venue to map out the way forward in this millennium. The enthusiasm with which the deliberations were conducted culminated in a highly inspiring outcome document, which gives a clear outline of what needs to be done. Malawi welcomes the outcome of the Millennium Summit. At the same time, we recognize that the strategic partnership required for the implementation of the outcome document calls for the political commitment of the international community. It is therefore our hope that the enthusiasm with which the world leaders approached the Millennium Summit will translate into genuine political will in the implementation of the measures that were adopted. Let us all build on the consensus that emerged from the Millennium Summit. Recognition by world leaders of the urgent need to address issues bedevilling humanity today is the first step towards building a prosperous and better tomorrow. A multiplicity of factors are constraining the efforts of the developing countries towards achieving economic development. There is therefore a need for a multidimensional approach in order to address the plight of these countries. Such efforts must, of necessity, be pursued at both the national and international levels. Not long ago, Malawi joined other members of the international community in welcoming the process of globalization. We joined the chorus in acknowledging the inevitability of the march towards a global village. In our enthusiasm, we looked forward to meeting the challenges and taking advantage of the opportunities that globalization was envisaged to offer. Today, the experience has proved daunting. A number of constraints dog our march towards the global village. Along with other sub-Saharan African countries, Malawi has yet to meaningfully enjoy the benefits of modern information technology. We all know that the process of globalization is centred on the swift and accurate flow of information. The interconnectedness which information technology brings about offers the benefits of choice. Those who possess the technological capacity are, hence, ahead of the rest in the march towards the global village. Malawi therefore calls upon the donor community to level the playing field by assisting those who lack the capacity to meaningfully take advantage of a modern global information network. There is need to close the existing digital divide. International trade is critical if the economies of most developing countries are to thrive. Malawi's export-oriented economy is, in this regard, no exception. With no mineral wealth of significance, our economy depends almost solely on the export of primary agricultural products and the importation of manufactured goods. The steadily deteriorating barter terms of trade for the primary products has long been a source of concern to us. As if this were not daunting enough, the situation is compounded by the imposition of protectionist measures by countries that offer markets for our exports. A range of non-tariff barriers is being subtly put in place, rendering it difficult for our products to reach those markets. These protectionist measures run counter to the spirit of free trade which we all profess and which we all believe to be necessary for the growing interdependence among 21 countries. As long as barriers to free trade among countries are erected, global integration will face a serious setback. Malawi therefore calls upon the development partners to open up their markets to products from the developing countries. Increased market access is one way in which a country like Malawi could be empowered to meaningfully participate in the globalization process. Time and again, we in the developing countries have expressed serious concern over the existing problem of external debt. Debt servicing has compelled our Governments to divert meagre resources from development programmes. As a result, basic social services and investment in other infrastructure programmes suffer. We welcome initiatives adopted by the development partners to address the problem of debt. The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative is, among other measures, notable. We all looked forward with hope to the recent G-8 Summit held in Okinawa, Japan. However, the lack of commitment to deal with the problem of debt decisively means that the burden still remains virtually intact. Malawi therefore believes that the only way in which the problem of external debt can meaningfully be addressed is through outright cancellation. We invite our development partners to exercise the political will for debt cancellation. We need to free resources for investment in basic infrastructural services. Official development assistance and foreign direct investment are necessary if developing economies like Malawi's are to develop. It is largely in recognition of this reality that the United Nations set the target of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product of developed countries for official development assistance. The general decline in official development assistance flows to the developing countries therefore runs counter to the internationally recognized target. We therefore pay tribute to those development partners who have either met or exceeded the 0.7 per cent target. At the same time, we call upon those falling short of it to live up to the expectations of the international community. Malawi welcomes the trend towards a rise in foreign direct investment over the past few years. However, we observe that, in spite of the steady rise, the distribution itself has been uneven, with sub- Saharan Africa making no meaningful gains. We hope that efforts will be made to address the disparity. Just over 10 years ago, the Berlin Wall came tumbling down in a highly symbolic move marking the demise of the cold war. All peace-loving people in the world who wanted humankind to live in dignity welcomed that momentous development. The concept of “peace dividend” gained currency as the international community welcomed the opportunity to turn swords into plowshares. Today's reality has not borne out our expectations. Trouble spots, both long-standing and emerging ones, dot the globe. During the cold war, we blamed conflicts on super-Power rivalry. Yet conflicts today have assumed different dimensions, and they continue to divert meagre national resources away from development programmes. The protracted civil war in Angola, civil strife in Sierra Leone, the Great Lakes region of Africa, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kosovo and Central Asia, among other areas, perhaps reveal causal factors that we glossed over during the cold war. Greed among politicians and the ruthless pursuit of profit by multinational corporations have, in a number of cases, coalesced to prolong conflict. We have all noted the role that a precious mineral like diamonds can play in unleashing human tragedy. Malawi welcomes the recent adoption by the United Nations Security Council of a resolution that aims at regulating the trade in diamonds, especially those acquired illegally. The international community can count on our unflinching cooperation in the implementation of the resolution. We have also noted the untiring efforts of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security. However, the lessons of the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone, and indeed elsewhere, clearly point to the need for a serious review of the mandate of such missions. The embarrassment that the peacemakers were subjected to is something that, we believe, must not be allowed to happen again. In this regard, my delegation welcomes the recommendations made in the Brahimi Report. We, at the same time, join the international community in condemning the recent murder of three 22 United Nations relief workers in West Timor. We call on those responsible to desist from further interfering with the safety and freedom of refugees and humanitarian workers in the region. Malawi recognizes that the United Nations alone cannot provide miracle solutions to conflicts that rage in the various regions. It is largely incumbent upon the primary players to exercise political maturity and restrain their passions. We note that in most conflict areas, there exist negotiated frameworks for resolution of the differences. And yet, the sheer lack of political commitment has led the parties to wantonly renege on agreements that they so painstakingly negotiated. We therefore call upon all warring parties to respect existing peace agreements and pool their efforts towards nation-building. The Government of Malawi welcomes efforts by the United Nations to rid the globe of weapons of mass destruction. The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) represent some of the notable efforts by the international community to bring about lasting global peace and security. Malawi would like to express its readiness to join the international community in the adoption of measures that seek to advance the cause of international peace and security. We waste meagre resources to keep conflict going, while in the process sacrificing the welfare of our people. His Excellency Dr. Bakili Muluzi, President of the Republic of Malawi, time and again decried this, saying that we, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, are too poor to divert meagre resources to sustain conflict. The above factors present a front which impedes economic development in the developing countries, especially the least developed among them. Investment in basic infrastructure suffers as a result of, directly or otherwise, an interplay of these forces. As long as the international community holds back the political will needed for decisive action, the playing field will remain uneven. As such, the developing countries will continue to be marginalized in the march towards the global village. My delegation does not intend to heap all blame on international factors alone. At the national level, we in the developing countries have to take stock of our domestic policies. Malawi, for one, is doing its part in this regard. The democratic governance which the ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) ushered in the country in June 1994 is well on course. The people's confidence in the UDF-led government was manifested when they re-elected it in the June 1999 general elections. In the seven years of its existence, the Government has put in place institutional mechanisms aimed at promoting human rights and other freedoms that form the core of good governance. Malawi's commitment to the consolidation of democracy is now irreversible. In November this year, the country will take yet another step forward with the conduct of local government elections. We fully recognize the contribution which good governance makes to economic development in a country. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute to the United Nations and those development partners who have contributed to our effort towards the promotion of good governance. As the process goes on, we shall count on your continued assistance. We in Malawi further recognize the central role that a vibrant private sector plays in economic development. For long, the previous government in Malawi neglected the private sector, opting, instead, to boost parastatal enterprises. The new political dispensation has opened up the country to a competitive, free market economy. Inefficient parastatal organizations are falling into private ownership through a privatization programme. Already, there are discernible benefits accruing, most notably marked improvements in the quality of products and services on the domestic market. The existing political stability and the general warmth of the friendly people of Malawi create an inviting climate to the foreign investor. The Government has, in addition, adopted measures which are aimed at creating a conducive investment environment. We, therefore, welcome entrepreneurs to come and sample the market. At the core of Malawi's fight against poverty is the Poverty Alleviation Programme (PAP) which the UDF-led Government launched upon its assumption of office. Within the context of the programme, the Government later launched the Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF), a bottom-up framework that involves the villager in taking decisions on development 23 programmes. MASAF is making the difference in the lives of the citizenry. The face of infrastructure in the countryside, where nearly 80 per cent of the country's population resides, has been considerably transformed. We, therefore, thank the World Bank for the support it is extending to the Malawi Social Action Fund, which is currently in its second phase. Among other strategies, Malawi has adopted measures aimed at empowering vulnerable groups in society. A systematic programme aimed at empowering women through micro-credit and improved access to education for girls are some of these. A few years ago, the Government established the Ministry of State in the President's Office Responsible for Persons with Disabilities, whose impact is beginning to show. Our determined efforts to rid the country of excruciating poverty are impeded by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. In the last decade, the extent of devastation caused by the pandemic in Malawi has been frightening. By targeting the productive age bracket of the population, HIV/AIDS has clearly begun to reverse the hard-won gains that the nation had made towards the close of the last decade. At the same time, we are aware of the advances that the West has to date made in the treatment of HIV/AIDS. The prohibitive cost of the drugs precludes developing countries like Malawi from gaining access to them. And yet, these are the countries that are in the greatest need of such therapy, in view of their high incidence of HIV/AIDS. My delegation appreciates the effort of the United Nations, through the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), to deal with the pandemic. We welcome the fact that the Security Council gave centre stage to HIV/AIDS issues early this year. We believe that the devastation left by the scourge deserves a high international profile. Malawi further calls on those countries with the capacity to make the necessary arrangements to render the drugs affordable for all those who need them. It is clear that if the international community is to forge the strategic partnership needed for a smooth march towards the global village, we need to level the playing field. This calls for political will on the part of all of us. We need to fulfil our shared responsibilities for the benefit of humankind. Malawi welcomes the recent admission of Tuvalu as the 189th Member State of the United Nations. On behalf of my Government and the people of Malawi, I extend our support and best wishes to the Government and the people of Tuvalu. Time and again, Malawi has spoken in favour of granting the Republic of China on Taiwan the role that it deserves in the international community. The hard- working and peace-loving people of Taiwan have clearly demonstrated that they are ready to actively contribute to the goals and ideals for which the United Nations stands. We therefore appeal to the Organization's membership to look beyond narrow political considerations and face the geopolitical realities that obtain on both sides of the Taiwan Strait. The continued isolation of Taiwan does not bode well for the spirit of globalization, which we all acknowledge, has to be all-inclusive. Finally, allow me to reaffirm the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Malawi to live up to the obligations enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. This is the only universal body that is well placed to take us all into the millennium.   Allow me at the outset to join previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the Millennium Assembly of the United Nations. Allow me also to express my confidence that under your skilful stewardship this session of the General Assembly will successfully accomplish its mandate. I also wish to commend our outgoing President, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, for his eminent leadership during the previous session of the Assembly. My delegation extends its warm welcome to the Government and the people of Tuvalu, whose membership has brought the United Nations yet another step closer to universality. This session of the General Assembly is entrusted with the honourable mission of following up on what was agreed by the Millennium Summit of world leaders. For me personally, this session is also very special. For 26 years, or most of my diplomatic career, I have been associated with the United Nations. I feel particularly privileged to deliver as Foreign Minister a policy statement of my Government from this rostrum. A few days ago, Member States reaffirmed at the highest level their commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, their unequivocal support for a more efficient and reinvigorated United Nations and their firm resolve to collectively work towards a healthier and cleaner world, free from fear and free from want. The Millennium Declaration underscored the collective responsibility of world leaders to uphold the principles of human dignity, equality and equity at the global level. That sense of solidarity and shared responsibility is, in our view, crucial for the international community to be able to address effectively the formidable challenges at the dawn of the new millennium. The challenges the world faces today are indeed manifold and complex, both in scope and nature. The central challenge, as identified in the Secretary-General's millennium report, is how to make globalization more inclusive and have its benefits equitably enjoyed by all nations. 4 As recently as the mid-1980s, the notion of globality was virtually unknown in the international vocabulary, let alone the concepts of global governance or global climate change. Yet just a little more than a decade later, not only does the idea of globality blend with our day-to-day life, globalization per se has turned into a powerful and inevitable process. Globalization has been generously showered lately with both praise and criticism. Along with greater opportunities, it can also lead to situations of heightened insecurity, especially for the weak and poor nations. As my President, Natsagiyn Bagabandi, noted in his Millennium address, “Mongolia believes that, with its impartiality and universal legitimacy, as well as its Charter-based prevalence over any other international agreement, the United Nations is uniquely placed to provide an overarching general guidance to the process of globalization … so that it incorporates the human dimension in its seemingly unruly trends”. (A/55/PV.4) As we draw lessons from the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis, it has become more evident that the process of globalization ought to be managed so as to make the best of its opportunities and diminish its negative effects; and that internal policies, no matter how righteous, are not sufficient to ensure sustained economic growth in this era of growing interdependence. This is even more true for developing, structurally disadvantaged countries. In a globally liberalized trade and financial system, these countries need to be assisted to withstand powerful external forces, which so often are utterly destructive. Again, this necessitates a genuine display of solidarity and shared responsibility on the part of the international community. The global fight against abject poverty, inequality and disparity, violence, HIV/AIDS, organized crime and other acute problems is being impeded by, inter alia, the increasing external debt burden, the decline in official development assistance and the growing digital and development divides between haves and have-nots. The affluent countries could exhibit their solidarity and shared responsibility by further opening their markets, providing deeper and faster debt relief, and giving more and better-focused development assistance and incentives for foreign direct investment flows to their less fortunate partners. In this context, Mongolia looks to the upcoming high-level international conference on financing for development, the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, and the new multilateral trade negotiations to produce specific, time-bound commitments. Mongolia welcomes the South Summit Declaration and the Havana Programme of Action as well as the outcome of the meeting between the G-77 and the G-8 in Okinawa as important junctures providing an inspiring vision for more action-oriented South-South cooperation and a meaningful North- South partnership. My delegation attaches great importance to the decisions adopted at the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), which underscored the necessity of creating a legal environment that would facilitate transit traffic for landlocked developing countries, improve transit infrastructure and increase efficiency of trade by eliminating transport and bureaucratic bottlenecks. Here, I am pleased to announce that a first specific step to enhance and facilitate multilateral transit transport cooperation is being taken in the North-East Asian region. As a result of a tripartite meeting held in Ulan Bator under the auspices of UNCTAD earlier this year, Mongolia, Russia and China have agreed to conclude a transit traffic framework agreement. Negotiations to draft such an agreement are under way. My delegation further believes that the upcoming fifth meeting of governmental experts from landlocked and transit developing countries and representatives of donor countries and financial development institutions, as well as a ministerial meeting on transit transport issues, expected to be held in 2003, will play a critical role in strengthening a common framework of action to ease the burden faced by landlocked developing countries. We support the proposals put forward in the millennium report by the Secretary-General on improving the provision of health services and communications in areas stricken by natural disasters. As some might be aware, heavy snowstorms and the extremely cold winter of 1999-2000 in Mongolia caused the loss of nearly 3 million heads of livestock, or about 10 per cent of the nation's entire livestock population. Besides the direct loss of livestock, these heavy winter conditions, known as dzud, had other gravely devastating economic and social consequences, 5 including the loss of precious human lives. I would like to take this opportunity to express, on behalf of my Government and the people of Mongolia, our sincere gratitude to those Governments, international organizations and individuals that rendered timely assistance and support in our efforts to overcome the consequences of dzud. As world leaders solemnly reaffirmed in their Millennium Declaration, “the United Nations is the indispensable common house of the entire human family, through which we will seek to realize our universal aspirations for peace, cooperation and development.”(A/RES/55/2, para. 32) If the United Nations is to adequately respond to the challenges of today's increasingly interdependent and rapidly changing world, a great deal will depend on its ability to adapt itself to an environment that is markedly different from the one in which it was conceived by its founders 55 years ago. The demands on the Organization have increased many times over, especially in the area of peacekeeping. The lessons of Srebrenica, Rwanda and Sierra Leone have made it abundantly clear that a thorough and critical review is needed to make peacekeeping operations succeed in meeting our commitment under the Charter. We are deeply indebted to the United Nations Panel on Peace Operations, chaired by Ambassador Brahimi, which, in its report, presented a frank analysis of the prevailing situation and forthright recommendations for change. The report deserves serious consideration and specific action at this session of the General Assembly. Mongolia stands committed to making a practical contribution to United Nations peacekeeping operations. As part of its efforts to adequately equip its military officers and units for participation therein, Mongolia took part for the first time in recent training exercises held in Kazakhstan for Central Asian countries. Efforts to reform the Security Council have not yet brought us closer to resolving some of the fundamental issues on the agenda of the Open-ended Working Group on that question. Like many others, we continue to believe that the expansion of the Security Council should take place made in both categories, permanent and non-permanent. In the former category, along with major industrialized Powers such as Japan and Germany, developing countries from Asia, Africa and Latin America that are able to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security should occupy their rightful place in the Council. A reasonable increase in the number of non-permanent seats would reflect the representative character of the Council and enable a growing number of Member States to contribute to its work. An essential part of the reform process should deal with the veto power, the use of which should be considerably curtailed. Mongolias vision of the future of the United Nations has been elaborated in the memorandum of its Government on enhancing the role of the United Nations in promoting the security interests of small States, circulated in the United Nations as document A/55/310. North-East Asia is a region where the interests of the big and powerful intersect, where the leftovers of the cold-war era are still discernible, and where territorial disputes await a positive solution. Nonetheless, groundbreaking developments are taking place which give rise to optimism and hope. I have in mind the historic inter-Korean summit, which has played a crucial role for building trust and confidence between the two countries. This and other recent developments may well have a positive impact on the situation in North-East Asia as a whole. Due to its historical and geopolitical realities, North-East Asia is probably the only subregion that lacks a mechanism at the governmental level where security issues of concern can be discussed collectively. Various ideas and proposals to this effect have been floating around for some time, but no serious discussion of this issue has taken place so far at the track one level. The time may have come to start thinking about the possibility of engaging in a dialogue, starting with a free exchange of views on the framework of these discussions. As we review the progress made in the area of arms limitation, disarmament and non-proliferation, our reaction can at best be termed as mixed. While there has been some movement forward in certain areas, there has been little or no progress in others. The 2000 Review Conference of the States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) included in its Final Document a number of agreed conclusions and 6 recommendations related to nuclear disarmament. For the first time ever, with reference to article VI, all the nuclear-weapon States made “an unequivocal undertaking to accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals, leading to total nuclear disarmament to which all States parties are committed under article VI”. (NPT/CONF.2000/28, part I, p. 14, para. 15 (6)) The Conference also agreed on the need to establish in the Conference on Disarmament an appropriate subsidiary body with a mandate to deal with nuclear disarmament. It called for the immediate establishment of such a body. The Conference also called for further efforts by the nuclear-weapon States to reduce their nuclear arsenals unilaterally and for further reductions of non-strategic nuclear weapons, based on unilateral initiatives as an integral part of the nuclear disarmament process. A call has been made for the engagement, as soon as appropriate, of all the nuclear-weapon States in a process leading to the total elimination of their nuclear arsenal. These elements constitute an important statement of purpose and, if translated into practice, will open the way to practical nuclear disarmament measures. Mongolia welcomes the ratification by the Russian Federation of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) and START II treaties, and we look forward to the United States' ratification of the CTBT at an early date. We urge the Russian Federation and the United States to follow up on their earlier announcement regarding the discussions on the START III Treaty. Mongolia joins the international appeal to the key States to ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty so that it could be brought into force as soon as possible. The urgency of this call becomes even more compelling in light of the activities that could seriously undermine the nuclear non-proliferation regime. My delegation also believes that it is important for the Conference on Disarmament, which for several years has been unable to agree on a programme of work, to end its stalemate and to engage in earnest negotiations on an early conclusion of a universal and verifiable fissile materials cut-off treaty. Pending the negotiation of that treaty, we would welcome a moratorium by the nuclear-weapon-States on the production of weapons-grade fissile materials and for greater transparency through disclosure of their present stocks. Better still, we would urge the United Nations to establish a register for all stocks of weapons-grade fissile material. This would help establish an important balance with the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. We welcome the decision taken by the United States to postpone the deployment of a national missile defence system. The undermining of the Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty, a cornerstone of strategic stability, could trigger an uncontrollable nuclear arms race. The growing emphasis placed of late on nuclear weapons in military doctrines is a cause of increasing concern. It is, therefore, only natural that countries like Mongolia favour the adoption of such steps as de- alerting of nuclear weapons, removal of nuclear warheads from delivery vehicles and joint undertakings by the nuclear-weapon powers of a pledge not to be the first to use nuclear weapons. These are essential safety measures that would reduce the risk of unauthorized or miscalculated use of nuclear weapons. In addition, provision should be made for legally binding negative security assurances to non-nuclear States Parties to the NPT, as has become customary for nuclear-weapon States in signing Protocols to nuclear-weapon-free zone treaties. In this context, Mongolia welcomes the Secretary-General's proposal to convene a major international conference aimed at identifying ways of eliminating nuclear dangers. We hope that this timely proposal will be given serious consideration at this session of the General Assembly, followed by the adoption of a relevant resolution to this effect. Mongolia shares the legitimate concern of the world community over the global proliferation of small arms and light weapons, which are the principal instruments of death wherever conflicts and wars occur. We hope that the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, scheduled for 2001, will result in practical measures designed to tighten control, curb the spread and destroy surplus weapons. As is known, in 1992 Mongolia declared its territory a nuclear-weapon-free zone; this was widely supported by the international community. Since then we have come a long way. At its fifty-third session the General Assembly adopted resolution 53/77 D entitled “Mongolia's international security and nuclear- weapon-free status”. As a follow-up to its declaration, 7 the Mongolian Parliament adopted a law last February on Mongolia's nuclear-weapon-free status, thus institutionalizing it at the national level. At this session, we expect a joint statement by the nuclear- weapon States to provide security assurances to Mongolia in connection with its nuclear-weapon-free status, which would represent an important step along the road to institutionalizing that status at the international level. I wish to put on record my Government's appreciation to the five Permanent Members for their constructive cooperation and support. We believe that the aforementioned security assurances would be more credible if Mongolia's other external security issues were duly addressed. In that case, not only would the status be more credible; but it would also allow Mongolia to serve as a positive factor of stability and predictability in the region. In this connection, we certainly share the view of the Secretary-General, expressed in his report on this item, that consultations with the relevant United Nations bodies will produce concrete and action-oriented approaches to addressing the non-nuclear aspects of security. In line with the broader approach to security, and on the basis of relevant provisions of the aforementioned resolution, the International Conference on Human Security in a Globalized World, in the context of Mongolia, was held this year with the participation of the United Nations and international experts; it produced detailed recommendations on a wide range of human security-related areas. In many respects, the recommendations of our Conference parallel the spirit and concepts of the Millennium Declaration. In July of this year parliamentary elections were held in Mongolia, the fourth elections since the onset of democratic reforms a decade ago. The elections were recognized as free and fair by all political forces, as well as by international observers, and served as a testimony of further consolidation of democratic norms and institutions in my country. They proved once again that the embrace of democracy and respect for human rights are an irreversible choice made by the Mongolian people. As a result of the elections, the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party won an overwhelming majority of seats in the Parliament. From this high rostrum, I wish to reiterate my Government's robust commitment to the consolidation of democracy and the continuity of reforms. The task of ensuring human security and promoting human- centred development is high on the agenda of the new Government, as envisaged in its action programme. The Government is resolved to ensure sustained economic growth through reinvigorating and encouraging the development of domestic industry, upgrading the living standards of the people by reducing poverty and unemployment and ensuring equitable social and educational opportunities. The Government of Mongolia will intensify the structural reforms and encourage an export-oriented, private sector-led economy. Mining, the processing of raw materials of animal origin, tourism and other export-oriented sectors are the priority areas of development. The privatization of State assets, including the most valued State enterprises, will continue. The creation of a favourable environment for the attraction of foreign investment is also a priority objective. I fully share the view expressed in the Millennium Report that success depends to a considerable degree on the quality of governance the country enjoys. Hence, my Government attaches particular importance to enhancing the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public offices and fighting corruption in both corporate and public areas. The Government of Mongolia is determined to cooperate closely with non-governmental organizations and other representatives of civil society in enhancing the rule of law throughout the country. In its endeavours to carry out simultaneous economic and political reforms, Mongolia is encountering a multitude of challenges. The eighth meeting of the Mongolia Assistance Group will be held later this year in Paris, and my Government is confident that our foreign partners will continue to extend their generous support and cooperation so as to ease the transition challenges faced by my country. In pursuing its foreign policy, based on the continuity of a multi-pillar, open and proactive approach, Mongolia will continue to develop and expand its friendly relations with the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China on the principles of good-neighbourliness, mutual benefit and equality. My Government will accord high importance to the further development of bilateral relations with the industrialized nations, including the United States 8 of America, Japan, other Asian and Pacific countries and members of the European Union. Their political, moral and financial support will continue to play an important role in facilitating our reform efforts. The Mongolian Government will actively strive to strengthen our traditional long-standing relations with Eastern and Central European countries, as well as with the developing countries of Asia and the Pacific, Latin America and Africa. Mongolia will continue its active participation in multilateral processes and international organizations, such as the United Nations, and will spare no effort to ensure that the world Organization remains a focal point for the coordination of the efforts of the community of nations towards peace and development in the years to come.  On behalf of my delegation, Sir, I wish to congratulate you sincerely on your election as President of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly. This session is indeed historic, coming as it does in the wake of a Millennium Summit that witnessed the presence of the largest-ever gathering of political leaders of the international community. I also wish to commend the other members of the Bureau on their election. May I also take this opportunity to pay a richly deserved tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab, Foreign Minister of Namibia, whose deep sense of duty and commitment to social justice helped shape the United Nations agenda for the new century. Indeed, the General Assembly gave impetus to such an agenda when, in December 1998, it decided to hold the Millennium events, believing strongly that the turn of the century was a unique and symbolically compelling moment to articulate and affirm an animating vision for the United Nations in the new era. Barely a fortnight ago, world leaders met here in New York, following that commitment, to address the challenges of the new century, reaffirm their commitment to the Charter of the United Nations and to demonstrate political will for the new process. The message that emerged from the statements made by the heads of State or Government at the Millennium Summit was the reaffirmation of the unique role of the United Nations in offering the best, and only, universal framework for confronting the challenges of the millennium. It recognized a United Nations capable of promoting a new development agenda that is people- oriented and which also guarantees greater participation of stakeholders, particularly women, the youth, the private sector and civil society at large; a United Nations that has been revitalized to play a more meaningful role in helping developing countries meet the challenges of poverty reduction, political pluralism and the ongoing process of globalization; a United Nations that boldly plays its role as an Organization working for the good of all, with the confidence of the world's people. The conjunction of the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly and the beginning of a new millennium provides a symbolic departure point for the international community to seek to do better in all areas of its endeavour. Today, there is no greater challenge facing our world and no greater issue defining this millennium than the debilitating inhumanity of poverty, its heavy hand on wealth creation, its fast spread across the world, the deadly effect of economic insecurity on peace and security and its impact on the environment. It is thus perplexing that under the effect of globalization, deprivation and inequality are accelerating globally with as much speed as innovation, technological progress and integration, although in different directions. Our collective ingenuity, that of both developed and developing, is called upon to produce answers that will bring us closer than ever before to the purposes of the Charter. We have encountered disappointments as the international community has striven for peace, security, development and respect for human rights. We have also sought ways of dealing with the impact of globalization on international trade and investment. We should not resign ourselves to these reversals, nor should we accept living with them. To do so would defeat the objective of development. The way forward 18 is not only to revitalize the United Nations to enable it to strive more boldly for a more equitable global society, but also to work together to ensure that equity, fairness and solidarity characterize international relations. On the important question of maintaining international peace and security, the role of the United Nations has been, without doubt, that of facilitating conditions under which countries and peoples may live together securely and harmoniously in order to give free rein to their creative talents. One important means of achieving this objective in the midst of violent conflicts that keep erupting has been to undertake peacekeeping all over the world. Ghana has been and will continue to be a major contributor to this effort, as conflicts in Africa especially pose a major challenge to the United Nations efforts to bring about global peace and prosperity. The situations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sierra Leone, to name only two examples, amply demonstrate the complexities of the challenges which the United Nations must show it can handle. In the West African subregion, for example, we must all cooperate in imposing a ban on the purchase of small arms and especially on the purchase of diamonds that are not controlled by the Certificate of Origin regime from countries in conflict. Unless the international community helps by implementing this aspect of Security Council resolutions, international peace and security will continue to be prejudiced by the greed and ambition of individuals. Enhancing Africa's peacekeeping capacity to cope with challenging missions, through training, logistics and financial support, as well as a stronger partnership between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, is a crucial goal if we are to return the continent to peace and security. That is one of the reasons why Ghana attaches importance to regional and subregional peacekeeping initiatives. However, such initiatives should not become an excuse for the United Nations or the Security Council to shirk their primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace and security in Africa. Disarmament lies at the heart of the United Nations efforts to ensure and sustain international peace and security, conditions necessary for all productive human activity. The nuclear threat of the cold-war era still looms large over all of us and will continue to do so until the nuclear Powers and militarily significant countries disarm. It is therefore reassuring that, despite the gloom that has beclouded the United Nations disarmament machinery over past years, positive results were achieved at the Sixth Review Conference of the State Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The United Nations must capitalize on this momentum and continue its search for new ways and means to achieve nuclear disarmament and arms non- proliferation. It must also embark on confidence- building measures in order to enhance the process. In this regard, the Disarmament Commission and other relevant machinery on disarmament established by the General Assembly should be given every opportunity to fulfil their mandates through the demonstration by Member States of commitment, flexibility and the necessary political will. Ghana would therefore use this opportunity to reiterate its support for the proposal by the Secretary- General of convening a major international conference on the nuclear threat. We will also play an active part in the preparatory process leading to the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects, to be held in 2001. Ghana believes that the efforts of the United Nations to promote and maintain international peace and security should rest on a firm international legal framework, hence the need to maintain support for the useful work being done by the International Law Commission and related institutions in the United Nations system. We believe that the tremendous progress made in the establishment of legal frameworks for the pursuit of crimes against humanity, for example, must continue if our societies are to be maintained. In the particular case of Africa, support for the International Criminal Court is not only desirable; it is a must, since censure by the international community is now very necessary in dissuading warlords and rebels from committing the heinous crimes that we continue to witness in countries such as Sierra Leone, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Ghana recommends, therefore, that international law should 19 ensure that the perpetrators of such crimes are punished and that they do not enjoy amnesty from any country. The spirit of compromise which led to the overwhelming endorsement of the Rome Treaty establishing the International Criminal Court, must be kept alive to achieve our objectives in this field. The situation in the Middle East continues to engage the serious attention of us all. Ghana acknowledges the current propitious climate in the Middle East as a result of the revival of contacts between Israel and the Palestinian Authority at the highest levels. The withdrawal of Israeli Defence Forces from Southern Lebanon has given these talks a sense of optimism, and so have the meetings between Chairman Arafat and Mr. Ehud Barak. While we commend President Clinton's efforts, the two leaders of the Middle East are urged to show flexibility and stay the course, as the obstacles to peace cannot be removed without compromise, painful sacrifices, diplomacy and a strong desire for durable peace. Both sides should remember that this is perhaps the finest hour for reaching agreement. The negative forces in Israel, especially, are regrouping, while the younger generation in Palestine are growing more and more impatient. No sacrifice should therefore be too great for success. In this new era we must have the boldness to end attitudes and situations that are no longer helpful to the process of globalization. In spite of the regular acknowledgement by world leaders and other influential policy makers of the need for poverty alleviation, those in a position to do so have failed to offer credible arrangements for debt relief, market access and financing for development which would go a long way in enabling developing countries to build viable socio-economic systems capable of overcoming the fragmentation and marginalization being suffered as a result of globalization. On the contrary, they are using their pre-eminent political and economic positions to try to control and manipulate developing countries, especially countries whose Governments they do not support. It seems to me that the world community is yet to translate the traditional parochial affirmation of the need for equity, fairness and solidarity for national development into concrete international actions. Furthermore, the United Nations will be able to teach lessons of equality and justice to its members only when it practises those norms itself. At the end of the cold war the peoples of the world heard a lot about the peace dividend. Only a decade after this new concept was trumpeted from the rooftops, it has turned out to be non-existent. But that concept can be real if the tenor of our negotiations reflects an awareness of our common humanity and its highest values rather than the diplomatic stock-in-trade of an era shaped by competitive warfare and an unequal advantage of the rich and powerful over the poor and militarily insignificant countries. International cooperation for development must replace inequity and war. Transforming the context of international cooperation for development depends as much on the level of commitment of individuals and groups in our respective countries as it does on what we do as political leaders and policy makers. In this connection, reinforcing and enhancing the network of linkages between the United Nations and civil society is a fundamental necessity. Unless our actions reflect this strategic understanding of the nature of decision- making in the world today, we are unlikely to benefit from the mistakes of our past efforts. We accordingly urge the Secretary-General to examine ways of ensuring common, acceptable standards for accountability and transparency, even in the operations of non-governmental organizations with respect to their participation in the United Nations. In addition, a greater effort should be made to build the capacity of non-governmental organizations in developing countries so that non-governmental organization participation in the United Nations could reflect the diversity of interests across the world. Ghana welcomes the contribution of non- governmental organizations to the work of the United Nations and individual countries, but must at the same time caution against replacing the genuine and democratic voice of a people with those of externally controlled non-governmental organizations and the private sector. Non-governmental organizations and the private sector are vital agents of change in developing countries, but they should not replace the voice of a people, if democracy is to retain credibility. In an age of globalization and of our increasingly knowledge-based society, we feel that the United 20 Nations has a major responsibility to support the development efforts of the developing countries, and that the international community should provide the necessary resources for it to do so. We therefore call once again on all Member States to fulfil their financial obligations under the Charter in full and on time. The challenges facing the international community, such as the growing income and technology gaps between the North and the South, poverty and deprivation, point to the need for stronger cooperation between the developed and developing countries. A concerted effort will be required to promote a systematic dialogue between the two groups to find solutions to these problems. It must be the vocation — indeed, the commitment — of the North-South partnership to ensure that in the new millennium governance, nationally and globally, rests on the recognition that the wealth of some must not lead to the impoverishment of others, and that every person on this earth must have access to certain basic social services, such as health care, education, food and safe water, no matter which corner of the earth he or she inhabits. Thus the rich countries have an indispensable role to play by further opening their markets, by providing larger and faster debt relief and by giving more and better focused development assistance, which would enable poorer countries to sustain a meaningful level of development. It is only fitting that as a developing economy, Ghana identifies itself with the cause of the least developed countries, most of which are in Africa. In this connection, we fully subscribe to the preparatory work for the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries. We expect consensus to be reached on the accessibility of products of least developed countries to the developed markets. Our comments on this occasion would be incomplete without touching upon the crucial question of the empowerment of women and the attainment of gender balance. We also wish to express concern about the persistence of discrimination against women in most parts of the world in spite of the progress achieved since the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in 1995. The challenges to the achievement of gender balance can be eliminated through a renewed commitment to the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. We therefore call on all countries which have not yet ratified the Convention to take steps to do so, and urge prompt implementation of the provisions of the Convention. We also urge those who have entered reservations incompatible with the purpose of the Convention to reconsider their stance, in the interest of advancing the cause of women. The promotion and protection of the rights of children are of equal concern to my delegation. They are the compelling reasons for our co-hosting jointly with the Government of Canada a workshop on children in armed conflicts. It is our expectation that Member States will endeavour to ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child before the General Assembly's special session in 2001 that will review the implementation of the World Declaration on the Survival, Protection and Development of Children and of the Plan of Action. It is also our hope that the positive outcome of the just ended International Conference on War-affected Children, held in Winnipeg, Canada, will be fully implemented to ensure the worldwide protection of children during conflicts. I now turn to the HIV/AIDS pandemic, whose impact has been greatest in sub-Saharan Africa, where it is estimated to have affected the modest gains in social development. Statistics released during the XIII International AIDS Conference in South Africa in July this year showed that almost a third of all people with HIV/AIDS are between the ages of 15 and 24 years. Every minute six people under the age of 25 catch HIV, with girls more than 50 per cent more likely to contract the virus than boys. Based on this data, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) has emphasized that to defeat the disease, Governments must commit themselves to “the largest mobilization of resources in their history” and organize themselves as if they were fighting “a full-blown war of liberation”, with young people in the forefront. This staggering situation must prick the conscience of the entire international community into rendering full support for efforts to control and minimize the spread of the disease. Ghana supports the Secretary-General's proposal for the adoption of 2005 and 2010 respectively as deadlines by which to reduce the rate of infection of young persons through the assurance by the developed partners and their pharmaceutical industries of the easy availability of inexpensive vaccines. To reach that goal, we must also invest in education, publicity, open discussions and 21 moral counselling of our youth, in particular. They must understand that it is indeed possible to avoid the disease by exercising care, since this fatal disease is transmitted in a very limited number of ways. We appeal to our developed partners for their full cooperation. Finally, there is no doubt that the United Nations remains the only instrument for confronting the challenges of this millennium. However, it can surmount these challenges only by sustaining the good will and credibility it enjoys among Member States and this can be achieved only by expediting the democratization of the Organization. May the new vision which our leaders have charted for the Organization in this new century spur us all to concrete action to free our peoples, whose faith and trust reside in us, from fear, want and exclusion.In this, my first statement, allow me to congratulate Mr. Holkeri on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I believe that this is a timely opportunity to emphasize the great friendship that unites the Argentine Republic and Finland. I also express my gratitude to Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of Namibia, another country that is a friend to Argentina, for the constructive way in which he presided over the Assembly's work at the last session. We also offer a cordial welcome to Tuvalu upon its entry into the United Nations and extend our friendship and cooperation to its people. This debate is taking place after a very productive exchange of opinions at the highest level during the Millennium Summit, which we hope will mark, together with the final Declaration, the beginning of a new era leading to a more equitable world and a more effective Organization, in accordance with objectives set out by the Secretary-General in his report entitled “We the peoples”. For my country, this is also an opportunity to set out before the General Assembly the principles and objectives of our foreign policy. The Government of President Fernando de la Rúa, who took office on 10 December 1999, has drafted a foreign policy on the basis of the mandate it received from the Argentine people. This policy aims at strengthening our integration with neighbouring countries, intensifying the hemispheric dialogue and promoting economic development, social progress, free trade and a ban on weapons of mass destruction. Argentina is determined to participate on the international scene jointly to build a peaceful and stable world based on the values of representative democracy, the rule of law, the protection and promotion of human rights, respect for the environment, economic liberalization, social progress, international cooperation and the maintenance of international peace and security, pursuant to the purposes and principles of the Charter. Today, as was stated at the Millennium Summit, these aspirations are shared by the vast majority of Members of this Organization. On the basis of its ongoing interests, the Government has set as a priority objective its political and economic integration with the other States members of the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR) — Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay — and associate members Chile and Bolivia. We have agreed with these countries to consolidate MERCOSUR by adopting the measures necessary to promote greater integration on the basis of balance and equity. We have made significant progress towards the expansion of our markets since the signing of the Treaty of Asuncin in 1991. This was the fruit of the determination of the member countries to implement an open trade policy in their economic programmes. 25 The creation of MERCOSUR was a political decision transcending the economic sphere. MERCOSUR provides a political forum within which trust, cooperation and the pursuit of full integration in all areas foster the increasing complementarity and convergence of our interests. Bolivia and Chile have bound themselves to MERCOSUR as associate members in the context of the Free Trade Area and we trust that they will become full members in the near future. As a consequence of the broadening political and economic dimensions of our integration project, we are also witnessing the convergence of approaches to defence and security in our region. This contributes to a continental perspective based on confidence and cooperation. We and our neighbours have made progress towards the creation of the joint MERCOSUR, Bolivian and Chilean zone of peace. Argentina is part of a nuclear-free Latin America reflecting the peaceful and cooperative security necessary to harmonious development. At the same time, as a member of the Rio Group, which has now grown to include Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua, Argentina has pursued its high-level political consultations and cooperation in order to maintain peace, strengthen representative democracy and promote sustainable development in the region. It is our firm intention that our countries shall enjoy greater participation in the global economy. At the recent summit convened in Brasilia to commemorate the 500th anniversary of the discovery of Brazil, the Presidents of all the South American countries reaffirmed the spirit of understanding and harmony that marks its relations on the basis of these principles and objectives. The consolidation of democratic stability in Latin America continues to be a central policy of the Argentine Government. We do not interfere in the domestic affairs of others and we respect international law. We promote the consolidation of democratic processes on the basis of our deep conviction that free, regular and transparent elections and a plurality of political parties are essential instruments for affirming and guaranteeing the institutional nature of democracy. My country also reaffirms its commitment to eradicating poverty, inequity and social exclusion and to ensuring equal opportunity throughout the region. We shall continue to pursue our joint action in the regional and global campaign against drug trafficking, terrorism, corruption, the illegal trade in arms and organized crime. The Argentine Republic has a natural interest in the South Atlantic that is reflected in our participation in the zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic, comprised of 21 African and three Latin American countries. At the fifth ministerial meeting held in Buenos Aires in October 1998, a plan of action was adopted to implement our shared objectives in the peaceful settlement of disputes, economic cooperation, development, the conservation of fishery resources, the fight against drug trafficking and the protection of the environment. My country is in favour of free trade in order to achieve development and the eradication of poverty. The Argentine Government believes that protectionism not only generates the deflection of trade and the closure of markets, but also constitutes a form of discrimination. Argentina urges the entire international community to commit itself seriously to eliminating distortions of trade and will continue to fight for these objectives. In this regard, we believe that progress is being made in negotiations on the free trade agreement of the Americas to create a hemispheric free trade area by the year 2005. In the World Trade Organization, our country has provided new impetus to the efforts to launch a new round to broaden trade liberalization, particularly in agriculture. Argentina also continues to support negotiations to develop political and economic association between MERCOSUR and the European Union, including, in this framework, the gradual liberalization of agricultural trade and services. We are constantly seeking new ways to integrate ourselves with the world. The realities of technological change and continual innovation require developing countries to adapt to a scheme of international economic integration based on a new paradigm of production. The challenge is to ensure the access of the least developed countries to this process of constant technological change and innovation. There can be no doubt that the international community — in particular the United Nations — must cooperate to promote the transfer of technology from developed to developing countries with sufficient flexibility and breadth so that 26 technological innovations reach those countries with fewer resources. In his report “We the peoples”, the SecretaryGeneral quite rightly attaches great importance to this task. Without the adequate dissemination of and access to the new technologies of the digital revolution, we will see the gap between rich and poor widen. Individual States and the international community as a whole must therefore find solutions that guarantee greater fairness in the use of digital information. Argentina remains fully committed to the international community's efforts to protect the environment from the negative impact of human activities. In this regard we reaffirm our commitment to the principles of sustainable development agreed upon in 1992 at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development — principles that were reflected in the Rio Declaration on the environment and in Agenda 21. Equally, we would like to stress the importance of making adequate preparation — during this very fifty-fifth General Assembly — for the conference to be held in 2002 to review the implementation of Agenda 21. Moreover, we feel it is necessary to consolidate the international legal regimes in the field of environmental protection. In this context, and bearing in mind the devastating consequences of atmospheric warming on the global ecosystem and on human life, we attach special importance to the entry into force, as soon as possible, of the Kyoto Protocol to the Framework Convention on Climate Change. The twenty-first century was preceded by a prolonged strategic and ideological confrontation, which has given way to a moment in history in which representative democracy, human rights and open economies are shared values. At the same time, we are facing a more complex world that has yet to engender a stable international order. The explosion of serious intra-State conflicts — as we have seen in the Balkans or in Africa — are signs of the emergence of a new stage in conflicts — a stage in which, regrettably, conflicts are based on ethnic, cultural and religious differences. The Republic of Argentina aspires to contribute to achieving multilateral consensus aimed at reducing and neutralizing risks to peace and at facilitating the development of nations. We believe that if this consensus were based on greater democratization in international relations this would increase the efficacy and the functioning of the international system. Since it is impossible for individual States to face these threats alone, it is necessary to adopt cooperative security policies to eliminate the potential risk of conflicts and to strengthen the stability and security of legal regimes. It is essential that we face in a united fashion the immediate and underlying causes of conflicts, which often arise because of the lack of economic opportunities and because of social inequalities. The Members of the United Nations face the challenge of finding a response to questions raised by recent international crises, including the international humanitarian crises. My country believes that the principle of non-intervention must be duly respected because it is the pillar underpinning relations between independent States. At the same time, we cannot conceal our concern at the explosion of violence against ethnic, racial or religious minorities. In particular we are concerned about the situation of vulnerable groups, such as refugees and internally displaced persons, and about the situation of children in armed conflicts. Consequently we believe that the international community cannot remain indifferent and must provide an adequate response to humanitarian crises. We must emphasize the role that can be played by international tribunals to create awareness that impunity will not be tolerated. The International Criminal Court and the tribunals for Rwanda, the former Yugoslavia and Sierra Leone, which have been created, constitute important instruments of deterrence. In addition to the internal reforms that the Secretary-General has initiated with singular success within his sphere of competence, the United Nations must give priority to more democratic consensusbuilding in the decision-making processes of the main and subsidiary organs of the system. This needs to be done in a fashion that does not hamper the speed and effectively with which solutions are found to the daily problems facing the Organization. Maintenance of international peace and security is a primary responsibility of the Security Council, which must be strengthened. If these responsibilities are not fully shouldered, no other activity of the United 27 Nations can be carried out with any certainty of success. Since the inception of multilateral diplomacy, Argentina has defended the principle of the sovereign equality of States. It is therefore not surprising that our country maintains that the reform of the Security Council must be arrived at via consensus, and this consensus must not entail new discrimination, privileges or exclusions. The vast majority of the international community — seeking to ensure respect for the values of democracy and universality — believes that a new Security Council will have to allow for greater participation by all. This cannot be achieved if new permanent seats — like those established in 1945 — are established. Reform of the Council must allow all States a greater opportunity to participate in the Council, which must not be monopolized by only a few countries. For this reason, Argentina supports exclusively an increase in the number of nonpermanent members and the introduction of restrictions on the right of the veto, without losing sight of the ultimate objective of eliminating it altogether. We support the adoption of rules of procedure that guarantee transparency and the possibility of the participation of all Member States in this organ. Our support for the peaceful settlement of disputes continues to be a fundamental feature of our foreign policy. President de la Rúa reiterated the Argentine commitment to continue participating in peacekeeping operations established by the Security Council. The most recent conflicts have shown how important efficient training of the forces participating in these missions is. Experience acquired by Argentina in 42 years of participating in these missions is reflected in the creation of the joint Argentine centre for training for peacekeeping operations. It has been operating since 1995, with the participation of personnel from other Member States. We also established the centre for training of security forces for foreign missions. Argentina, which is currently involved in nine peacekeeping operations, places at the disposal of the United Nations its military and police training centres. We also support the initiatives to strengthen the rapid deployment capacity of the Organization, and we would support restructuring efforts aimed at optimizing the planning and support for peacekeeping operations both at Headquarters and in the field. My country was pleased to receive the conclusions and recommendations recently issued by the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations and contained in the Brahimi report. These provide a valuable basis for building international consensus aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Organization to prevent conflicts and to maintain and re-establish peace. Argentina, which is part of the Bureau of the Special Committee for Peacekeeping Operations, supports the conducting, as soon as possible, of a detailed analysis of the recommendations contained in the Brahimi report — including its possible financial implications — with a view to achieving its early implementation. My Government is particularly concerned about the problems related to the security and protection of those who participate in peacekeeping operations and humanitarian missions. The personnel of the United Nations and associated personnel, as well as the personnel of other agencies that provide humanitarian assistance, are facing increasingly risks situations, as we have seen recently in the tragic events that have occurred around the world. Consequently, Argentina, which is a party to the 1994 Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel, has urged an improvement in the security situation of United Nations personnel via the adoption of practical and legal measures, including financial-planning and implementation measures for these operations. In this context we should also reiterate the duty of the international community to provide assistance to those countries facing emergency situations, which arise as a result either of natural disasters or of armed conflicts. In this area a significant role can be played by the “White Helmets” initiative, which involves the establishment of bodies of specialized volunteers organized by the Members of the United Nations to provide humanitarian assistance to peoples who are victims of extreme emergencies and also to mitigate the serious problems that affect these people. We should also mention the issue of AIDS which particularly affects the poorest areas of the world. More than 34 million people suffer from this illness today. The virus has spread dramatically. In particular, more than two thirds of the victims are in sub-Saharan Africa. This pandemic is aggravating poverty. The illness and death of so many workers is draining already weakened economies. The impact of this phenomenon on the future of the affected regions will 28 probably mean greater marginalization and will undermine the foundations of stability, security and peace. The international community and this Organization and its specialized agencies must contribute urgently all available resources to the fight against this disease. I would like to refer in particular to the sovereignty dispute between my country and the United Kingdom regarding the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands as well as the surrounding seas. The recovery of the full exercise of sovereignty over this part of our national territory, respecting the interests of the inhabitants and international law, is a precept enshrined in the Constitution of Argentina. This item is on the agenda of the Organization, which in numerous resolutions has requested the Governments of Argentina and the United Kingdom to renew negotiations to find a just and definitive solution to the sovereignty controversy, thus putting an end to a colonial situation imposed by force in 1833. Today, in accordance with that request, Argentina reiterates once again its complete willingness to renew bilateral negotiations with the United Kingdom to resolve this question. We reiterate our support for the mission of good offices with which the General Assembly charged the Secretary-General to assist the parties in achieving this objective. The world stage in the post-cold-war era is the scene of ethnic conflicts, civil wars, massive violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, illegal traffic in arms and other threats. At the same, time we are seeing the unprecedented spread of representative democracy and economic and technological modernization. Against this backdrop, our main task is to reach agreements that will enable us to face these challenges and seize these opportunities in the best way possible. Equipping the United Nations for the challenges of the new millennium is the great task awaiting us. All Member States must undertake to fulfil this commitment if our efforts are to be crowned with success. Argentina is committed to this task and will continue making its contribution. On 31 December next, my country will end its term as a member of the Security Council. During its two-year term, Argentina has done its utmost to contribute constructively to decision-making and consensus-building on all items on the Council's agenda. On the basis of our potential and bearing in mind the features of the current international situation, Argentina intends, in the twenty-first century, to continue to play an active part in the consolidation of peace and international security and in the development of peoples.   