Allow me to begin my statement by expressing the pleasure of the Government and people of Panama on your well- deserved election, Sir, as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. We fully supported that election. We value your understanding of most of the issues that are the subjects of debate in this world arena and the opportunities afforded us by the experience that you have gained in your homeland, along with that in general of the peoples of Eastern Europe, a region that, in recent years, has been the crucible of the most complex problems and, at the same time, the most innovative solutions. I also pay tribute to the extraordinary work of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who has made undeniable and productive efforts to achieve reconciliation among peoples living in the midst of conflict. I wish to express my satisfaction at having been able to stand with the American people at the commemoration of the first anniversary of the tragic events of 11 September. Images of the moving and, above all, authentic homage paid yesterday morning will remain graven indelibly in my memory. If the nationalities of the heroes had been noted along with their names, we would undoubtedly have understood more clearly that this crime was an assault not only on the United States of America, but on the whole of humankind. Terrorism has become the gravest threat to international security and to the environment of peace that has gradually gained ground throughout the world. This has come at the price of an immense sacrifice in 13 terms both of human life and of resources that should be devoted to promoting the collective well-being of our societies. That is why terrorism must be defeated utterly, using all means available to us, wherever it may be found. With such resolve, Panama has taken specific steps, ratifying the major international instruments against terrorism and adopting and implementing domestic legal norms designed to control the sources of financing. In the context of this collective endeavour, our country has chaired the Committee on Hemispheric Security of the Organization of American States, seeking thereby to adapt to our realities all instruments that are relevant to this issue, while strengthening mechanisms of cooperation in the fight against terrorism. In the light of that commitment, on 7 March we ratified the Rome Statute creating the International Criminal Court and deposited our instruments of ratification with the United Nations on 21 March. We firmly believe that, as stipulated by the Statute, we must end the impunity of those who commit appalling crimes against humanity, regardless of the charges brought by the victims and of the immunities that may have been extended to the perpetrator within or outside his own country. However, the fight against terrorism and the abuse of power that hinders democracy and undermines human rights must go hand in hand with genuine growth opportunities for the developing countries. The Republic of Panama has unreservedly assumed the commitment to broadly disseminate the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action on women, as well as to implement the Platform's 12 critical areas of concern. We also reaffirm that the progress of nations must be based on sustainable development, guided by the commitments undertaken at Rio de Janeiro and the relevant processes culminating at Johannesburg, with all their agreements and initiatives. Our foreign policy is based on the fundamental values of our people, such as the promotion of democracy and good governance, solidarity and international cooperation. For that reason, we have embraced the free trade option, but, as we indicated in Monterrey in March 2002, a more equitable economic regime must be consolidated that will enhance opportunities for cooperation, address the question of our external indebtedness and stimulate free trade based on equity and symmetry. In that context, we currently host the interim secretariat for the Free Trade Area of the Americas, aspiring, as we have demonstrated, to become the site of the permanent secretariat in 2005. Panama is moving firmly in the right direction, addressing the far-reaching themes of the new millennium with the active participation of society. It is modernizing the State administration, tackling the need to modernize its educational and social security systems and developing its rural sector. At the same time, we are beginning to forge a new industrial strategy with tools that will give us access to international markets on a competitive footing in terms of price and quality. At the same time as the Panama Canal is being rapidly modernized to respond to the demands of world trade, we are enhancing our democratic stability through increasingly efficient and transparent processes. We respect and support human rights, particularly the freedom of expression, and we are taking innovative steps to guarantee a promising future for our society. In the context of all of these initiatives, which are repeated in country after country, the United Nations, without doubt, will have to play a much more aggressive role, sustaining and enhancing capacities for political dialogue and preventing the economic domain from assuming that role. For that reason, this revitalizing effort must be supplemented with sustained action, as has been recommended by the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States and other regional groups. Panama hails the way the Security Council has conducted its work over the past year and continues to believe that this important United Nations organ be composed of a larger number of members. However, as we did at the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, we stress today that consideration of permanent or non-permanent status must be linked to justifications in keeping with the new vision of the world and that changes must not be introduced that could lead to the permanent distribution of privileges that became manifestly obsolete years ago. 14 Like the rest of the world, we are concerned at the situation in the Middle East, in neighbouring Colombia and in many other parts of the world where international support is still being anxiously awaited. Our Government believes that the benefits of the United Nations system and its various bodies must be extended to the people of Taiwan, while fostering a broad debate with the aim of beginning formal, peaceful negotiations that will lead the people of China to resolve existing differences. Our delegation is particularly gratified at the presence of so many political leaders who have come here in a gesture of fraternal solidarity with all the citizens of the world who were victims of the madness and the evil of groups that do not understand the advantages of dialogue and civilized understanding. We will only be able achieve the lofty goals we are setting at this forum through the unity of those who aspire to live in a fraternal, prosperous and peaceful world. May God enlighten us and guide us in the search for that legitimate aspiration.   ﻿I congratulate Mr. Kavan on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I also extend my best wishes to Secretary-General Kofi Annan in this first year of his second term in office. Two days ago, we commemorated the first anniversary of a terrible event that focused the collective global consciousness on international terrorism. Terrorism did not start on 11 September. It was on that day that it brazenly announced itself on the global stage, flaunting its immunity from distance and power. 15 As a country exposed to the depredations of terrorism for decades, India empathized with the pain of the American people, admired their resilience in coming to terms with the consequences and supported the bold decision to counter-attack terrorism at its very source. The international community has taken some collective decisions in the global effort to combat terrorism and to choke off its lifelines. Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) contains the essence of these decisions. The Council's Counter-Terrorism Committee should now move beyond information compilation and legal assistance to enforcing compliance by States known to be sponsoring, sheltering, funding, arming and training terrorists. In our South Asian region, nuclear blackmail has emerged over the past few months as a new arrow in the quiver of State-sponsored terrorism. Dark threats were held out that actions by India to stamp out cross- border terrorism could provoke a nuclear war. To succumb to such blatant nuclear terrorism would mean forgetting the bitter lessons of the 11 September tragedy. As far as India is concerned, we have repeatedly clarified that no one in our country wants a war, conventional or otherwise. Nor are we seeking any territory. But absolutely everyone in India wants an end to the cross-border terrorism which has claimed thousands of innocent lives and denied entire generations their right to a peaceful existence with normal economic and social activity. We are determined to end it with all the means at our command. Let there be no doubt about that in any quarter. Yesterday we heard the extraordinary claim in this Assembly that the brutal murder of innocent civilians in Jammu and Kashmir is actually a freedom struggle and that the forthcoming elections in that state are a farce, since they cannot be a substitute for a plebiscite demanded over 50 years ago. It requires an effort of acrobatic logic to believe that the carnage among innocents is an instrument for freedom and that elections are a symbol of deception and repression. If the elections are a mere fraud, why are terrorists being trained and infiltrating India at the command of the Inter-Services Intelligence Agency of Pakistan to kill election candidates and to intimidate voters? If Pakistan claims to be a crucial partner in the international coalition against terrorism, how can it continue to use terrorism as an instrument of State policy against India? How can the international coalition condone Pakistan-directed killings of thousands of innocent civilians women and children included to promote a bizarre version of self-determination? Those who speak of underlying or root causes of terrorism offer alibis to the terrorists and absolve them of responsibility for their heinous actions, such as the 11 September attacks on the United States or the 13 December attack on our Parliament. Yesterday we heard yet another patently false and self-serving claim that in India Muslims and other minorities are the target of Hindu extremists. With 150 million Muslims, India has the second largest Muslim population in the world; greater than that of Pakistan. We are proud of the multi-religious character of our society. Equal respect for all faiths and non- discrimination on the basis of religion are not just part of our Constitutional obligations, but, as the whole world knows, they are the signature theme of India's civilization and culture. We have to recognize that the developmental divide between the North and the South is becoming wider and deeper by the day. The challenges that face us are stark, and there is no alternative to having all countries of the world join hands to face them together. Over the last decade, 10 million people have been joining the ranks of the poor each year. A quarter of the world's population lives in extreme poverty. We have to find US$ 24 billion annually for investment in poor countries, if we are to achieve the World Food Summit goal of halving hunger by 2015. The continuation of widespread poverty, at a time when unimaginable wealth is concentrated in a small social layer, is totally unacceptable. The twenty-first century has all the means to end this sad legacy of the past centuries. What is lacking is the political will among the developed countries to sincerely and speedily address the legitimate developmental needs of the developing countries, especially the least developed ones. 16 Casting an even longer shadow over this grim developmental canvas is global climate change, from which the poor will most suffer, though they contributed least to it. The recent floods and forest fires in Europe are a forewarning that the countries of Asia and Africa are not the only victims of the fury of a degraded environment. The Earth's atmosphere and biosphere know no national boundaries. The choice before the global community is stark: Either we take urgent steps to protect the environment or be prepared for far worse natural calamities. Early this month, the Johannesburg Summit for Sustainable Development debated some of the linkages between poverty, trade, environment, national, international and corporate governance and global financial flows. We emerged from the Summit with some encouraging outcomes, but these fell well short of the demands of our time. It has become a categorical imperative to understand and address man's developmental needs in their totality, and not in isolated parts. It is disconcerting that the highways of development are jammed with the noisy and unruly traffic of materialism and its brash cousin, consumerism. Human values have become mute bystanders in most political, economic and social activities. The result of this imbalance between our material and non-material needs can never be happy for mankind. On the contrary, if we are guided by compassion, care, feeling for our fellow human beings, cooperation and other human values, we are bound to get the right solutions to every problem on our planet. Humanity is crying out for a harmonious integration of the economic, social, political, environmental and spiritual dimensions of development. This task calls for the closest possible cooperation among nations and communities, with a readiness to accept the best from every cultural and spiritual tradition around the globe. The United Nations needs to take up newer and bigger initiatives in this direction. In this Assembly, less than a year ago, and in the United States Congress the year before, I had extended India's offer to coordinate a comprehensive global development dialogue. I reiterate that offer today. If we are to achieve the development goals we have promised ourselves by 2015, we need such a dialogue urgently. As we come together once again at the United Nations, at a time of new and diverse challenges, we should reflect on our collective commitment to the Charter, its purposes and principles. There is a growing perception, particularly among the weaker and poorer countries, that responses to issues of far-reaching impact often seem arbitrary and contradictory. A common destiny is at stake. The world needs collective multilateralism. It needs the United Nations, the coming together and working together of all its nations in the development of a common and collective perspective. Conflicts arise when there is no spirit of democracy within and among nations. A genuinely democratic framework enables us to respect alternative points of view, to value diversity and to fashion solutions responsive to the aspirations of people. India's own experience as a hugely populated and diverse nation shows how complex problems can be addressed within a constitutional and democratic framework. These values need to be assiduously nurtured in our societies, so that at least a future generation is rid of the scourge of poverty, intolerance, obscurantism and religious extremism. Democratic societies are far less prone to ideologies based on violence or militarist yearnings, since they do not have their fingers permanently on the trigger of a gun. We have to be vigilant against threats to democracy worldwide arising from forces that are opposed to it, be they rooted in fundamentalist political ideologies or extremist religious dogmas. All of us are aware of the challenges. Most of us are agreed that a stable global order has to rest on the four strong pillars of peace, security, sustainable development and democracy. We have to ensure that each of these pillars is strong and resilient. We are conscious of our collective responsibility. It is the leap from this theoretical understanding to its practical realization that we have often failed to execute. We should not fail again. Our future generations will not forgive us if we do.  ﻿Mr. President, it gives me great pleasure to join others in congratulating you on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. This is not only a recognition of your wisdom and ability to successfully guide the work of this important session, but also a demonstration of the high regard the international community has for your country, the Czech Republic. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, for the exemplary manner in which he guided the work of the fifty-sixth session. On behalf of my Government, I would like to extend a very warm welcome to Switzerland on its admission to the membership of this Organization. We are eagerly looking forward to welcoming the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste into our midst shortly. Eight days ago, the friendly people of the United States remembered, with profound sorrow, the death and destruction inflicted upon them by murderous acts of terrorism on 11 September 2001. Those brutal and cowardly acts sent waves of deep shock and anger throughout the world. My country was quick to condemn the attacks and to express its solidarity with the people of the United States. We shared their grief, and we extended our sympathies to the American people. Today, with our modest resources, we stand with the international community in the global fight against terrorism and in banishing the scourge of terrorism from the face of the earth. My country believes that the United Nations, the primary global organization responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, must play the central role in the fight against terrorism. We were encouraged by the swift response of the Security Council, taken under Chapter VII of the Charter, after the horrifying attacks on the United States last year. Total compliance with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), which details the measures to be taken by the international community in combating terrorism, is of utmost importance. My country also believes that it is essential to strengthen the existing national, regional and international legal framework against terrorism if we are to effectively fight this war. The proposed comprehensive convention on international terrorism and the international convention for the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism need to be finalized as soon as possible. The unprecedented economic ramifications of the events of Nine-Eleven were enormous. Small island developing States like my own have not recovered from the adverse economic effects of the events yet, thus demonstrating the vulnerability of our economies. Our losses were immeasurable. Nonetheless, recent developments in the area of international economic cooperation appear encouraging. The Doha agenda and the Monterrey consensus offer new hope for achieving sustainable development. The transformation of those commitments into concrete action, and achievement of the Millennium Development Goals depends on forging a new form of partnership with shared responsibility between the developing countries and the rest of the world. We expect the developed countries to fulfil their part of the understandings, while the developing countries endeavour to fulfil their obligations. My country, the Maldives, has made considerable economic strides in the past. With the continued assistance of the international community, we have demonstrated the effectiveness of official development assistance (ODA). It is true that two decades of political stability, and sound social and fiscal policies, 5 combined with hard work, have improved the standard of living of our people. We are immensely proud of our modest achievements and grateful to those who helped us. Yet, our narrow economic base poses formidable challenges to our desire for continued economic growth. Globalization and trade liberalization have added new dimensions to our difficulties. The inherent structural weaknesses of our economy convince us that the preferential access to markets and concessional capital we now enjoy as a least developed country have no alternative form of compensation. Quite simply, we cannot sustain our development without these special treatments. These considerations compel us to strongly resist the call for the graduation of our country from the list of least developed countries. We genuinely believe that the international community should continue assisting us in our quest to overcome the structural constraints impeding our arrival at a level of sustainable growth until we overcome the inherent vulnerabilities of our economy. The Committee for Development Policy will present its recommendations on the question of graduation of the Maldives from the list of least developed countries to the substantive session of the Economic and Social Council in the year 2003. We urge the Committee to complete the necessary groundwork, in accordance with all the relevant Economic and Social Council and General Assembly resolutions, before it gives its views on this very important matter. A fortnight ago, we met in Johannesburg at the World Summit on Sustainable Development to take stock of our achievements since the Earth Summit in Rio 10 years ago. The facts are disappointing and discouraging. What we have achieved over the past 10 years is far less than what we have not. And, while apathy keeps progress curbed, environmental degradation of the world is continuing unabated. If we are to halt and reverse environmental degradation, we must not only pledge urgent action but also take it. As President Abdul Gayoom of the Republic of Maldives emphasized in his address to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, for sustainable development to happen, “Agenda 21 must be implemented. The Kyoto Protocol must be universally honoured. The Barbados Programme of Action must be carried out. The Millennium Development Goals must be reached”. My country, the survival of which is threatened by climate change, therefore remains concerned over inaction and indifference with regard to the implementation of the plans of action for environmental protection and sustainable development. Turning to another issue, we have been witnessing an unprecedented deterioration of the situation in Palestine and the Middle East. The Israeli Government has killed the peace process and has driven the region to the brink of war. Its acts of aggression and the use of excessive force, coupled with political assassinations, the destruction of vital installations and infrastructure, blockades and economic suffocation of the Palestinian people, are all designed to frustrate the prospects for an independent Palestinian State. We condemn these dastardly actions and call on the international community to persuade Israel to withdraw from all occupied Palestinian territories and to respect all relevant Security Council resolutions. The Maldives has consistently supported the just struggle of the Palestinian people to regain their inalienable rights and to establish an independent Palestinian State with Al-Quds as its capital. We believe that the United Nations has an important role to play in bringing the two sides back to the negotiating table. We recognize the efforts of the Quartet, and encourage its members, especially the United States, to remain actively engaged in the search for a just, permanent and lasting peace in the region. Disarmament and arms control measures should remain a high priority on the international agenda. The international community must unite and act collectively to strengthen and enforce the non- proliferation regimes. The Maldives is party to all major multilateral instruments relating to arms control and disarmament, including the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We call on those countries that are not party to those instruments to accede to them as soon as possible. Furthermore, my country believes that the establishment of nuclear- weapon-free zones and zones of peace in various parts of the world can contribute immensely to the efforts of the international community in this regard. 6 As well, we should vigorously pursue our efforts and enforce verifiable measures to rid the world of biological and chemical weapons that can cause mass destruction. My country, therefore, believes that bilateral, regional and multilateral approaches must be reinforced and that they must complement one another if we are to free the world of those deadly weapons. We believe also that, on global issues, there should be a sincere commitment to multilateralism and trust in the multilateral institutions. The United Nations must not only be placed at the centre of multilateral processes, but should remain the principal player responsible for grappling with these important global issues, which have such a great bearing on international peace and security. In conclusion, allow me to reiterate the firm commitment of the Maldives to the principles and purposes enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. We firmly believe that the United Nations requires reform and restructuring. The aim of the reform process should be the enhancement of the credibility, legitimacy and universal character of the O1rganization. This involves the reform of the Security Council, a new working relationship, and a strong enforcement regime within the United Nations and among its Member States. Together with other members of the international community, the Maldives will work to uphold and promote the objectives of the United Nations. We remain convinced that the United Nations is the only organization that is capable of creating a more peaceful and prosperous world for humanity. ﻿In a year of frightful tragedy and uncertainty, we were at least fortunate to have the charisma and leadership of Mr. Han Seung-soo, as President of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. We also take this opportunity, Mr. President, to warmly congratulate you. We welcome the admission of the Swiss Confederation to the United Nations family, and we are pleased at the future status of East Timor. Under the enlightened leadership of Mr. Kofi Annan, the United Nations has rediscovered its relevance and its credibility. The reform measures he has implemented in recent years have enabled better coordination, better information-sharing, strengthened cohesion and a stronger strategic direction. Today the United Nations is working more and more closely with civil society to fight disease, address the challenges of poverty and respond to humanitarian crises. The Organization has also built a meaningful partnership with private sector enterprises, aimed at having developing countries benefit from their expertise and resources. In that regard, the Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development and the World Summit on Social Development, held in Johannesburg, have highlighted the unprecedented collaboration of various decision-makers, such as the United Nations, Governments, the private sector, international financial institutions and civil society. Last week, during numerous commemorative ceremonies marking the horrible events of 11 September 2001, it was obvious that the world had been left traumatized. The reverberations of 11 September are still palpable throughout the United Nations system and the world. Indeed, within less than 24 hours, the Security Council took decisive action, 12 declaring that the 11 September attacks posed a threat to international peace and security. The important resolution on the fight against terrorism, Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), established a general procedure for verifying that every country is implementing the relevant provisions of the resolution, in order to eradicate that scourge. Our resolve and determination to fight the threat of terrorism has undoubtedly been strengthened. The event itself alerted us to understanding and perceiving certain basic truths: human vulnerability and interdependence, the mobilization of a real international coalition in a short time, if need be, and our common resolve to eradicate the criminals who take innocent life, regardless of nationality, religion, sex and colour. Presiding over the official ceremonies marking the anniversary at the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, said that: “Everything that we work for — peace, development, health, freedom — is damaged by this horror. Everything that we believe in — respect for human life, justice, tolerance, pluralism and democracy — is threatened by it. It must be defeated — and it must be defeated by a world acting as one.” (SG/SM/8376, para. 7) Therefore, combating terrorism requires more aggressive law enforcement measures everywhere. In order to eradicate that horror, almost all countries have initiated an extraordinary series of actions, which have converged towards a complete reorientation of their policies, and particularly their foreign policies. We have witnessed countries pursuing policies to reach out to others, to strengthen ties, to share global visions and to forge new strategic alliances. There is no doubt that the events of 11 September 2001 have led to the forming of new alliances and the strengthening of existing ones. However, it should not be a surprise that this has also generated stricter controls on the movements of people, particularly people of certain religions, backgrounds, complexions and regions. There is no doubt that we are living in a dangerous world in which vigilance is called for. However, while taking all that into account, let us be careful not to debase our grief for the victims and their families. As an editorial in a well respected newspaper stated: “What happened a year ago was terrible, but our shock and our respect for the suffering of those left behind should not cloud our judgement about unrelated issues”. (The Independent, 11 September 2002) In the Secretary-General's words of 11 September 2002, on the first anniversary of that unspeakable tragedy: “Today, we come together as a world community because we were attacked as a world community. “... “May the memory of those who perished on 11 September serve to inspire a better, more just, more peaceful world for all of us”. (Press release SG/SM/8376) We hope that reason will prevail over fear, prejudice and hatred. We welcome President Bush's commitment to explore fully the route of the Security Council in finding a way to draw Iraq towards a peaceful settlement of the outstanding issues. We also welcome Iraq's unconditional agreement to the return of the United Nations inspectors. That demonstrates its readiness and full cooperation in the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. It is, indeed, an encouraging development. We must dedicate ourselves to seeking a political solution within the framework of the United Nations. And the United Nations must act, and act very quickly, to put an end to the acute crisis which threatens to engulf an entire region and which could have an impact on the whole world. We all know the consequences of this crisis. Let us join together and work with determination to save the region, which is already in turmoil, from further conflict. One of the gravest yet often overlooked threats to world peace is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The Republic of Djibouti agrees with the Secretary-General that the route to peace in the Middle East was laid out decades ago in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), and, recently, in resolution 1397 (2002), which stipulated the conditions of land for peace, an end to terror and to occupation and two States, Palestine and Israel, living side by side within secure and recognized borders. Unfortunately, the focus has been shifted again by demands for a leadership change in the Palestinian Authority and for 13 political and security reforms, while simultaneously easing Israel's obligation to return to the negotiating table. The so-called sequential approach has always failed. It is urgent to move forward on all the issues, comprehensively and simultaneously. To the political impasse should be added the economic destruction that has resulted from the insurmountable checkpoints, roadblocks, repeated incursions and the demolition of buildings and supply networks. The Palestinian people are in danger; a whole nation is virtually living in a prison. There is a growing, unprecedented humanitarian crisis, as stressed by a number of recent reports, describing in detail the levels of malnutrition, the drop-off in child immunization programmes, the increased risk of communicable diseases and runaway, endemic poverty. We remain steadfast in our condemnation of the violence and the killing of innocent civilians, whether they be Palestinians or Israelis. In this context, we welcome the latest plan of the Quartet, which outlines a three-phase road map to a comprehensive final settlement within a three-year period ending in 2005. To complete the process of bringing peace to the Middle East, Syria and Israel must reach an agreement on Israel's withdrawal to the borders of 1967. A decade ago, the United Nations Conference on Climate and Development, held at Rio in 1992, gave us Agenda 21, which contains pertinent recommendations for lessening our wasteful consumer habits, protecting the atmosphere and the oceans, promoting sustainable agriculture and combating poverty. The subsequent thematic conferences further strengthened and broadened those recommendations, which have led to the promises set out in the Millennium Declaration, particularly on alleviating endemic and severe poverty. The goals, targets, commitments and deadlines for reducing poverty provide a new, decisive impetus. The recent World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, made important and significant progress on crucial issues facing humankind today. All those demonstrations of goodwill, however, need to be backed by concrete action. Speaking on behalf of the European Union during this General Assembly debate, the Prime Minister of Denmark expressed that sentiment: “At Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg, we reached consensus on what needs to be done. But knowing what has to be done is not enough. As world leaders, we must see that it is done”. (A/57/PV.2) In an increasingly demanding world, more and more references are made to good governance, investment in human capital and economic freedom as conditions for developing countries to qualify for development assistance. For its part, Africa has acknowledged to its partners the need to enhance the continent's responsibility in all areas of concern, including peace, stability, democracy, human rights and development. Through the New Partnership for Africa's Development, Africa has shown that it is able to shoulder greater collective responsibility in resolving its conflicts and in its development. In return, Africa keenly hopes that the financial constraints that have seriously hindered development and human dignity will be duly taken into account by our partners. The issue of HIV/AIDS is one of the major concerns of our continent. More than 30 million people are infected in the world, and 75 per cent of those are Africans. The impact on development is disastrous. Life expectancy has decreased in some countries. Remarks made by the Executive Director of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS are very clear: “If people are not alive, if people are not healthy — the people who are supposed to bring us sustainable development — then it won't happen. AIDS is a major crisis of human resources.” Based on the outcome of the peace and reconciliation conference held at Arta, Djibouti, our subregional organization, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), is working to organize a conference to bring together the national transition Government and other parties in Somalia — the regional administrations, factions and groups that opted to stay away from that historic meeting. The front-line States, Djibouti, Ethiopia and Kenya, were mandated by the Ninth IGAD Summit of Heads of State and Government, held in January, to bring all of the components together with a view to completing the Arta process and thus paving the way for the emergence of a broad-based Government. Much has been accomplished, but it is fair to state that an enormous amount remains to be done. The Republic of Djibouti believes that a realistic road map, consistent with current thinking is a capital 14 necessity. The majority view of the international community — including the United Nations, the African Union, the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, IGAD and the European Union — is that the Arta peace process remains the most viable basis for peace and national reconciliation in Somalia. There has been a willingness to complete, without preconditions, the Arta peace and reconciliation process. Without ambiguity, the international community has consistently called for dialogue involving the national transition Government and the other parties, in a spirit of mutual respect and tolerance, with a view to establishing an inclusive Government in Somalia based on power sharing through a democratic process. Those are cardinal principles that should keep us on the right path. We cannot permit ourselves to stray from them. Decisions related to the maintenance of international peace and security lie with the Security Council, which, despite the exponential increase of United Nations membership over the past three decades, has singularly remained an unrepresentative body. If confidence is to be placed in its decisions, there must also be an expansion in both the permanent and the non-permanent member categories, giving both developed and developing countries the opportunity to become permanent members. The Working Group charged with studying that issue has thus far failed to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion, and we see no clear prospect of the impasse being broken soon. More objectivity and clarity of vision are required in order to bring about that vital necessity. Over the past decades, the people of the Horn of Africa have had their share of difficulties and suffering, and we are anxious to see peace, development and a reduction in conflict. For its part, my country, the Republic of Djibouti, is firmly convinced of the merit of good-neighbourly relations, cooperation and the creation of opportunities for the benefit of our peoples. We are resolutely committed to work hand in hand with our international partners in general, and with our friends in the region in particular, to resolve all outstanding issues that compromise trust and harmony. ﻿The smoke at ground zero, only a few blocks away from here, has cleared. But the empty space where the twin towers once stood continues to send shivers throughout the world. The unspeakable events that occurred a year ago have become engraved in our collective memory. What occurred here was an unprecedented and direct attack on universal values: values such as mutual respect, such as tolerance, such as the rule of law — values that form the very basis of the United Nations. Over the past year, the world community has proven its determination to defy terrorism. Today, the Netherlands not only reiterates its attachment to these values but also underlines a responsibility, both individual and collective, for upholding and protecting them. And that responsibility calls for a real commitment. Religions, races and traditions make our world colourful and diverse. But underneath our different feathers, we share a common skin: principles we all adhere to — or should adhere to — regardless of our religious beliefs or race. Mutual respect, the rule of law, freedom of speech and religion are among the most important ones. We cannot, however, confine ourselves to merely restating these principles. Without real commitment they would quickly evaporate and thus become empty words. It goes without saying that the Netherlands is fully committed: it is a dedicated international partner, both out of choice and out of necessity, in the United Nations, the European Union, NATO and other organizations, or in common endeavours such as the World Summit on Sustainable Development. The Netherlands will continue to dedicate 0.8 per cent of its annual gross domestic product to development cooperation and urges others to do the same. Behind that commitment is the unshakeable belief that no country can hope to succeed on its own in whatever policy area. In this respect we take to heart the wise words of Secretary-General Kofi Annan: “Even the most powerful countries know that they need to work with others, in multilateral institutions, to achieve their aims” (A/57/PV.2). We therefore also welcome the United States decision, announced from this rostrum by President Bush, to return to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). The Netherlands not only feels an individual responsibility for the defence of universal values, but a shared responsibility as well. Let me elaborate on this today in relation to four key areas of concern: the development of the African continent, uncontrolled migration, the continuing threat of terrorism and the situation in the Middle East. Africa continues its struggle towards development and prosperity. It cannot and must not do so all by itself. We all share a responsibility for eradicating poverty and enhancing Africa's global integration. Too often the African continent is associated only with misery and instability. In reality the number of conflicts in or between African countries has decreased. The creation of the African Union, and the New Partnership for Africa's Development, testify to the continent's own commitment. The Netherlands very 15 much welcomes this acknowledgement by African leaders of their own responsibility for building a prosperous and peaceful continent. For us, this is essential for adding our own efforts and resources to achieve that objective. It also means that African leaders, like all of us, can be held accountable for their governance and policies, their performance in the field of human rights and their respect for the rule of law. In partnership with African countries the Netherlands will continue to do its share in providing the necessary resources. For us, development cooperation is not just providing money, but also a policy integrating the promotion of good governance, security and stability. Is the world to assist in alleviating the effects of natural disasters when in fact they are, at least in part, man-made? Responsibility also extends to the private sector, particularly when it comes to fighting the disease that undermines all efforts at development: HIV/AIDS. However, for the fight against AIDS to be successful, it needs to be fully endorsed by African Governments. That means: acknowledgement of the problem and its causes, an open discussion of possible strategies and addressing its consequences for society. Africa concerns us all. Its problems affect us all. Poverty, conflict and violations of human rights contribute to an ever-increasing migration. This phenomenon is, however, by no means unique for the African continent. We need to deal with it effectively, regardless of whether we represent countries of origin, countries of transit or those of destination. Migration is robbing countries of origin of a vitally important resource: human capital. For neighbouring countries or countries of transit it can be a source of instability. For countries of destination, it often creates problems of integration. Here again, common values are at stake. Governments should do everything in their power to avoid people having no other choice than fleeing home. The number one priority is addressing the underlying causes of uncontrolled migration. In the meantime, we need to support the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), which is stretched to its limits dealing with a problem for which it was not devised. The Netherlands welcomes UNHCR's efforts to establish and implement an integrated policy aimed at the repatriation of refugees, coupled with their re- integration, rehabilitation and reconstruction. Obviously, these efforts have to be dovetailed with those of other United Nations agencies active in those areas. It is precisely through such an integrated approach that we can hope to achieve results. UNHCR's mix of policy areas obviously has to be complemented by that of security. That is one of the reasons why the Netherlands is involved in peacekeeping or similar operations in Bosnia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) and Afghanistan. Security is the quintessential consideration for those who are to return to their homes. Without security, resettlement and recovery remain pious wishes. Money spent on security is money well spent. In the year following 11 September 2001 the international community has effectively taken its responsibility. Its joint efforts have focussed on bringing about more security and increased stability in Afghanistan. Much has been accomplished: a regime hostile both to the Afghan people and to our commonly shared values has been ousted. Subsequently, our collective efforts have helped establish an elected Government and begin the reconstruction of a disrupted society. There can be no leniency towards countries that reject universal values, because a country that rejects tolerance, endorses intolerance. A country that does not guarantee the rule of law invites anarchy and injustice. The international community must help countries that are unable to do so themselves. It must try to persuade those that are uncooperative and it must be ready, if necessary, to act against those that are unwilling. The terrorist attacks have also shown that religion, for some, unfortunately, is a source of inspiration not for good, but for destructive purposes. The hijacking of planes should not result in the hijacking of an entire religion. Proper education, freedom of opinion and speech, secular or representative government can help contain religious extremism. Here again, we have a collective as well as an individual responsibility for upholding and protecting common values. What we need is a dialogue between countries, civilizations and religions. But we also need action to go after the sources of religious extremism. 16 That same commitment leaves us no choice but to continue to work towards peace in the Middle East. The instability there, the lurking dangers of religious extremism and weapons of mass destruction require our joint dedication. The many different actors in the Middle East share a duty to restrain violence and curtail extremism. Stability in the region is an indivisible interest, not only for the region itself but far beyond. The countries in the region have prime responsibility for ensuring that their citizens can live in freedom and an environment of tolerance and respect. But the international community has a role to play as well. Here in particular, we expect the Security Council to take its responsibilities to end the Iraqi regime's systematic non-compliance with a range of earlier resolutions. The inspectors should be allowed to return, yesterday rather than tomorrow. The credibility of the United Nations system is at stake. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict cannot be dealt with solely by concentrating on the fight against terrorism. Terrorism must stop, not only because of the human suffering it causes, but also because it is utterly counterproductive. The Palestinian people should ask themselves where this violence has got them. On the other hand, Israel cannot defer indefinitely answering the question as to when and how it is to live side by side with a Palestinian neighbour. Finding a solution again requires true commitment from all parties concerned and a dialogue across regional, religious and other borders. That involves us all. In conclusion, since we share values, we share responsibility for upholding them. That should determine our commitment to addressing the problems that I mentioned. Our commonly held values should guide our dealings with each other — between individuals as well as between countries. It is only when we acknowledge what we have in common that we can find the strength to overcome our differences. If there is one thing that our presence here, one year after 11 September 2001, makes clear, it is this: our belief in freedom and tolerance is unshakeable, and so is our commitment to uphold them.  ﻿I would like to congratulate my friend Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly and to wish him success. I also thank the Secretary-General for his leadership and his dedication to right what is wrong and to light the lamps of hope. The eleventh of September gave rise to a new world. We find ourselves facing a new confrontation: borderless, merciless, indiscriminate and inhumane. The target this time was the United States — a United States that in the past helped so many nations defend their freedoms and their liberty. Now the United States has been challenged again to defend our freedom by protecting its own and to safeguard our lives by securing its own. The attack on the World Trade Center precipitated a new division in our epoch and in the years to come — a divide created by groups that preach and cause death and agony. On the wrong side of the divide are those who are trying to destroy the free world, which is diversified and heterogeneous, cherishing the right to every thought and religion as well as the principle that every human being has the right to be different and yet to prosper and live in security. 10 The front from Bin Laden to Saddam Hussein is a menace to us all. It will not enable peace, nor will it permit freedom — for all people or for their own people. In countries that harbour terror, women are discriminated against, men are oppressed, civil and human rights are violated, and the poor cannot escape from their poverty They force us to defend our inalienable right to look ahead with hope. They imposed on us a war of self-defence — the defence of pluralism and of the promise of science. They reject the incredible technologies that may carry us from the limits of land to the discovery of uncharted provinces. The culture of death forces us to defend the culture of life, to win battles that we did not initiate, to triumph in this uninvited war. We never imagined that it could be dangerous to walk our streets, to fly our skies, to breathe the air or to drink the water. We cannot agree to this. We cannot allow dark forces — which, as we are aware, could destroy the lives of innocent people on a whim — to possess weapons of mass destruction. We shall not turn our lives into a series of sleepless nights and nightmarish days. We do not have the right to ignore the danger. We do not have the option to postpone it; it is imminent. We have to win as soon as possible. Terror is destined to lose. It will be defeated because it carries no hope. It respects neither human beings nor the values of humanity. Science and technology made the economy global, and science and technology globalized terror as well. Now strategy also is globalized, because ballistic ranges have replaced geographic distances, because non-conventional warheads have replaced measurable explosives, because terrorism transcends frontiers and fronts. Terrorists do not respect the rule of law. They do not answer to independent judges or relate to elected leaders. They mock international lines. They destroy universal norms. They shed blood. They introduced dullness and stopped affluence. Nothing is to be expected from them but death. Terror creates poverty more than poverty creates terror. Terror leads to backwardness. We have to offer the economic potential to open prospects and horizons for all nations, poor and rich. New opportunities can bring enfranchisement. We have to close ranks to prevent distorted dreams from becoming a raging typhoon that reaches all four corners of the globe. We have experienced in our own country the terrible effects of terrorism. Babies were shot in the arms of their mothers. People at prayer were killed while praying. Yes, it hurt us, but it did not change our goals. We mourn, but we did not bury peace. It harmed the Palestinians in the United States and in other countries. It prevented the occupation from ending. It introduced additional problems and did not solve a single existing problem. Alas, the Middle East is still replete with national, religious and territorial disputes. The land is small; the agony is great. But the real tragedy is that without terror we could already have resolved these disputes. Terror entrenched them. Terror changed priorities — security before policy. It affected resources — arming young men, for example, instead of desalinating vital water. If it continues, battlefields will create deserts of sorrow and days of darkness. Campuses of learning will be replaced by camps of violence. But this is neither a decree of heaven nor the verdict of man. It can, it should, it will be different. South Africa, Ireland, Yugoslavia and the Congo achieved more by talking than by shooting, more by dialogue than by dispute. We offered the Palestinians a comprehensive solution without the terror — a solution that was close to their national aspirations. We related to their desire to be free, to be equal, to be independent. We agreed that they would have their land in accordance with United Nations resolutions. But terror postponed their destiny. Terror postponed our willingness to end control over their lives. Smoking guns replaced the torches of peace. Now we are following the profound debate taking place among the Palestinians. We respect it, because debate is the beginning of democracy. When democracy prevails, peace undoubtedly will arrive. The Fatah organization apparently issued a call that contains some new approaches. I shall quote one of them: “We will build an independent State of Palestine and a political system in accordance with the principles of democracy, the rule of law, with an independent judicial system, separation of power, respect for human rights, civil liberties and a market economy.” We look upon these words as the dawn of a different season; we hope that it is spring. Reducing violence will shorten political distances. Political horizons are, in my judgement, within reach. Israel accepts President Bush's vision. That vision is supported by the Quartet; it is endorsed by Arab countries; it outlines a political goal and a timetable. It can be considered as both a road map and a calendar. What is needed now are wheels to propel the vehicles of peace. An economic wheel is needed in order for us to move to a global market economy that leads to science-based industry. A market economy can open gates and skies. An ecological wheel is needed to let air and water flow cleanly. Pollution is not national; we have to work together to control it. Ecology has changed history. In the past, bloodshed was about real estate, and real estate created divisions, demarcation and, unfortunately, wars as well. In our era, the battle is not for real estate but for air, for water and for energy; it is about the fertility of the land, rather than its size. “Non-real” estate is not marked, nor can it be divided. Either we respect it unanimously, or we will be victimized by its loss. Then there is the cultural wheel. Three civilizations were born in the Middle East. They were made manifest in the Bible, in the New Testament and in the Koran. We read them in different languages, yet we pray to the same heavens. The descendants of Abraham should behave like a family — with tolerance and solidarity. Spiritual leaders should pray for peace, but they also need to preach it, call upon it and contribute to it. The political wheel should not rotate in the same misguided orbit as in the past. We have been through five wars in five decades — Palestinians, Egyptians and Jordanians lost generations of young people. We paid heavily with young blood as a result of three terror campaigns. The time has come to comprehend that the real triumph is in the harvest of peace, not in the seeds of another war. When we replace the war maps with peace maps, we will discover that the differences were minimal. The wars were appalling. We shall see that the promised land could have become the land of promise a long time ago. Without wars, our region will be able to bloom again. We can separate politically into two States and coordinate one economy. That will enable us to take advantage of the exceptional invitation that came from both the United States and a united Europe to partake in their economic opportunities. Tourism can flourish when terrorism has ended. Islands of high-tech excellence can be established. Millions of trees can be planted to produce a new climate. We can make green our arid lands. We can become contributors, not dependants. The call of the future cannot be harmonized with the voices of the past. Only new solutions can evoke a grandeur equal to the past. We do not have the right to suspend it in the face of our children. Young Israelis and young Palestinians are entitled to a new life — a life of their own. While fighting terror, let us not fight people. While seeking freedom, let us not extend subjugation. I should like to direct a comment to Syria. The same principle that enabled us both to participate in the Madrid conference a decade ago is still valid. A word to Lebanon: Israel is committed to the territorial integrity of Lebanon. Israel respects its need for real political independence. Lebanon should not permit Hezbollah to destroy its own country. Hezbollah is not a party, it is a dangerous agenda. Lebanon should immediately free Israeli prisoners and prisoners of war. The people of the Middle East should let bygones be bygones. Let us return to our traditions, where prophets, not terrorists, told the future. Let us return to our landscape, where the blue skies did not surrender to the heavy clouds of despair; to a time when justice promised equal opportunities for individuals and for nations. Let us join, together, the march of mankind towards new discoveries that will make life more purposeful and may bring security to posterity. We were born in the cradles of hope, not in the tombs of despair. We guard our spiritual heritage, and it is not antithetical to building a new Middle East. The world is new. I should like to conclude with an old verse from our scriptures: “The Lord led Adam through the Garden of Eden and said to him, ‘All I created, I created for you. Beware lest you spoil and destroy my world, for if you spoil it, there is no one to repair it after you'.” We are here to repair.  ﻿It is my pleasure to join with preceding speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. Barbados pledges its fullest cooperation in the year ahead. I also take this opportunity to convey our deepest appreciation to Mr. Han Seung-soo for his leadership during a very challenging fifty-sixth session. We, too, wish to welcome the Swiss Confederation and look forward to the Democratic Republic of Timor- Leste's joining this family of nations. The Preamble to the Charter of this Organization expresses in the simplest yet most eloquent of terms the essential goals of multilateralism. We know its every phrase and recognize its solemn commitment “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom” as well as “to practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours and to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security”. These goals remain as relevant today, and yet, in many ways, as painfully elusive as they were in 1945. In January 2001, the international community ushered in a new century with the highest of expectations for the successful implementation of the millennium development goals, which we had just adopted. We were resolved to work with renewed vigour to eradicate poverty and hunger, fight the scourge of HIV/AIDS and disease, raise the level of human development and bring an end to debilitating economic and social injustices. Tragically, the events 29 of 11 September 2001 eclipsed our millennium vision and brutally reshaped the global agenda. In the intervening year, we have been forced to re-examine our traditional notions of security and to come to terms with the reality of our growing political and economic interdependence. For no single nation can hope to have all the answers to the complex issues that confront us and no lasting solutions are possible except through collective effort. If nothing else, the lessons of 11 September have served to reinforce the value of multilateralism. For the past several years, Barbados has argued for a redefinition of the concept of security to embrace the new and non-traditional threats that have the greatest potential to cause harm to our citizens, destabilize our societies and erode the basic institutions of governance. At the hemispheric level, we promoted dialogue on these issues among foreign ministers of the Organization of American States at our recent General Assembly session in Barbados, where we adopted the Declaration of Bridgetown on the multidimensional approach to hemispheric security. We believe that this approach to security is equally valid in the wider international context. As we are well aware, threats to world peace are no longer exclusively found in military conflict between opposing countries, where the enemy is recognized and a state of war formally declared. Today's greatest sources of instability and threats to national, regional and international security lie in areas where the enemies are often unidentified non-State actors with global reach. Terrorism is but one of those insidious new elements. We are equally alarmed by the growing danger posed to democratic societies and Governments by the modern transnational phenomena of narco-trafficking, organized crime, money- laundering, corruption and illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons. We are also aware of the potential for grave economic and social dislocation posed by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, environmental degradation and ecological and natural disasters. In addition, the inequitable application of the benefits of trade liberalization has created the very real prospect of increasing poverty and further economic disenfranchisement for the smallest and most vulnerable countries in the developing world. Under the circumstances, we have little choice but to persist in the struggle to gain international acceptance for our demands for special and differential treatment to prepare our small economies to meet the challenges of globalization. Modern threats to international peace and security constrain the capacity for political and economic development and social progress. All nations share in the responsibility to respond to those threats, but we can only do so successfully through collective strategies, which address all aspects of the problem simultaneously. Diversion of resources and attention from the development agenda to the fight against terrorism cannot produce lasting results. As Dr. Brundtland warned in 1992, our global village may yet become a global jungle if States adopt unilateral measures to combat global problems. Small developing countries are beset daily by fundamental challenges to their economic sustainability. From our perspective, security has of necessity revolved around policies in support of social development, economic viability, good governance and the promotion of democracy. For us, military engagement is not an affordable option. For Barbados, as for all small States, the doctrine of non-intervention is of paramount importance for our survival. Pre-emptive unilateral action, no matter what the apparent cause, is a precedent that occasions in us the gravest discomfort. It is, therefore, vital that, at this dangerous and uncertain juncture in world affairs, we reaffirm our commitment to multilateralism and to the pre-eminent role of the United Nations in seeking to impose responsible behaviour through diplomacy and dialogue rather than through the use of force. In response to the events of 11 September and to the mandates of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), Barbados has deployed considerable financial and human resources to the anti-terrorism effort. In May this year, our Parliament adopted comprehensive domestic legislation, which entailed an amendment to our Constitution, to criminalize acts of terrorism and support or financing for such acts. Yesterday I deposited with the United Nations Secretariat the relevant instruments to make Barbados a party to the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings and the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. We have been prompt and responsible in fulfilling our obligations to the international community in that regard, despite the heavy financial strain that has placed on our national economy, already deeply 30 affected by the adverse impact of 11 September on its major productive sectors — tourism and financial services. As I reminded the General Assembly last year, small countries like my own are not part of the problem, but we are committed to being part of the solution, in circumstances that place a disproportionate burden on our financial, human and administrative resources, already struggling to respond to the global economic recession. Regrettably, that burden has been further exacerbated by the words and actions of some lawmakers who now seek, through misguided zeal, to brand the operations of financial services centres, even the most transparent and well regulated, such as the Barbados regime, as havens for corporate tax evasion and for the laundering of terrorist assets. It is important to emphasize that the Barbados jurisdiction is more transparent and better regulated than many in the developed world, and certainly no less so than what obtains in the states of Delaware and Vermont, among others. My country fully intends to defend its reputation against those renewed, unwarranted, duplicitous and discriminatory attacks. In this post-11 September, post-Doha, post-Enron world, many of the assumptions about peace and progress in a globalized economy have been challenged. We have entered a prolonged international recession, whose consequences have impacted on all countries. It is trying times such as these that force policy makers at the national level to simplify, refocus and prioritize. It is opportune for us to undertake a similar exercise in respect of the United Nations. We must return this Organization to its basic mandate, and seek to have its energies and focus redirected towards substantive action in the twin areas of peace and development. The unique attributes of the United Nations and its multilateral structure can serve to build consensus and promote cooperation in the search for solutions to the most pressing problems affecting human security. The international summits and global conferences, which have proliferated over the last decade, have been successful in mobilizing Governments and, to a greater extent, civil society, as well as sensitizing people to the most compelling development issues facing the planet. Although they have created awareness and raised expectations, they have not delivered with respect to implementation, and most of their fiercely negotiated plans of action remain under-funded and under-executed. The promises and pledges of the past 15 years have not been fulfilled. It is high time that we review the utility of those costly processes and seek simpler, more effective structures to carry forward our development agenda. The dwindling resources available for developmental programmes are better used for development itself than for scripted dialogue to discuss the process of development. Fundamental changes are needed in the way that development is financed, and in the structure, operation and coherence of the global financial architecture. Monterrey must not become just another failed process. Barbados welcomed recognition by the World Summit on Sustainable Development of the vulnerability and sustainable development challenges of small island developing States, and looks forward to a frank, comprehensive review of the implementation of the Barbados Plan of Action in Mauritius in 2004. The Summit made a commitment to the sustainable management of ocean space, and it is in this vein that Barbados will continue to work towards achieving international recognition of the Caribbean Sea as a “special area” in the context of sustainable development. For Barbados, our greatest resource lies in the creativity and resilience of our people. We are persuaded that the betterment of the human condition is the fundamental objective of economic progress. The HIV/AIDS pandemic rates with terrorism and narco- trafficking as one of the major new and emerging threats to human security. According to information provided by the Pan American Health Organization, there are currently 2.8 million people living with HIV/AIDS in the Americas. Of that number, 420,000 live in the wider Caribbean, accounting for over 2 per cent of its adult population. In response to the international Declaration of Commitment, Barbados has established a target of a 50 per cent reduction in the HIV/AIDS mortality rate and in the incidence of the disease over the next three years. We are also working towards the enactment of appropriate anti- discriminatory legislation by 2006. Our National Commission continues to support the Pan-Caribbean Partnership against HIV/AIDS, which is coordinated by the Caribbean Community Secretariat. Barbados is one of four English-speaking Caribbean countries selected to participate in the Caribbean HIV/AIDS Regional Training Initiative. The World Bank, of 31 whose programmes Barbados is a graduate, made special provisions for the securing of a $15.1 million loan to procure the highly active anti-retroviral therapy programme for HIV-positive Barbadians, free of cost at point of delivery. Barbados' commitment to the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter has been unwavering over its three and a half decades of membership in this Organization. We have paid our contributions faithfully and have consistently supported the Organization's efforts to promote and protect human rights, to eradicate poverty and to cultivate a global culture of peace. A tangible demonstration of that commitment was made on 2 January of this year, when the Prime Minister of Barbados had the honour of officially handing over to the United Nations Secretary-General, for the exclusive use of the United Nations agencies operating in the Eastern Caribbean, a custom-designed common premises building, now known as United Nations House. Secretary-General Annan's personal presence in Barbados for the inauguration ceremony was interpreted by Prime Minister Arthur as a clear expression of his understanding that every part of the United Nations family matters and that the contribution of the small States of the Caribbean to the objectives of the Organization is not without significance. For in the words of the Secretary-General, small States have become the backbone of the Organization in terms of their support and encouragement for the multilateral process. The principles which guarantee a better quality of life for all peoples lie within our Charter. The global landscape has undergone tremendous change in the last 57 years, but the ideals of the Charter are indelible. Today we revisit this place to recommit to a process which, admittedly, is not perfect, but it is all that stands between us and anarchy. It is still our greatest hope for peace, development and social justice. In our generation, we cannot be expected to complete the monumental task which lies before us, but neither are we at liberty to abstain from it.﻿I should like at the outset to join other speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- seventh session. We are fully confident that, under your able leadership, the work of the General Assembly will further advance the cause of international cooperation in the interests of humankind. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Swiss Confederation, which has become the one hundred and ninetieth Member of our world Organization. I am also pleased to extend a warm welcome to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, which will soon be joining our global Organization. I believe that we are living in a fragile and fast- changing world, a world of uncertainties and turbulence that has been seriously threatened by terrorism, the negative aspects of globalization, the rising effects of global warming and the impact of climate change. The effects of these rising forces underline our common vulnerability and recall the urgent need for more effective sustainable development in the world, without which the survival of humanity may be jeopardized. I therefore believe that the common challenge we face today is perhaps the lack of collective wisdom and political will to make our world a better place for all, including future generations. The recent World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg rightly discussed the fundamental issues confronting humanity: climate change, global sustainable development and poverty. The dramatic appeal made by many leaders of the world at that Summit must be taken very seriously as an important message about the need to save the Earth from destruction and to reverse the global trends of widening development gaps, increasing poverty and environmental destruction. With respect to the environment, I believe that humanity as a whole is now confronting severe global warming, unprecedented flooding and the increasingly disastrous effects of greenhouse gases. This is no longer just a scientific theory, but a living reality. For the first time this year, we have experienced mega- floods and serious droughts across continents — from Asia to Europe, from Africa to South America — that have wrought immense destruction and cost billions of dollars. We must seek to reverse these negative trends for the survival of humanity. In this regard, I think that we should all welcome and strongly support the bold message of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, the ultimate goal of which was to ensure the survival of humanity and to fight poverty and environmental destruction. I also wish to recall the 2000 Millennium Declaration, which centred on fighting poverty, combating HIV/AIDS, ensuring sustainable development and forging a common partnership for development. In the same vein, the United Nations International Conference on Financing for Development, held in March in Monterrey, Mexico, called on the developed countries to provide greater assistance to the least developed. Without adequate resources, it will be difficult for the least developed countries to break out of the vicious cycle of poverty and to catch up with the current process of globalization. I believe that this is a question not of generosity, but of human dignity and of sharing the wealth of the world in which we all live in the most equitable way. (spoke in English) As the world continues to be shaped by the forces of globalization, we are witnessing growing disparities and development gaps between the haves and have- nots. As a double-edged sword, globalization could either help to propel humanity as a whole to greater prosperity or further marginalize the poor. I believe that reducing poverty could contribute to some extent to the fight against terrorism and effectively manage the growth of transnational issues, such as human trafficking and the prevalent HIV/AIDS epidemic. In this context, the Cambodian Government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Samdech Hun Sen, has made the fight against poverty a top priority of its strategy. In addition, human rights and democracy in Cambodia have been further strengthened. In February this year, Cambodia for the first time organized free and fair local elections as part of its decentralization policy and its efforts to strengthen grass-roots democracy. Moreover, Cambodia remains committed to contributing actively towards the realization of integration of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), so 13 that ASEAN may move forward in a collective spirit and play its constructive role in deepening East Asian cooperation as a whole. In this regard, the forthcoming Greater Mekong subregion and ASEAN summits in Phnom Penh in early November will be important venues for ASEAN leaders to further promote ASEAN integration and build closer cooperation in East Asia, encompassing the 10 nations of South-East Asia, China, Japan and the Republic of Korea. On regional issues that concern the whole international community, I wish to raise the Middle East conflict first. I believe that the international community has to help find a viable solution which could bring lasting peace to the region. Cambodia strongly believes that violence in any form is not a solution. On the contrary, violence provokes more violence. The Palestinian people have an inalienable right to dispose of their own State, living in peace with Israel. I think that both sides must have the wisdom to understand that they are condemned to living side by side forever. Therefore, it is better for both sides to remain at peace with each other than to engage in endless war. Secondly, with regard to the Iraqi situation, Cambodia believes that Iraq's acceptance of the return of United Nations weapons inspectors is an important step that will certainly contribute to defusing the situation in the region. Thirdly, on the Kashmir problem, I believe that we need to avoid the escalation of that conflict. If not properly managed, the Kashmir conflict could seriously escalate and thus threaten regional peace and security not only in South Asia, but also in South-East Asia. We must do what we can to ensure that the terrorists cannot seize the opportunity of that conflict to further complicate the present situation. On a more optimistic note, I believe that the recent positive developments in the Korean peninsula — especially the resumption of North-South dialogue and the historic visit of Japanese Prime Minister Koizumi to Pyongyang — are significant milestones towards the normalization of the situation there. As far as the fight against terrorism is concerned, Cambodia has signed and is in the process of acceding to all 12 conventions related to the combat against terrorism. ASEAN, for its part, has been forceful and decisive in coming up with a number of initiatives and measures. The ASEAN leaders, at their Seventh Summit in Brunei in November 2001, adopted the ASEAN Declaration on Joint Action to Counter Terrorism. In addition, there have been a number of agreements and specific action plans that ASEAN and the ASEAN Regional Forum have put in place in order to tackle the threats of terrorism in our region. In July this year, ASEAN and the United States signed an anti- terrorism declaration as a framework for more cooperation to prevent and combat global terrorism. Now, I wish to address the issue of reforming the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, which I believe we should not simply ignore or take a status quo approach to. I believe that the United Nations cannot continue to work in its current modus operandi if we want to further improve this important global institution and to have it truly reflect the needs and political realities of the world in the twenty-first century, to which it should be adapted as soon as possible. Any attempt to further delay United Nations reform, in my view, will only undermine the credibility of this universal institution. Accordingly, I wish to reiterate Cambodia's call for the expansion of the Security Council to include other new members. In that regard, Cambodia would support Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany and India as new permanent members of the Security Council, taking into account the growing political and economic roles of those countries in world affairs. In conclusion, I wish to reiterate that peace, stability and poverty are all interrelated and affect all peoples and nations of the planet. From that point of view, it is essential that we continue to work together to build a caring community of nations, where the development gap between the developed and the developing countries is reduced, the threat of terrorism is totally eliminated, the menace of the HIV/AIDS pandemic is curbed, poverty is alleviated and global warming is kept in check. That will be possible only by building better cooperation and closer partnership, fostering mutual respect, cultivating greater tolerance and enhancing the spirit of a real United Nations for all. I strongly believe that we can do that through collective will and strong determination, as well as better ethics and moral responsibility, which will help 14 us make a better world for all peoples in the twenty- first century. ﻿The preservation of international peace and security, the fight against terrorism in all its forms, the eradication of poverty throughout the world, the promotion of sustainable development and the establishment of a more just and more human international order are the challenges that we must strive to meet, primarily through the irreplaceable framework of the United Nations. We are meeting once again to find new perspectives in the light of the evolving international situation in order to provide new impetus to our actions by coming together around common objectives. Before continuing my statement, allow me, on behalf of the delegation of Togo and on my own behalf, to address our warmest congratulations to Mr. Kavan on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. His election to that high post is a tribute not only to him personally, but also to his great and beautiful country. I assure him of the fullest cooperation of my country towards the success of his mission. I also take this opportunity to convey to his predecessor our full gratitude for the effective way in which he led the work of the previous session. To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who works tirelessly to strengthen peace and security throughout the world, we reiterate our high appreciation of his commitment and dedication. I congratulate Switzerland and Timor-Leste on their admission into the great United Nations family. Democracy, respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights and good governance are factors in development and peace and values to which Togo has long adhered and to which we are deeply attached. It is in the spirit that we must consider the political reforms that were launched 15 years ago at the initiative of our Head of State. These reforms seek to build a peaceful democracy based on the widest possible national consensus and rooted in the historical and socio- cultural realities of our country. Today, our efforts have led to the establishment and effective operation of almost all the institutions called for in the Constitution of the Fourth Republic, to the restoration of State authority and security and to the revitalization of the national economy. We have achieved these results despite the difficulties that hindered the process of democratization as a result of a poorly begun transition, and despite all kinds of manoeuvres and obstacles constantly set up by an unhelpful opposition. Priority has been placed above all on the continuation of political reforms to ensure that they are undertaken in a climate of restored calm and ongoing concertation among all the political forces of our nation. It was in this context that, at the initiative of the Head of State, Mr. Gnassingbé Eyadema, we launched an inter-Togolese dialogue among all the country's principal political actors that led to the signing of a framework agreement in July 1999. The implementation of that agreement allowed the establishment of a dialogue between the Government and the opposition on such essential political questions as the organizational modalities of early legislative elections. It was the will of the Head of State and of the Government to ensure that these elections, open to all political groups without exception, should take place in a climate of peace and security, with the necessary guarantees of transparency and legality. It is also our aim that, at the completion of this electoral process, a new phase should begin in our country's political life 7 with the revitalization of a National Assembly in which political groups that wish to be represented can be so. All of these achievements, which strengthen political pluralism in Togo, deserve the support and encouragement of our partners, particularly those in Europe, with a view to normalizing our relations of cooperation. Unfortunately, that has not been the case. As I stressed a year ago from this very rostrum, the people of Togo do not deserve the treatment they have received. It is now clear that the rash imposition of sanctions as a means of political pressure entails limits beyond which such measures become ineffective and run counter to morality and to the duty of international solidarity. I wish once again to launch an urgent appeal for the resumption of the cooperation that Togo has a right to expect from the international community as an act of solidarity, support and encouragement for the indisputable efforts that have been made by my Government towards the development of the country and the consolidation of the bases of our democracy in a climate of peace, stability and national harmony. It is well known that we in Togo have made peace and national security our credo, given that no undertaking for sustainable development can be successfully carried out if the recourse to violence prevails over dialogue, concertation and mutual respect and if the world continues to face such terrorist acts as the tragedy of 11 September 2001. Those terrible events, which are still vivid in our minds, require us, individually and collectively, to respond appropriately to the threats represented by terrorism. Togo, which has been a repeated victim of terrorist aggression, understands the importance of the challenge and spares no effort in assuming its share of the responsibility in this struggle. We must here welcome the speed with which the United Nations has reacted to this problem and contributed to the emergence of an acute awareness of the phenomenon and the dangers it entails for all mankind. Today, as was the case a year ago, it is imperative that we recognize the urgency and need to pursue this campaign. It is clear that we must seek together the factors that will contribute to maintaining peace in all its dimensions. Yes, crises and armed conflicts still afflict the world, unfortunately, in Africa and elsewhere. While it may be true that some glimmers of hope have emerged in Africa with the resolution of the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea and with respect to the settlement of other crises, the situation remains alarming. It is alarming in the Great Lakes region and the Mano River region, which is again experiencing a genuine security problem, with major humanitarian consequences. Whether we are talking about the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Mano river region, the Sudan, Somalia or any other country affected by crises, we reaffirm that only dialogue and negotiation can lead to peace and ensure the lasting settlement of disputes. We therefore urge the parties to such crises and armed conflicts to be more courageous and demonstrate greater political will so as to give peace a chance through negotiating processes already under way and by respecting and effectively implementing the provisions of agreements that have already been signed. In this respect, we welcome the recent announcement of the withdrawal, beginning next week, of Rwandan troops from the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and we hope that the implementation of this decision will strengthen the process under way. The situation in the Middle East also remains worrying. We must find a solution to the vicious circle of violence — violence breeding violence. Togo has always stressed that violence can lead only to bitterness and resentment and that it further perpetuates violence. This cannot be said enough: dialogue and negotiation are the only means that should be used to settle disputes. We therefore strongly urge both Palestinians and Israelis to end the vicious circle of violence and immediately take up negotiations with a view to achieving a just, comprehensive and final settlement of the question of Palestine, which is at the heart of the conflict in the Middle East. Of course, such a settlement would require recognition of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to a viable Palestinian State. But it would also entail the recognition of the equally legitimate rights of the Israeli people to live in peace and complete security within internationally recognized borders. This session began just a few days after the conclusion of the World Summit on Sustainable 8 Development, at which the international community stressed more than ever before the need to protect humankind and the natural world. Now more than ever we must protect humankind in its multifaceted character and the environment in all of its variety. I am pleased to note, too, that this session of the General Assembly is taking place during a historic time for our continent of Africa. Indeed, two years ago, on 12 July 2000, at Lomé, Togo, African countries laid the groundwork for a new Africa by adopting, before the whole world, the Constitutive Act of the African Union. The African heads of State or Government solemnly launched the new continent-wide organization at Durban in July, thereby translating into reality their determination to shape a new destiny for Africa. Some might be tempted to say that, despite the establishment of the African Union, nothing decisive will be done and that the continent will still be trying to find itself while stagnating in underdevelopment. It is true that, given the current economic and social situation, such pessimism could be warranted. Indeed, our continent of Africa is still the principal victim of an economic order that is out of balance and unfair — one that all too often deprives it of the fruits of its own labour. Unstable commodity prices, yearly increases in the price of crucial capital goods, debt, limited access to the markets of industrialized countries for our finished and semi-finished goods and the competition with which our products have to contend as a result of the export subsidy policies of certain rich countries — policies that benefit their own industries — are seriously hampering the development of our countries. Today more than ever it is vital to ask how Africa can reconcile the repayment of its debt with the implementation of its economic growth and development goals. Turning the current situation around is a task that we must undertake through reflection and action. The establishment of a new structure — the African Union — marks a decisive turning point in the history of our continent, which, more than ever before, needs the invaluable support of the international community in carrying out its development programmes. We are aware that Africa cannot rise to the challenge of growth and development unless it becomes organized to mobilize and make the best use of its resources using external aid only as a complement to its own efforts. We earnestly hope that the consolidation of various subregional organizations for economic integration, together with the synergistic implementation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development, will provide Africa with the means to achieve its ambitions. In conclusion, I should like to stress that the new international context and the multidimensional nature of the problems to be faced mean that we must work with greater determination and solidarity within the United Nations in order to push back insecurity, poverty and misery. In this regard, we must consider providing this shared Organization with the wherewithal and the increased resources to enable it to achieve peace and economic and social development for our peoples. That is the price to be paid for the future of humankind. I earnestly hope that the United Nations will, more than ever before, become the ideal tool to implement our ideals of peace, justice, progress and liberty for the benefit of our peoples.  ﻿I would like, on behalf of the Government and the people of Thailand, to extend my heartfelt congratulations to you, Sir, upon your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I am confident that, under your able leadership and guidance, this session will build upon the momentum and efforts of previous endeavours and reach a fruitful conclusion. I also wish to commend your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, whose tireless efforts guided us through the past eventful year. We look forward to welcoming the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste to the United Nations. Thailand is honoured to have actively participated in the United Nations operations in East Timor from the very beginning. Thailand's role in East Timor was unique in linking the peacekeeping mission to development and poverty eradication. I would also like to congratulate Switzerland on becoming a new Member of the family of this world body. Switzerland is hardly a stranger to the United Nations system; its support has been long standing. I am certain that the two new Members will further contribute to the universality and the work of the United Nations. As we remember, one year on, the horrendous terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, we share the grief and painful awareness of the impact of that heinous crime on global security and stability. One year on, we are still witnessing the development of conflicts, threats of terrorism and the challenge of how to deal with errant members of the international community. Indeed, the post-11-September world must rely much more on the role of the multilateral mechanism to promote peace, security and prosperity in the international community. More than ever before, today's terrorism continues to be a threat to human security and global economic stability. As the Secretary-General so rightly said, that tragic incident and its repercussions required a broad, sustained and global response. Thailand fully endorses his call for the international community to use multilateral institutions effectively to respond to the global scourge of terrorism. Thailand condemns terrorism and supports all United Nations actions against it. Moreover, the Thai Government is determined to push ahead with the necessary steps, in terms of its domestic legislation and regulations, so as to enable Thailand to become a party to all the international conventions relating to terrorism. We are working closely with the Counter-Terrorism Committee to implement Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). There is to date no indication whatsoever that there is any trace of terrorist capability in Thailand. We are making sure that no terrorist activities or networks can be harboured in our territory. The Association of South-East Asian Nations and United States Joint Declaration for Cooperation to Combat International Terrorism also demonstrates our common and regional resolve to fight terrorism. Obviously we cannot take peace for granted. The uncontrolled spread of small arms and light weapons and the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction are growing threats to world peace and security. The indispensable role of the United Nations in maintaining international peace and security must gain support from every member of the community. In order to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and pave the way for their reduction and eventual elimination, the multilateral security system must be effectively complied with. In this regard, we urge Iraq to comply with the relevant Security Council resolutions unconditionally and unreservedly, in accordance with its responsibilities. At the same time, we are also convinced that diplomatic efforts, undertaken within the United Nations framework, are desirable and will be the most effective means of reaching a favourable solution and so preventing the escalation of this crisis. Therefore, while we view as a positive development yesterday's letter to the Secretary-General, undertaking to allow United Nations weapons inspectors back into Iraq, we, together with other nations, expect Iraq fully to live up to the solemn undertaking that it has given to the world body. While effective multilateral mechanisms are the key to the maintenance of international peace and security, it is also the responsibility of each and every member of the international community to bring about and uphold peace. It is also the responsibility of each and every State to ensure that peace, once restored, will last. In this regard, Thailand is honoured to be hosting the current peace negotiations between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, 19 being held from 16 to 18 September. We hope to facilitate the peace talks with a view to bringing a lasting solution to this longstanding conflict and to ending the suffering that has resulted. As part of the reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan, Thailand has pledged to share its experience and knowledge in the reduction of opium cultivation through the crop substitution programme under the renowned project sponsored by His Majesty the King. That is part of the global effort to sustain peace in Afghanistan, as the scourge of drugs threatens peace and stability. The current Thai Government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, is determined to see the Thai people enjoy the benefits of freedom from fear and want. Human security has therefore been declared one of the Government's most important policies. Thailand believes that we will be one of the first countries in the world to set up a ministry of human security for that specific purpose. The ministry is due to be inaugurated next month. Thailand is also proud to be one of the 13 members of the Human Security Network, whose work is well under way. The scourge of drugs deprives our people of both freedom from fear and freedom from want, and poverty remains a major threat to human security. Since taking up office early last year, the current Thai Government has waged war against drugs and poverty with the resolute determination to win. We are not doing it alone. Our partnerships to tackle the global threat of drugs partnerships formed within bilateral, regional and international cooperative frameworks, such as the United Nations International Drug Control Programme have been fruitful. An initiative of Thailand, the quadrilateral cooperation among China, Laos, Myanmar and Thailand to prevent and suppress the production and trafficking of drugs is making progress, particularly in combating the spread of methamphetamines. The leaders of our four countries will meet at an appropriate time to provide much- needed political impetus at the highest level. The issue of HIV/AIDS is another major transnational threat to human security. Thailand has forged partnerships with its neighbouring countries, particularly the greater Mekong subregion, as well as a partnership with related United Nations agencies and with the members of the Human Security Network to tackle this global epidemic. At the XV International Conference on AIDS, to be hosted by Thailand in 2004, we hope to share our experiences in addressing the multifaceted aspects of HIV/AIDS, namely, prevention, treatment, care and support, as well as research and development. Even if the war against poverty is Thailand's major priority, the eradication of poverty is not any country's exclusive agenda. Rather, it is an agenda for all mankind. The United Nations millennium development goals have rightly placed the interests and welfare of the people at the core of socio-economic development. Since their adoption, several events under the United Nations framework have taken place to ensure sustainable development. Our children must inherit the world in at least no worse a shape than it is in today, if not a better and more livable one. From Brussels to Doha and Monterrey to Johannesburg, the resolve and commitment of the international community to advance towards achieving the millennium development goals for sustainable development have been clearly mobilized. The Monterrey consensus has provided a road map for fostering more effective partnership and greater policy coherence amongst Governments and financial and trade institutions. The international trade and financial environment must be developed to better serve sustainable development. Greater market access for developing countries' exports forms part and parcel of making the Doha round a truly development round. The G8's decision to resist protectionist pressure is a positive step forward. Equally important is the role of foreign direct investment, which requires rechannelling in order not only to meet the development goals of the host country, but also to promote investors' corporate accountability and social responsibility. The World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg was, indeed, a historic event. Thailand gladly welcomes the adoption of the Political Declaration and the Plan of Implementation, particularly their emphasis on poverty reduction, which binds the three pillars of sustainable development. The Summit underscored a range of principles, such as self- help and common but differentiated responsibilities, to make sustainable development a reality for mankind. Enhanced coordination and coherence amongst 20 Governments, international organizations and other stakeholders are crucial to providing the necessary synergies in achieving our common goals. The principle of partnership as enunciated at Monterrey and echoed at the World Summit on Sustainable Development is being implemented. Thailand is proud to be cited as one of the concrete examples of countries that have succeeded in their coordination and partnership efforts in capacity- building. As a result of the tenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), held in Thailand in 2000, the International Institute for Trade and Development (ITD) has been established in Bangkok. ITD is a Thailand-UNCTAD partnership to enhance the productive capacity and trade-negotiating skills of developing countries as they prepare for the new round of global trade negotiations. Capacity-building is crucial if developing countries are to participate effectively in defending and advancing their interests both in bilateral and multilateral free-trade arrangements, where, increasingly, non-tariff barriers are often found in the guise of environmental measures. In this aspect, ITD can serve as a useful linkage between UNCTAD, the World Trade Organization and the United Nations Environment Programme for capacity-building in trade negotiation. Thailand urges Member States to consider the best use of this Thailand-UNCTAD Institute. As an item on the world agenda, poverty eradication can never succeed unless there are genuine efforts at the neighbour, regional and global levels. The Mekong subregion is another example of self-help and partnership among developing countries. The road map for opportunities to advance economic integration in that subregion is now taking shape. The commercial routes the routes of economic opportunities providing transportation linkages are being established with the partnership of donor countries and the Asian Development Bank. From East to West from Viet Nam, Laos and Thailand to Myanmar and India and from North to South from southern China, Myanmar and Laos to Thailand these road linkages are now the new lifelines for the future prosperity of the region. They will bring about access to markets, capital and knowledge for sustainable development. Based on the same principle of creating opportunities in the region for economic progress, Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra took the initiative, with the support and participation of 18 Asian nations, to turn Asia's rich diversity into collective strength by creating synergy from an Asia-wide partnership known as the Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD). Launched in June this year, with its original members ranging from the West to the North-East of the Asian continent and with its core principles of positive thinking, ACD is envisaged as an evolving, informal, non- institutionalized, open, inclusive and incremental process. ACD's strength is to build upon multiple layers of strategic partnerships in practical areas of cooperation, such as the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, tourism, transportation linkages, agriculture and poverty eradication. We hope that ACD will help enhance Asia's economic competitiveness, open up business opportunities and make Asia a stronger partner for both our developed and developing partners. After the success of its inaugural ministerial meeting in Cha-Am, Thailand, in June, Thailand will be host once more to the ACD meeting next year to move our cooperation forward. International and regional partnerships, as well as commitments to sustainable development, are not enough. They must be reinforced by partnerships and policies at the national level. The goals and methods contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation are being pursued as part of our development strategy. The present Thai Government is pursuing a development strategy of enhancing international competitiveness and domestic productivity through mobilizing both domestic and external sources of growth for balanced and sustainable development. This balanced development strategy has been inspired by His Majesty the King of Thailand's philosophy of sufficiency economy'. The main principle of this approach to development is adherence to a middle path at the level of the individual, families and communities. This involves strengthening the grass-roots economy to build its immunity against the adverse impact of global volatility, as well as to enhance its ability to benefit from the multilateral trading system. Thailand places people at the forefront of its development efforts. Their livelihood must entail human development and community participation. This Government is making progress in its programmes and 21 measures to improve the quality of life of the Thai people. They include the provision of health care for all, a three-year debt suspension for farmers, the establishment of microcredit facilities, such as the People's Bank, for small entrepreneurs, and the launching of a village and urban revolving fund to provide financial support for local initiatives. In enhancing human potential and innovation, 12 years of free education for all are guaranteed by our Constitution. This goes along well with the recent recommendation by the G8 Education Task Force on education in developing countries. As a result of lessons learned from past history, the Charter of the United Nations prescribes the multilateral structure of this institution as the best means to maintain international peace and security as well as to advance social and economic development and prosperity. It remains the tasks and duties of this institution and its Member States to continue performing to achieve the Charter objectives. Peace, however, cannot be enforced, but must be cultivated through tolerance and respect for each other. Prosperity, on the other hand, cannot be obtained without creating opportunities from the diverse strengths of each other. Those tasks and duties, therefore, do not merely involve the compliance by each Member State with the United Nations multilateral mechanism; they also include our forging cooperation and partnership at all levels among all stakeholders. For its part, Thailand remains firmly committed to achieving global peace and prosperity by working with other States regionally and universally within the United Nations framework. We have faith that, ultimately, through this multilateral institution we shall build the world best suited for us and our children to live peacefully and harmoniously. ﻿Mr. President, may I begin by congratulating you on your assumption of the presidency and assure you of New Zealand's cooperation during your term of office. 13 The opening of this, the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, came just one day after the anniversary of the terrorist attack of 11 September 2001, which shocked this city and the international community. The premeditated and callous mass murder of 3,000 people from 79 different countries was a sharp warning to us of the ongoing threats to peace and stability in our world. It was to protect humanity against such threats that the nations of the world came together in 1945 to establish this Organization in the belief that collective action was necessary to guarantee global peace. Today, in the second year of a new millennium, the need to act multilaterally is greater than ever before. Terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, environmental degradation, people-smuggling, drug- trafficking, diseases such as HIV/AIDS and the unsustainable depletion of our natural resources are all global matters that require a collective response. We can be proud that a year ago the response by the United Nations to a new and unprecedented level of terrorism was immediate, united and effective. The primary victim of the attack, the United States, sought and secured international cooperation that achieved the incapacitation of the Al Qaeda terrorist organization and the removal of the Taliban regime that had hosted it. It was a model for international unity of purpose and multilateral action. It was a lesson that should not be forgotten as this Organization tackles other problems confronting humanity. New Zealand has worked wholeheartedly under the mandate provided by the United Nations to defeat terrorism. We have introduced legislation to deny terrorist organizations funding and resources in line with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We have sought to assist our neighbours in the Pacific to do the same. We have committed peacekeeping personnel to the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and combat forces under Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. But we are also aware that actions to suppress terrorism must be accompanied by measures to tackle the causes of terrorism. Injustice, lack of opportunity, hopelessness, desperation and the failure of legitimate channels to redress grievances all give rise to resort to terrorist actions. The failure to resolve differences between Israeli and Palestinian people in the Middle East continues to be a catalyst for recruitment into terrorism. The Secretary-General, in opening this session, spelled out the basis for resolving the dispute. He referred to land for peace, an end to terror and to occupation, and to two States, Israel and Palestine, with secure and recognized borders. Both peoples are destined to live side by side. Both will benefit from an end to violence and a negotiated settlement. But agreement requires good faith from each side and a determined effort by the international community. We fully endorse the Secretary-General's renewed call for an international peace conference. Progress on this issue is now more vital than ever. The situation in Iraq is also a threat to world peace, but we must look for solutions that will resolve and do not exacerbate that threat. No nation can be exempt from the requirement to comply with the resolutions passed by this Organization. That is necessary if the rule of law is to apply internationally. No nation can be allowed to commit aggression or to use weapons of mass destruction against its own people. The requirement to comply with United Nations resolutions is not the instruction of one country to Iraq; it is collective instruction that should have the unanimous endorsement of all Member countries. Iraq's non-compliance with Security Council resolutions is a challenge to the entire United Nations membership. The United Nations must meet this challenge. How the situation is resolved matters to us all, not least the countries of the region itself. Those who can exercise influence over Iraq should do so to avoid the need for resort to other actions. The response chosen by the Security Council must, however, take into account the need not to impose further costs on ordinary Iraqi people innocent of any wrongdoing. The response should not involve actions that undermine, rather than strengthen, the war against terrorism. The United Nations has shown that collective action can save lives and help rebuild nations. We will soon welcome the world's newest nation, East Timor, into the United Nations, and we should celebrate the success of the United Nations peacekeeping mission and Transitional Administration in that country. I congratulate Sergio Vieira de Mello, the Secretary- General's former Special Representative, on his role, and I thank those countries that contributed so much to 14 giving hope and opportunity to the people of that small country. New Zealand has had a battalion of peacekeepers deployed in East Timor since September 1999, and also has peacekeepers serving in 12 other countries. We are proud that they have performed their role with professionalism and respect for the people in whose countries they operate. Notwithstanding the small size of our population, New Zealand currently is the twenty-second-largest contributor to the United Nations peacekeeping personnel. The promotion of human rights is another area where multilateral action by the international community is essential. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the United Nations has set out universal standards for the observance of human rights. There is no justification for any country to deviate from those human rights standards. It is a mark of shame that States Members of this Organization continue to breach basic human rights and a disgrace that other countries too often act as apologists for the offending regimes. An important landmark in the last year has been the entry into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. As the culmination of longstanding efforts by non-governmental organizations, Governments and the international community as a whole, it offers the prospect of bringing justice to the victims of the most horrific crimes known to humankind and bringing their perpetrators to justice. It will serve as a deterrent where none has existed before. We have listened carefully to those who argue that the Court is not necessary and that it unduly jeopardizes their peacekeepers, but we cannot agree. The status quo, relying on domestic jurisdiction alone, has failed humankind throughout history and has borne witness to appalling crimes. The new regime has carefully built-in safeguards to protect the innocent. We were dismayed by the actions of the Security Council in July. At that time, we challenged both the legitimacy and the substance of the Council's action. We do not believe that it was consistent with the Rome Statute or that the Council is able to arrogate to itself the power to change treaty relationships. A further issue on which greater progress must be made is that of disarmament. The fact that humanity survived the nightmare of potential nuclear destruction during the cold war cannot be allowed to make us complacent about ongoing threats from weapons of mass destruction. We welcome the Treaty of Moscow and the agreement between Russia and the United States to cut the number of strategic nuclear weapons each country deploys. These reductions, however, are not a substitute for irreversible cuts in, and the total elimination of, those weapons. In some respects even greater danger is posed by short-range tactical nuclear weapons. There is a real risk that these could be launched by accident or in confusion, with no time available for communication between opposing sides. Over the last year, two significant events have made our world a most dangerous place. The first is the emergence of international terrorist groups that have shown their willingness to use weapons of mass destruction — biological, chemical or nuclear — should they gain access to them. The second is the situation in South Asia, where the world recently came close to direct conflict between two countries with nuclear capability. The international community has not done enough to reduce those risks. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty has not been brought into effect. Progress towards the implementation of undertakings made by nuclear- weapon States at the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference has stalled. Nations have not taken sufficient steps to stop the production of fissile material and to reduce stocks. In this and in many other areas much more needs to be done to address growing problems that affect all of us. The awful toll of HIV/AIDS, slowness in response to global warming and the growth in the smuggling and trafficking of people are but three further examples. It is essential that we renew our commitment to multilateralism as the best way to address global problems. That requires not simply money but, must importantly, political will. It is not a case of putting global interests ahead of national interests. Global 15 interests are national interests. The United Nations is our most valuable international organization, but we need to do more to enhance its relevance, value and its unique authority. All of us are stakeholders in its success.  ﻿I should like first of all to congratulate Mr. Kavan on his election to the presidency. On 21 March at Monterrey, Mexico, the President of Nicaragua, Enrique Bolaños Geyer, announced that “a process of moral renewal has been launched in Nicaragua, with a crusade against public and private corruption”. On that same day, the President also announced that, in the spirit of the new era of moral renewal, “a Nicaraguan judge has just found three former officials of the previous Government and three other people guilty of acts of corruption that impoverished our people. The judge left pending the case against former President Alemán and eight other officials of the previous Government”. President Bolaños went on to say: “With a view to continuing my policy of zero tolerance of corruption, I must return to my country as soon as possible to contribute, with justice and transparency, to the historic landmark constituted by this bold decision.” A few days ago, in a similar case, another courageous Nicaraguan judge sentenced members of the former President's immediate family to jail. Today, I have come before this General Assembly on behalf of an entire people to reaffirm, in deed, Nicaragua's commitment to governance, transparency, accountability and to the principles of the rule of law. 27 There is much at stake today in Nicaragua. Not only must we punish corrupt officials and recover for our country Government money that was diverted and laundered, but also the results of our efforts will be crucial to the struggle waged by other peoples of our region and of the world against this scourge. Nicaragua's success will be an incentive for the entire international community. The failure of transparency in Nicaragua would set a bad precedent for humankind. We have not fought this battle alone. The support of more than 84 per cent of our population has been coupled with the moral and economic support of many countries, embodying the democratic values shared by us, the peoples of the United Nations. To them, to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and to the international organizations that have supported us, we extend our sincere gratitude. In order to ensure that the changes we have made are irreversible, we will need sustained and adequate support. In this way, we will preserve the great moral heritage of humankind — democracy exercised with honesty and accountability. As a part of this great heritage, we are today discussing human development, conceived as the State's ultimate purpose, to be attained through democratic governance, economic growth and social equity. We understand governance to be the result of doing things correctly in the political sphere — transparency, human rights and sovereignty. We see growth as the result of doing the right things in the economic and financial spheres, foreign exchange, fiscal and monetary policies and competition. And we understand equity as the result of doing things right in the social sphere — namely, in education, health, housing and gender equality. Progress in bringing together these three elements that comprise human development will not be possible until corruption is rooted out. By its very nature, the scourge of corruption has an impact that transcends national borders. In this regard, we offer our full support to the work being carried out by the special committee responsible for negotiating a United Nations convention against corruption. From this forum, we appeal to the international community to commit itself to the broadest possible mutual assistance and cooperation in investigating or prosecuting acts of corruption. Terrorism is just as abhorrent as corruption. This month we remember with anguish the tragedy of 11 September, when thousands of innocent people perished, many of them heroically. This tragedy, like all terrorist acts, must never be forgotten. At the same time, international cooperation to deal with such crimes must remain permanently on our agenda. It is essential that we coordinate activities to prevent and punish such terrorist activities, which cause so much pain and suffering, with the full force of the law. Nicaragua wishes to reaffirm once again its unconditional support for United Nations activities to combat international terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. In Nicaragua, we have already set in place a National Plan against Terrorism and Related Crimes, designed to strengthen cooperation among institutions, and with the aim of preventing, combating and eliminating this scourge, and complying with Security Council resolutions. The case of Iraq is a challenge and a test for the entire multilateral system that we have been constructing. It is up to us to either help strengthen it or help to weaken and fracture it. While it is true that we are all in favour of multilateral action, it is also undeniable that inertia and inaction undermine confidence in our collective will. The multilateral system must demonstrate the dynamism which is its very raison d'être by taking joint, concerted and timely action to resolve conflicts. We wish to see a system capable of reacting with specific, timely and effective measures to dangers that threaten international peace and security, a system that does not find itself overtaken by circumstances. Nicaragua takes the view that the immediate and unconditional return of United Nations weapons inspectors to Iraq, in a climate of complete cooperation, can only be regarded as an important part of a greater effort aimed at the elimination of all kinds of weapons of mass destruction, within the context of the global interests of the international community and in compliance with all pertinent Security Council resolutions. The reform of the United Nations is also part of the desire to respond effectively. Reform basically revolves around new organizational and administrative structures, which, without a doubt, have gradually enabled the United Nations to act with greater unity of purpose, coherence and flexibility. Nicaragua, like the 28 Secretary-General, believes that there is still great potential for progress, and we must all ensure that the Organization's work programme includes the priorities set out in the Millennium Declaration. No reform of the United Nations would be complete without the long-awaited expansion of the Security Council in order to enable it to respond fully and effectively to current and future needs. Similarly, we must pursue efforts to revitalize the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council in order to empower the Organization fully to assume its responsibilities, as enshrined in the Charter. Nicaragua shares the interest of Member States in strengthening the Organization, with a view to optimizing its efforts to maintain international peace and security, prevent conflicts, promote sustainable development and eradicate poverty. The recent World Summit on Sustainable Development filled us with hope and, at the same time, uneasiness. On the one hand, we saw the degree of attention being focused on the problem of environmental degradation. But, on the other hand, the path to achieving the balance between development and environment is still long and arduous, particularly for the least developed countries. Before us lies the challenge of generating greater wealth and more jobs without harming our environment. We cannot achieve this without the support of the developed countries, which must help pay the price of the benefits they reap from our efforts. Therefore, I wish to recall the Monterrey consensus, where we urged those developed countries that have not yet done so to adopt specific measures to allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product for official development assistance (ODA) to the developing countries. Nicaragua is aware that violence, civil and international wars, the scourge of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), drought and poverty are the main problems afflicting the African continent in recent years. However, we note with concern that international cooperation and assistance to Africa are diminishing. The efforts of African Governments to achieve economic growth and alleviate poverty must be matched. Development efforts have also been given direct expression in Central America, where we have reached important agreements and taken decisions that today enable us to say that our region is embarking on a new era in its history. On 21 June last, in the city of Granada, Nicaragua, we held the Twenty-First Ordinary Meeting of Heads of State and Government of Central America. This provided the opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to moving towards the consolidation of a Central American Customs Union, which will become a reality on 31 December 2003. The Customs Union was conceived as a means of contributing to the economic and social development of our countries. It will promote smooth interregional trade, reduce the costs of transport owing to border delays, facilitate the movement of persons and vehicles, and, at the same time, attract international business and investment to the region. Nonetheless, the prolonged halt in the international economic recovery was exacerbated in Nicaragua by uncharacteristic problems in the external sector, owing to the high price of imported oil and the lowest coffee prices in history. According to data provided by Gabriel Silva, President of the Colombian Coffee Growers' Federation, five years ago, coffee consumers paid 30 billion dollars while producers received 12 billion dollars, or 40 per cent. Today, consumers pay 65 billion dollars but producers receive only 5.5 billion dollars or less than 8.5 per cent. This critical situation, which is generating unemployment and hunger in the productive areas of Nicaragua and other producer countries, seems to be caused by a cartel of coffee-roasters, a situation that must be remedied as soon as possible through measures to promote competition in consumer markets and on the international market. Nicaragua congratulates Switzerland on recently joining the United Nations as a new Member and Timor-Leste, which is about to join. Their presence among us will contribute new ideas and approaches to strengthening efforts for a better world, and — paraphrasing the representative of Switzerland's statement to this General Assembly — will enhance the universality of the United Nations in the best interest of humankind. In this same connection, my country, aware of the principle of universality and equality that inspired the United Nations, considers it a priority to permit the 23 million inhabitants of the Republic of China on Taiwan to enjoy the universal right to participate in international affairs through its own delegation to the 29 United Nations, parallel to and with the same rights of participation as the People's Republic of China, whose Government has never exercised hegemony over Taiwan. Nicaragua, as a founding State of this Organization, reaffirms its commitment to the Charter and its aspiration to become a non-permanent member of the Security Council during the elections to be held during the sixtieth session of the General Assembly. I spoke earlier of a new era of moral renewal in Nicaragua rooted in the values of the United Nations. I believe that when we speak of strengthening democracy, reforming the Organization, fighting corruption, terrorism and drug trafficking, halting the arms race or providing joint, timely and effective responses to the dangers which threaten us, we are really speaking of one and the same thing: belonging jointly to an Organization that holds and safeguards our trust and collective action based on the principles that united our peoples on that historic day to create the United Nations.  ﻿Gabon is pleased to see Mr. Kavan presiding over the work of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, which is being held at a time when the need to strengthen international cooperation to resolve the world's problems is indeed vital. His election is a recognition by the international community of the role that his country, the Czech Republic, plays in the promotion of freedom and peace. To his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, we express our satisfaction at the excellent job he did as President of the General Assembly at the previous session. To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, we convey our gratitude and support for his forceful work on behalf of international peace and security. Gabon welcomes the admission of the Swiss Confederation and the imminent accession of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste to membership of the United Nations. They swell the ranks of our illustrious United Nations family, confirming its universality. I should like to pursue my statement by evoking the metaphor of the river. Each wave lapping the banks has its own character, but they all call from the same river. They express multiplicity in consistency. The same can be said of our annual sessions. This session is a new wave in the mighty river of the United Nations, a new cycle in the global rhythm of the world. Today, many of us feel hope tinged with scepticism. Two years ago, in September 2000, we held the Millennium Summit in this very Hall. It was certainly the point of departure of a new global movement towards more peace, prosperity, justice and humanism. At the very moment when we imagined ourselves to have taken a great step forward towards the building of a better world for all, we were stunned on 11 September 2001 by the ghastly terrorist attacks perpetrated here on American soil. Those attacks of violence, which we all condemned, eclipsed our dreams and reminded us of the beast lurking within each of us. Gabon was one of the very first nations to commit itself to implementing the provisions of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) by taking legal action to prevent and combat terrorism. Although significant, progress made since then under the auspices of the Security Council in the campaign against international terrorism needs to be strengthened. That is why 17 negotiations on a draft general convention on international terrorism must go on with a view to its speedy adoption. In the same spirit, the conclusion of ongoing discussions on a convention on the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism will supplement the international anti-terrorism legal framework. The cloud of uncertainty looming over our collective security is darkened by the Israel-Palestinian crisis. It is regrettable to note that renewed violence in the Middle East is calling all previous efforts into question. The international community must mobilize to rekindle the flame of peace in that region, which has been beset by ceaseless violence for decades. Gabon encourages both sides to resume dialogue and negotiation with a view to implementing the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, in particular resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), which stress the need for the coexistence of the Palestinian State with the State of Israel, with respect for secure and internationally recognized borders. Similarly, Gabon hopes that the current talks between the two Koreas will help allay tensions between the two countries. Positive developments in the overall situation in Africa attest to the continent's gradual return to the path of peace, stability and unity. Fratricidal conflicts are increasingly giving way to the emergence of an African awareness marked by the determination to see the ideals of peace prevail and to devote ourselves to development. This wave of hope has been justified by recent developments, particularly in the Great Lakes region. We are convinced that this progress will give impetus to the peace process in that region. Accordingly, we believe that it is time to convene an international conference on the region in order to consolidate peace there. However, the progress that has been made in resolving conflicts in Africa should not blind us to the situations in Angola, Liberia, the Central African Republic and Guinea-Bissau, which, having been destabilized by years of conflict, are now facing enormous difficulties, particularly in the humanitarian area, in restoring domestic peace and security. The international community must lend its support to the economic and social recovery efforts of those countries so as to prevent them from being caught up yet again in the spiral of violence. The world's economic and social situation is disquieting. The commitments that we undertook at the Millennium Summit, and which were reiterated at the Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development, have yet to bear fruit. Globalization, which we thought would permit the harmonious integration of all countries into the international community through the process of trade liberalization, has not yet attained the hoped-for results. On the contrary, we see that there has been an increase in social inequality and a widening gap between industrialized and developing countries. Efforts by developing countries, particularly in the areas of consolidating democracy, the rule of law, good governance, the fight against poverty and the rational protection and management of the environment, are still not being matched by the developed countries, as attested to by the continued diminution of external resources for development and the drop in foreign investment. One must add to that the growth of conditionalities and other barriers that could keep those countries in a state of permanent economic and social stagnation. Among the elements contributing to that state of affairs is the heavy burden of debt. In fact, several developing countries, including Gabon, devote almost half of their budgetary resources to repayment of debt, while at the same time they must find solutions to the many problems that inhibit their development. We have the firm conviction that, by reducing the indebtedness of our countries to a sustainable level, we can allocate more resources to priorities such as universal education and health, housing, poverty reduction and environmental management. We hope that the promise made by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to extend the current debt relief mechanisms to other developing countries — including those with intermediate incomes, such as Gabon — will quickly become reality. In order to respond to those concerns, Africa has established the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). NEPAD is a true development programme based on good governance, respect for human rights and the strengthening of democracy, peace and security, which are preconditions for the economic recovery of the continent. That programme calls on the international community for effective support. Members can easily understand why the African countries place much hope in the debate that 18 the General Assembly will devote to NEPAD tomorrow, 16 September, in which the President of Gabon will take part. Malaria and, above all, HIV/AIDS are major obstacles to Africa's development that could ultimately deprive the continent of much of its human potential. We are pleased that the First Ladies of Africa have understood the gravity of this problem by creating, in partnership with the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), an organization to combat malaria and the HIV/AIDS pandemic, called the Organization of the First Ladies of Africa against HIV/ AIDS. We are convinced that this new structure — headed by the First Lady of Gabon, Ms. Edith Lucie Bongo, whose self-sacrifice and dynamism are well known — will complement the efforts of African States in combating this scourge. We also expect strong action from the international community to accompany our efforts in the fight against the pandemic. The preservation of global ecosystems is another subject of concern for the world. Only a few weeks ago, heads of State or Government met at Johannesburg, South Africa, for the World Summit on Sustainable Development. Despite the momentum it generated, the Summit did not reduce the risks that weigh on our environment. We think that, in view of the lack of progress in implementing the recommendations of environmental conferences organized over the past decade, it is becoming increasingly urgent that States implement Agenda 21 and the other relevant international instruments. Gabon, for its part, has just created a zone of national parks that covers 10 per cent of our national territory. Those protected areas are proof of our contribution to the process of preserving global ecological balance in general and to the management and conservation of Africa's massive tropical forest in particular. That is why we welcome the launching in Johannesburg, by United States Secretary of State Colin Powell, of the initiative to preserve the flora and fauna of the countries of the Congo river basin. Positive trends in the world can be guaranteed only in an institutional environment bearing the seal of universality. The United Nations, in our view, embodies such an environment, where there must be true multilateral cooperation, based on justice, equality, solidarity and the participation of all. It is evident that, in order to be a global centre for interaction and debate, the United Nations needs reforms. Those reforms, for which we have been calling for several years, are unavoidable if we wish to see the continued existence of the United Nations, whose membership has increased constantly since its creation in 1945. Reform of the Organization must be based on a reaffirmation of the purposes and principles of the Charter, primary among which are international peace and security. The International Court of Justice, in a 1949 advisory opinion concerning certain expenditures of the United Nations, stated that it was natural to give top priority to international peace and security, because the other purposes could not be attained unless that fundamental condition were met. International peace and security are the preconditions for development, which in turn is a way to create the stability and well- being that are necessary to guarantee peaceful and friendly relations among nations. The United Nations is the property of humanity. It was born out of awareness of the horrors of the Second World War, in which all peoples participated, including Africans. We wish to see Africa play a more important role in the Organization, particularly in the Security Council, by being given at least one permanent seat with the same privileges as the other members with the same status. Furthermore, Africa has been recognized by the United Nations as a top priority, and we are convinced that the creation of a Secretariat office concerned exclusively with African issues would remedy the shortcomings we have seen in the implementation of previous programmes devoted to Africa, such as the United Nations Programme for the Economic Redressing and Development of Africa and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. Our collective action for development will not be truly effective unless we use dialogue and cooperation as tools for global solidarity based on the promotion of partnerships. Today or never, we must reaffirm that we all belong to the one and only human race and define the new contours of our collective destiny. We can thus draw from our shared river, the United Nations, the resources that will enable us to build, with hope and confidence, a better world for everyone.  ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the lofty post of President of this representative world forum and to wish you every success in your work. Your election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly is symbolic not only of the personal respect you hold, but also of the authority your country enjoys in the world community. In recent decades, the Czech Republic has been through some hard times. Because of that, you well understand the problems of Kyrgyzstan, which is going through a transition from its authoritarian past to a democratic future. I take this opportunity to thank Mr. Han Seung- soo for his excellent work as the President of the previous session. The present session is significant in that the Swiss Confederation and, soon, the Democratic Republic of East Timor will have become Members of the United Nations. We warmly welcome the representatives of those countries, who are participating in this session of the General Assembly. This is my first address from the rostrum of the General Assembly as President of the sovereign Kyrgyz Republic. 11 years have passed since the State of Kyrgyzstan declared its independence. What has brought me to the Assembly is my desire to share with you my thoughts on the most pressing problems of our national development. First, I would like to refer to the International Year of Mountains, which is being celebrated this year pursuant to a resolution adopted at the fifty-third session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. It was proclaimed at the initiative of Kyrgyzstan and other mountainous countries, for which the problem of 7 the development of mountainous areas is of crucial importance. We are very grateful for the support given to that initiative. Thanks to the efforts of the United Nations, important events have already taken place at the regional and national levels. The outcome of the work done will be discussed at the Global Mountain Summit, to be held in our capital, Bishkek, at the end of October. We will create the most favourable conditions for its work, in the best tradition of Kyrgyz warmth and hospitality. I believe the delegates present in the Hall will agree that among the many complex challenges facing the world community, the most pressing problems are developing democracy and guaranteeing human rights and freedoms. Those goals have been made a top priority in the Kyrgyz Republic since the earliest days of its establishment. We are convinced that in modern day conditions, unless there is consistent democratization and human emancipation, progress and prosperity cannot be achieved. However, the remnants of the authoritarian Soviet heritage still has a tenacious hold on the minds of our people, especially among the elderly. There is good reason why former Soviet States are referred to in international classifications as transitional countries. Our experience has shown that the process of transition is particularly difficult not only in the area of the economy but in the minds of people. On our road towards democracy, we have experienced both joyful success and bitter failure. When we analysed our failures, we came to understand that their main cause was a lack of democracy. In order to give the development of democracy a new and powerful impetus, I as President proclaimed a new national idea: Kyrgyzstan, a country of human rights. We intend to elaborate a democratic code and to establish a council for democratic security. Recently, in order to further the process of democratization, I took the decision to reform our Constitution and to convene a Constitutional Assembly. During my stay in the United States, the Constitutional Assembly is at the concluding stage of its work. The difficulty is that society has different approaches for developing democracy. Some forces claiming to be ardent supporters of democracy consider the essence of democracy to be the destruction of existing structures and the undertaking of new experiments. That would cause the transition from authoritarianism to democracy to take a very long time, indeed, while people have long awaited stability. On behalf of the people of Kyrgyzstan, I would like to assure the world community that we adhere to the principles of democracy and will confidently follow that path despite the difficulties and obstacles that we encounter. I consider the problem of poverty eradication to be as important as the problem of the development of democracy. The problem has worsened under present conditions in the post-Soviet period. We are not the only poor country in the world. There are many reasons for this, and I do not intend to analyse them in my statement. Poverty has a negative impact on people's morale and creates many obstacles to developing the democratic process. Moreover, poverty is a breeding ground for extremism and international terrorism. The world community has repeatedly declared its resolve to help countries in need to overcome poverty. Mr. George Bush, the President of the United States, promised to substantially increase assistance to poor countries when he announced the creation of the Millennium Challenge Account. We are grateful for every initiative of the United Nations, the United Nations Development Programme and other international organizations, as well as of donor countries, for their assistance to poor countries. However, those efforts are still not sufficient. Following the example of my colleagues from other poor countries, I would like to call upon the world community not to slacken its efforts in the campaign against poverty and to find new resources and new approaches in solving this problem. That would help reduce pockets of instability, encourage the development of democracy and have a positive impact on the world's development as a whole. I would like to refer to the problem of international terrorism, which is the main danger to the world. New York, where the Assembly is now gathered, was witness to a terrible tragedy which showed the horrendous, brute face of terrorism. The Kyrgyz Republic, which in past years experienced incursions into its territory by international terrorist groups, has strongly supported the call of the President of the United States of America, Mr. George Bush, to create an anti-terrorism coalition. Together with Russia and our other partners and allies, Kyrgyzstan joined the campaign against the horrendous, bestial face of terrorism. We very much appreciate the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council, 8 and I assure you that Kyrgyzstan will extend all possible assistance to the Committee in its work. At the global, regional and national levels, Kyrgyzstan is actively participating in the struggle against international terrorism. We have put our territory at the disposition of the military forces of the anti-terrorism coalition. In December of last year, our capital, Bishkek, hosted an international conference under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to strengthen comprehensive efforts to fight international terrorism. A Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at that time established a firm foundation for action at the global level. Anti-terrorism centres have been established within the framework of the Shanghai Organization of Cooperation and the Commonwealth of Independent States. Within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty, Collective Rapid Deployment Forces have been established with headquarters in Bishkek. However, there are still many unresolved issues confronting the anti-terrorist coalition in Afghanistan, where, until recently, the main redoubt of international terrorism was located. On 23 September I will be meeting with President George Bush in the White House. I believe that the question of our cooperation in the struggle against terrorism will be a top priority. I intend to assure the President of the United States that Kyrgyzstan, acting together with Russia and our other partners, will discharge its responsibility. One of the most important points of my statement to the General Assembly is to draw the Assembly's attention to a major event in the Kyrgyz Republic. I am referring to the fact that, next year, in 2003, our people will be celebrating the 2,200th anniversary of Kyrgyz Statehood. Taking into account the wishes of wide segments of our society, I, as President, issued an edict proclaiming 2003 the year of Kyrgyz Statehood. For the newly independent States that emerged from the collapse of the Soviet Union, a search for our historic and ethnic roots has become a vital task. I am sure that, at the dawn of their independence, many States that are now represented in the United Nations experienced the same desire. Research carried out by our historians and a study of the works of well-known orientalists have led us to the conclusion the formation of the first Kyrgyz State took place at the end of the third century B. C. This has been convincingly borne out by ancient Chinese chronicles. The famous Chinese chronicler Sima Qian, who is considered to be the Chinese Herodotus, drew up a chronicle in verse about the existence in far-off times of a Kyrgyz State in the form of a Kyrgyz princedom. That State flourished at certain periods and at others merely smouldered. But national Statehood was carried forward by the Kyrgyz people for many centuries up to the end of the twentieth century, when it took the form of the Kyrgyz Republic, which later became a Member of the United Nations. I would like to remind the Assembly that, in 1995, the Kyrgyz people celebrated a great event, namely, the one thousandth anniversary of our great work of folk literature, the heroic epic Manas. We are very grateful to the United Nations for the decision it took at the time to give that event international resonance. The celebration in Kyrgyzstan of the one thousandth anniversary of the Manas epic took place with great enthusiasm. That contributed to an unprecedented revival of national spirit and to the unity of our people. From this rostrum, I wish to address the Secretary-General Kofi Annan and all the delegations participating in the work of the current session to ask them to adopt a decision to recognize as a great historic event in the life our country the 2,200th anniversary of Kyrgyz Statehood, and to give it international status. That would be accepted by my people with profound gratitude. It would also do much to promote domestic stability and further consolidate the multi-ethnic nature of my nation. In cooperation with other delegations, my delegation will submit an appropriate draft resolution on this subject that I, as President of Kyrgyzstan, would ask the Assembly to support. Kyrgyzstan's cooperation with the United Nations is multilateral in nature. It encompasses a wide spectrum of problems of interest to us all. We have received unwavering support and assistance from the United Nations and its specialized agencies at every stage of our development since the proclamation of State independence. I should like to take this opportunity to express our sincere gratitude for that assistance. I also wish to proclaim from this rostrum that Kyrgyzstan will in the future remain firmly committed to the purposes and principles of the 9 Organization, and that we will do whatever we can to make them a reality.  ﻿I greet you, Your Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, President of the General Assembly, which I address for the first time. A short distance from here, on the fateful day 11 September, 2,801 citizens of the world died. In Colombia, violence claims the same number of victims every month. Forty three million Colombians, peace- loving people, are experiencing one of the world's worst humanitarian crises. Every year Colombia buries 34,000 of its own, victims of violence. We have lost 10 per cent of our youth. Last year the country registered the highest homicide rate in the world: 63 per 100,000 inhabitants. During the past five years, we have experienced 8,000 acts of collective destruction, more than those recorded for any other cases of violence in the world; 280 villages were the object of guerrilla and 8 paramilitary attacks with serious consequences for local civilians and the armed forces. The terrorist attack carried out during my inaugural ceremony killed 21 ordinary people. Two million people, 40 per cent of them children, have been forcibly displaced under pressure from violent groups. That is the equivalent of the simultaneous displacement of the communities of Washington and Manhattan. During the past five years, 16,500 people have been kidnap victims. Yesterday, six children were kidnapped and one of them is still being held. Just as the 11 September terrorist attacks moved the entire world and triggered justified and universal condemnation, mankind should be shaken by attacks such as the one carried out by guerrillas on 2 May 2002, in Bojay·, a village of 1,000 inhabitants. They killed 117 civilians who had taken refuge in the church. Such violence makes our people poorer every day, discourages investments, hampers economic growth, diverts valuable resources and prevents us from overcoming our economic and social backwardness. Violence absorbs four per cent of my country's gross domestic product. Hijackings, kidnappings and assaults are daily occurrences on our main highways, including the one that joins our two largest cities. Imagine a similar situation between Brussels and Paris, or New York and Boston. Today, Colombians are making a great effort to address the problem with public order policies, State reform aimed at defeating corruption and political chicanery and greater economic growth and social investment. The main objective of our democratic security policy is to restore the rule of law. Security is not for persecuting real or imagined ideological enemies or maintaining a one-party regime. The aim of democratic security is to protect all citizens in a pluralist nation, open to fraternal and creative debate. Democratic security is for all Colombians and is intended to ensure that peasant farmers are not driven from their land; that members of the business community are not kidnapped; that journalists are not threatened; and that the missions of bishops, priests, nuns, preachers and educators are respected. It is also intended to ensure that union leaders can freely exercise their actions; political leaders can move about without fear; and that human rights advocates can work without threats. As civilian commander-in-chief of the armed forces, I am committed to rigorously observing and respecting human rights. Failure in this regard may lead to appeasement, but it would never bring reconciliation. Our emergency measures do not restrict human rights, but rather demand the observance of rules, for example with regard to the mobilization of citizens, in the name of freedom of movement, to prevent explosives from continuing to be transported to assassinate people. We respect debate. The security policy that is being implemented is not aimed at silencing criticism, but rather at confronting violence. That policy is irreversible. The number of military and police personnel in Colombia is low: 3.9 per 1,000 inhabitants. New York has 42,000 police officers, while all of Colombia has 75,000. We must strengthen our armed forces. We have decreed a wealth tax that will be paid by high-income businesses and citizens. The additional tax revenue should amount approximately to 1 per cent of the gross domestic product. As part of the implementation of the democratic security policy, our Government has called on the solidarity of a million citizens to cooperate voluntarily with the armed forces and justice officials. An essential element of a socially oriented constitutional State is citizen support for its legitimate institutions. It constitutes the individual's commitment to the community, without which the State loses its social nature. We must break citizen fear of the guerrillas and paramilitaries, and we must create community-based links with democratic institutions. To a large extent, the efficacy and transparency of the armed forces depend on citizen cooperation. The Colombian problem jeopardizes the democratic stability of the region. We need the world's assistance to resolve it. I ask for the world's help because my Government has made the decision to defeat terror and to ensure that these four years do not end in a renewed victory for crime or in new evidence of State and societal vacillation before the arrogance of the violent. It is imperative that the sources of terror financing be eliminated. That is why we must conquer drugs and kidnapping. 9 There is concern about weapons of mass destruction within the United Nations, and we share that anguish. But we must understand that drugs have a massive capacity for destruction, equivalent to that of the most feared chemical weapons. We are determined to eliminate them. We request the same level of commitment from the world. We cannot continue with timid half-actions and decisions. While we delay action, more drugs are produced and traded by terrorism. I call on fellow members: do not send us your weapons. Eliminate your markets for drugs and chemical precursors. Help us with aerial interdiction and drug seizures in the Pacific and in the Caribbean. We need resources to pay our farmers to destroy drugs and work to restore our forests. Last week, Carlos Enrique Arenas, a 29-year-old pilot serving with the Colombian navy father of a 2-year-old daughter and a second child on the way and his co-pilot, Roberto Enrique Guardo the father of three young children disappeared in the ocean. The helicopter they were piloting crashed after intercepting a speedboat carrying more than two tons of cocaine. Sacrifices such as this demand the support of all nations to defeat drugs, especially since until now we have only managed to seize 20 per cent of the drugs that are shipped from our country. A United Nations resolution Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) orders the seizure of bank accounts, investments and other assets of individuals who commit terrorist acts. That resolution has remained a dead letter in those countries where the resources that finance terrorist acts in Colombia circulate. My Administration's commitment to security is not opposed to dialogue. Quite the contrary, we want dialogue. This is why we have requested the good offices of the United Nations through a special adviser of the Secretary-General. That is the way to begin a serious peace process, one that starts with the cessation of violence. The United Nations Charter tells us that dialogue with those who commit acts of terror is possible only if those acts are halted. The pain of thousands of Colombians caused by the kidnapping of their loved ones the list includes former presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt; several members of Congress; members of state assemblies; the Governor of my own state, a former minister and tireless worker for peace; members of the armed forces, and hundreds of ordinary people demonstrates that we need humanitarian action that does not fuel violence but that leads us along the path of reconciliation. The world has plenty of analysts of Colombian problems, and plenty of critics of our society and our successive Governments. We need less rhetoric and more action that is, real contributions to solving the problem. We call for effective cooperation, because the violence is financed through the international drug trade and is waged with weapons not made in Colombia. Like other nations, we suffer dire poverty, injustice, low investor confidence, high debt and a budget deficit. We have always honoured and will continue always to honour our international financial commitments. We are making unprecedented efforts to freeze operating expenditures and to increase taxes. But we need significant bilateral and multilateral economic support to invest and to expand employment to begin to pay the social debt. A victory over violence will trigger economic growth and create resources for social development, which in turn will consolidate peace. One thought: the price of a pound of Colombian coffee was once more than $3; it is now around 60 cents. International banks and cooperation agencies should redouble their commitment and resources in Colombia. The money will not to be used for wasteful expenditures or to salvage bankruptcies, but will rather be invested, in the interest of the poor, to ensure governability. The people of Colombia are proud, hard-working, democratic and sensible; their spontaneity has not been stifled by their suffering. The nation has the most solid democratic tradition, widely recognized long-term economic performance, a highly diversified industrial base, a productive structure increasingly geared towards international markets, and an enormous potential for small democratic enterprises. Representatives of the peoples of the world: with your commitment and support, and with our own determination, Colombia will be freed from the slavery of violence and will be more prosperous, with greater justice. ﻿I congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly. Our annual gatherings in this great Hall serve well to reaffirm our commitment to the purposes of the United Nations: the commitment to uphold the principles of the Charter, to assert fundamental human rights and freedoms as we seek to improve social and economic conditions, and to act together in sovereignty in the maintenance of international peace and security. The lessons of history require that nations be united in common effort. There is no other way; not today, in this interdependent, ever globalizing world. Certainly, from the perspective of the very small there is no other way. Indeed, we cannot see how any one country, no matter what its size and power, can completely fend for itself. War and conflict divide nations. They rage in too many places. Global forces operate to degrade the environment and spread misery through poverty and disease and through the illicit trade in arms, drugs and people. The entire world community is now seriously challenged by the terrible scourges of HIV/AIDS and terrorism. Only through cooperation and multilateral action can we hope to respond, to take countermeasures, to find solutions and to give protection to all. The monstrous terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September 2001 were an assault on values that are fundamental to humanity and to the United Nations. On behalf of my country, I want to renew to the people of the United States our feelings of solidarity and total support. The spirit of the United States was never in doubt. Tested, it has become more resolute in its purpose and courage. It is that spirit that provides global leadership. It is the spirit that unites us all in the struggle against terrorism. Let me reaffirm our strong support for Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and for the Council's action to implement it. For its part, Samoa has put in place appropriate policies and domestic legislation, and we will review our arrangements as necessary, in keeping with the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee. Iraq continues to violate Security Council resolutions. It has done so for a considerable time far too long. We commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his repeated efforts to encourage compliance. We think there must be full compliance with obligations pursuant to Security Council resolutions: compliance without preconditions, without delay. We welcome the broad acknowledgement in the statements we have heard in this debate that actions that need to be taken will be taken within the framework of the United Nations and under the authority of the Security Council. The news this morning of the likely return of weapons inspectors is a positive development, and we hope it is one of complete seriousness. Our concern about Iraq reflects in part our very serious concern about the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. Those weapons pose an immediate and major threat to international peace and security. The international agreements and systems to control the development and spread of weapons of mass destruction, and to eliminate them, must be strengthened and implemented. We live in a part of the world where nuclear weapons have been tested and used. Our fear of the consequences is real. That is why we have the Rarotonga Treaty, which declared the South Pacific a nuclear-weapon-free-zone. We call on States that have not yet done so to complete the ratification process of the protocols to the Treaty. And that is why we continue to object to the transportation of nuclear and other radioactive material through the waters of our region. 8 We are appalled at the suffering of families and communities in the Middle East, and we pray for permanent peace for all. The current situation is a threat of utmost gravity to international peace and security. It calls for efforts of highest priority and urgency to bring an end to the conflict. Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2001) provide the basis for a settlement. Those resolutions should be implemented. My delegation strongly supports the Secretary- General in the ongoing reform of the United Nations. We have all seen good and positive results. Reform to make the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council more effective must continue. Reform of the Security Council calls for particular attention. The issues are sensitive and complex. That is clear. Yet, it is also clear that the Security Council needs to reflect the geopolitical realities of our time. It needs to be properly representative of the international community of today and to be able to function effectively and be secure in its authority. We applaud the entry into force of the Rome Statute that established the International Criminal Court. Samoa has now ratified the Statute. The Court will bring to justice those who commit genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. It is, therefore, a major achievement and a significant step in the protection of human rights and in upholding international humanitarian standards. To that end, the Court deserves all support to allow it the strength of universality and the rule of law. We need to ensure that it is not undermined in any way. This has been an especially notable year in the international efforts to realize the Millennium Development Goals. In March, we achieved the Monterrey Consensus. Earlier this month, we agreed in Johannesburg on a Plan to implement sustainable development in every land. Rightly, the focus is on halving extreme poverty by 2015. The condition of utter misery that condemns so many of our fellow humans worldwide is simply unacceptable. The outstanding leadership of South Africa ensured the success of the Johannesburg Summit. We extend to President Mbeki, to his ministers and to his other colleagues our warm thanks and congratulations. In this context, let me also congratulate the leadership of Africa on the establishment of the African Union and the creation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). We have joined hands with Africa on other issues, including our endeavours in the context of cooperation between the Group of African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the European Union, and I give assurance of our close interest and support. Speaking in Samoa's capacity as Chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States, let me note our particular satisfaction with the provisions in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation dedicated to the sustainable development of small island States. We greatly appreciate the role played by all countries in finding agreement on those provisions. We look forward to their continuing support as we move to prepare for the agreed international meeting in 2004 to review the Barbados Programme of Action. Overcoming the well-recognized vulnerability of small island States, and the exposure of island countries to the effects of global climate change, natural disasters, environmental damage and global economic shocks is fundamental to long-term sustainability in all small island regions. Climate change poses immediate and the most serious of threats for our communities. Largely by the acts of others, it puts at risk countries like my own that are least responsible for the causes and least able to adapt. In Johannesburg, we were greatly heartened by the declarations from many countries the Russian Federation, China, India and Canada among them of their plans to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. This serious problem deserves no less than this type of global solidarity and leadership. As I close, let me welcome Switzerland upon its having taken up full membership of the United Nations. Switzerland's role and its contribution to the Organization are known to all and are well appreciated. Let me also voice our satisfaction with the situation in East Timor. It is a success story in every sense: in the determination of its people and in the response of the international community. Samoa is pleased to have been able to contribute to the United Nations peacekeeping effort in that country; we plan to continue doing so. Last month, we welcomed East Timor as an observer to the Pacific Islands Forum. We look forward to its joining the United Nations soon.  ﻿I congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We are confident that you will conduct the proceedings of this session with great competence, thanks to your outstanding skills and qualities. I should like to pay tribute also to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, who presided ably over the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. Let me also express my deep appreciation for the efforts of the Secretary-General to harmonize international relations and to ensure respect for the principles of the Charter with a view to strengthening international peace and security. I wish also to welcome Switzerland and Timor- Leste to the United Nations. 31 We have agreed to the American political initiative that was put forward in 1991. At the Madrid Conference, several agreements were entered into by the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), representing the Palestinian people, and Israel. The aim of those agreements was the commencement of negotiations between the two parties with a view to the implementation of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). They also called on Israel to withdraw from the Arab territories occupied since 1967. A deadline of five years was set for those negotiations. The clock began to run after the signing of the Oslo Accords in 1993 in Washington, under the auspices of the previous United States President President Clinton. However, successive Israeli Governments have refused to withdraw from the occupied Palestinian territories and have continued to deploy Israeli forces there. This intransigence on the part of Israel highlights its goal: the continued occupation of Palestinian territories. During the course of those negotiations, new settlements were built, 187 altogether, inhabited by some 370,000 settlers, most of them armed. Recently, Israel began building a wall along the line of the 1967 truce. Israel is continuing its cruel and barbaric acts and carrying out its scorched-earth policy, with a view to depriving the Palestinian people of their income and means of subsistence. During the past two years of conflict, agricultural production has dropped by 80 per cent and industrial production by 60 per cent. Unemployment has reached 65 per cent, and 63 per cent of the population is living in poverty. Israel has destroyed public institutions, police stations, ports and airports. More than 1,350 houses have been torn down, and more than 3,000 businesses and industrial concerns in the occupied territories and in Gaza have been demolished, an area of 5,800 square kilometres. The taxes that Israel collects, about $850 million, which should have been paid to the Palestinian Authority, have been kept by the Israelis. A total of 90,000 olive trees, out of 300,000, have been uprooted, and the Palestinian infrastructure has been demolished. The occupied territories were divided into 227 separate cantons. Trade was halted, measures were taken to curtail the freedom of movement of people and of goods, and borders with Arab countries were closed. In addition, the Israeli authorities have placed President Arafat under house arrest. These arbitrary measures have prompted the Palestinian people to pursue their heroic resistance, in the face of Israel's various lethal weapons, which are used to enforce the separation between the cantons. In Bethlehem, in Gaza and in other cities, residential areas have been bombed. Moreover, many Palestinians have been thrown into jail. The fact-finding team set up by the Security Council was prevented from going into the field to witness firsthand the suffering of the Palestinian people at the hands of the Nazi Israeli occupation. The United States is a great Power and bears an important responsibility vis-‡-vis the maintenance of international peace and security and the prevention of regional conflict. Moreover, the United States has committed itself to working with the former Soviet Union, through the United Nations, to resolve conflicts by peaceful means and to eliminate their arsenals of weapons of mass destruction. This is a very important approach that enables the United Nations to enhance fruitful international cooperation among States. Should that approach be abandoned, the United Nations will fail to develop international cooperation and to maintain international peace and security. The use of force in the context of intra-State relations to resolve problems does not help us in any way to uphold the purposes and principles of the United Nations. On the contrary; it only gives rise to fear and doubt among the States Members of the United Nations, especially developing countries, which have always turned to the Organization to protect them. The peoples of the world are looking to the United States in the hope that that major Power will play a positive and neutral role in international relations and in the hope that it will always be a source of technological and economic assistance. It goes without saying that the commitment of the United States to the strict implementation of United Nations resolutions in particular those of the Security Council without the use of a double standard strengthens our trust in the United Nations and reinforces its credibility as a forum for the resolution of international problems. 32 Thus we are justified in asking ourselves whether these humanitarian and political responsibilities are incumbent on the United States in this era of globalization. We might ask ourselves why the United States is threatening to use force against Iraq, when sanctions have been imposed on that country for more than 10 years. Why does the United States not speak of the elimination of the weapons of mass destruction possessed by Israel, which threaten the Arab States, as was noted previously? Israel could destroy the Egyptian high dam, even though a peace agreement was signed between Israel and Egypt more than 24 years ago. Mr. Hans Blix has stated that he had no evidence that Iraq had any weapons of mass destruction. When the political negotiations began, the Arab countries took a neutral position. Israeli Prime Ministers Rabin and Peres visited certain Arab States and an attempt was made to normalize Israeli-Arab relations. When Yitzhak Rabin was killed in 1995 and authority was handed over to Mr. Netanyahu, progress towards peace was impeded. The Arab countries halted the process of normalizing relations with Israel. Nevertheless, at the 1996 Arab Summit they said that peace was an Arab strategy that would not be abandoned. Despite five years of negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, however, expectations were not fulfilled. Great sacrifices were made on our part. During the Camp David summit, an aide to President Clinton denied that Barak wanted to give the Palestinians a large part of Palestinian territory. Israel was to keep 10 per cent of the territory along the Jordanian border, with three early-warning systems in the West Bank and the establishment of a mutilated Palestinian State with no sovereignty. The events of 11 September 2001 led to a humanitarian catastrophe that shook the conscience of the world. All countries of the world, including Arab and Muslim countries, stood in solidarity with the American people and expressed their intention to combat terrorism in all its forms. We were surprised, however, that the United States Administration refused to acknowledge that the Sharon Government was perpetrating acts of State terrorism. The Arabs put forward a political initiative at the Arab Summit in March, in the hope that they would be able to make an effective contribution to ending the Arab-Israeli conflict with a view to ratifying a peace agreement with Israel. This Arab initiative, which provided for a withdrawal by Israel from lands occupied since 1967 and the establishment of a Palestinian State with Al- Quds as its capital, was endorsed and welcomed by the United States and the European States. It is not enough, however, to merely welcome the initiative. We believe that implementing it would make a political settlement possible. Expressions of compassion and sympathy are welcome but they must be supported by concrete actions if a settlement is to be achieved. The Arab initiative includes all the essential principles necessary for a settlement, in accordance with the provisions of the Madrid Agreement and the principle of land for peace. Security Council resolution 1397 (2002) went even further in supporting the establishment of a Palestinian State that would be recognized by Israel. This was accompanied by an American proposal. If Israel rejects this comprehensive and fair proposal, how much longer can it expect to continue in this climate of animosity towards Arabs and constant threats to their security? How long can Israel continue to occupy Arab territory and prevent Palestinian refugees from returning home? The question of Palestine cannot be separated from the situation of the Arab States, given all that the issue represents for them and for their future. Israel must end the acts of aggression that it continues to perpetrate against Palestinians and their towns. The Israeli army is continuing to assassinate civilians and police and security officers. Sharon has been described as a man of peace, and it has been said that Israel has a right to self-defence, even as it continues to occupy Arab territories and commit massacres. The situation on the ground defies the imagination; it is very difficult to find a way to justify the American policy. If the threat of terrorism is allowed to rule our lives, the world will become a battlefield. In conclusion, we and the other Arab countries welcomed the American statement on the establishment of a Palestinian State. We reaffirm, however, that the borders of that State should be based on the demarcation line of 4 June 1967, in accordance with Council resolutions. Its sovereignty must be assured, and Israeli forces must be withdrawn from all the territory. We cannot agree to any temporary borders. 33 We want a lasting settlement in keeping with the Arab initiative put forward by Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia an initiative that is in keeping with relevant Security Council resolutions and with the principles of the peace process. We appreciate the role that the Quartet is playing in the peace process. No party should call upon the Palestinians alone to meet their demands. The Israeli forces must be called upon to revise their strategy and the Israeli side must end its assassinations and attacks against citizens and refrain from using collective economic sanctions, occupation and terrorism as a tool. Israel must halt its ongoing assault, lift the siege that has been imposed upon the Palestinian people and withdraw completely from the occupied territories so that the Palestinian Authority can implement the promised reforms and hold elections in the West Bank and Gaza, as well as in Al-Quds, under international auspices. There should be an international presence to guarantee the protection of the Palestinian people. This is a matter of urgency; the siege that is impeding the daily life of our citizens must be lifted.  ﻿In an imperfect world, our citizens need the United Nations as they have never needed it before. The United Nations has not resolved all conflicts by peaceful means, nor could it. The authority of the United Nations has to be underpinned by the force of arms. But the remarkable achievement of this body has been to make the fine language of its Charter a force for good beyond just words; by this the United Nations has raised the bar against the illegitimate use of violence, by States and now by terrorists. In doing so, the United Nations has saved lives by the million and saved millions more from fear, poverty and tyranny. Without the United Nations, there could have been no salvation for the people of East Timor, no prospect of lasting peace in Sierra Leone, no one to help rebuild Afghanistan. Forty years ago, President John F. Kennedy predicted a world in which 25 States would have nuclear weapons. But the Non- Proliferation Treaty, supported by international safeguards, has ensured that this nightmare scenario has failed to materialize. All this should serve to remind us of the critical role which the United Nations has to play in world affairs, under its excellent Secretary-General, Kofi Annan. It is the responsibility of all of us here in the Assembly to ensure that the legitimacy, the authority and the capacity of the United Nations to preserve peace and to help build prosperity is strengthened and not undermined. Today, alongside the traditional threats to global peace and security, the United Nations and the world community face three rising challenges: failing States, terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. The world saw in Afghanistan the graphic dangers of State failure, where order breaks down, law is undermined and anarchy takes over. We in the international community must accept our share of the blame for allowing that country to disintegrate. Al Qaeda and their evil creed were only too willing to take advantage. But we delude ourselves if we believe that the chaos in Afghanistan over much of the last decade is unique. In too many areas of the world, our fellow citizens are forced to live under the rule of gangs, without the security and freedoms which we all should be able to take for granted. If we are serious about the concept of an international community, then, as Members of the United Nations, we must accept our responsibility to help prevent States from failing and to restore order where States have already collapsed. The United Kingdom's own experience in Afghanistan, as the International Security Assistance 12 Force (ISAF) lead nation, working with the United Nations, shows what can be done; but we all know that much more needs to be done. We need a much more structured and methodical approach to this growing problem of failed and failing States. But the tools are there. At Monterrey in March and at Johannesburg earlier this month, the world community has built on the Millennium Development Goals to reduce poverty among the world's most disadvantaged people. We are backing this commitment with action. Between 1996 and 2006 the United Kingdom will have doubled its development assistance. Together with the Doha Round of the World Trade Organization (WTO), we have within our grasp a new era of sustainable economic growth and prosperity, a stable political future for the developing world and a much more secure global environment. But people cannot be freed from poverty unless they are also free from fear. Security is not an option; it is a necessity. Three years ago over half of Sierra Leone was under the control of rebels; over half the population was displaced; countless civilians had been murdered, abducted or horribly mutilated; a spiral of sickness and hunger was taking over. Now, thanks to United Nations and British intervention to end that decade-long civil war, people are returning home and rebuilding their shattered lives. But long-term commitment is necessary in situations like that. As we found in Afghanistan, when we deal with failing States, we have to tackle the second challenge to international law and justice — that of global terrorism — as well. All the nations of the world, and all its people — black, white, Buddhist, Christian, Jew, Muslim, Hindu and Sikh — have a common interest in defeating terrorism. There must be no hiding places for terrorism or for terrorists; no hiding places for their money; and no semantic hiding places either. The distinction some claim between terrorists and freedom-fighters is false and dangerous. Their victims enjoy no such distinction. There must be no such distinctions either in international law. Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) created new obligations on all of us. The United Kingdom has been honoured to chair the Counter-Terrorism Committee. There has been an overwhelmingly positive response. But, as we recall those who lost their lives on 11 September last year, we cannot relax our collective determination. Alongside the threats from failing States and from terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses the greatest current threat to global security, and nowhere is the case for universal support for the enforcement of United Nations law stronger than in the field of weapons of mass destruction. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention comprise one of the world's most significant bodies of international law. For the past three decades, this corpus of law has ensured — with one infamous exception — that no States have resorted to these, the world's worst weapons. That exception is Iraq. For two decades, Saddam Hussein's regime has defied and frustrated every attempt to enforce the international rule of law. Iraq is the only country to be condemned by the United Nations for breaching the Convention on Chemical Weapons. Iraq has fought wars of aggression against two neighbours, and has launched missile attacks against five countries in the region. Iraq has used poison gas against its own people. Saddam Hussein has persistently mocked the authority of the United Nations. No country has deceived every other country in the world as systematically and cynically as Iraq. And no country presents as fundamental a challenge to the United Nations as Iraq. Every society, from the smallest village to the global community represented here in the General Assembly, must have rules, and every member of that community must accept responsibility for respecting and maintaining those rules. Without this, the very concept of community breaks down. So those of us who believe in an active international community cannot stand by and do nothing while Iraq continues to defy the will of the United Nations. All of us who believe in the United Nations have to make up our minds now about how to deal with Iraq. The authority of the United Nations itself is at stake. We cannot let Iraq do grave damage to this Organization and the international order which it represents. We cannot let Iraq go on defying a decade of Security Council resolutions. If we do, we will find that our resolutions are dismissed by aggressors everywhere as mere words. We have spent 57 years 13 building this Organization beyond a talking shop. We cannot now let that work be undone. There are times when hard choices have to be made. On Iraq, we have now reached such a moment. If we fail to deal with this challenge, the United Nations itself will be seriously weakened. And that would make the world a much more dangerous place. As President Bush spelled out in his powerful speech to the Assembly here on Thursday, we have to be resolute in the face of Iraq's defiance and secure the will of the United Nations. We must require Iraq to re- admit inspectors, with unfettered access. We have not just an interest but a responsibility to ensure that Iraq complies fully with international law. We have to be clear to Iraq and to ourselves about the consequences which will flow from a failure by Iraq to meet its obligations. And yes, in dealing with the threat posed by Iraq we must also tackle those other international challenges outlined so eloquently by Kofi Annan in his address. Over the past year we have seen a further deterioration in security in Israel and in the occupied territories. There has never been a greater need for international involvement in the Middle East peace process to secure the outcome we all want to see: two States, Israel and Palestine living side by side within secure and recognized borders, based on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002). In Kashmir, we should continue to urge both India and Pakistan to act with restraint, and to seek to resolve that long-running conflict. At the end of the cold war we had all hoped that future generations would be able to enjoy a world where cooperation rather than conflict was the hallmark of international affairs. That goal is still within reach, if we are united in tackling State failure, in the war against terrorism and in confronting those threats of weapons of mass destruction. The tasks facing the founders of this institution were no less intimidating. Yet their combination of high values and hard-headed realism created the greatest instrument in history for the avoidance of war. Our founders' achievement has been formidable. But the Organization now faces new and emerging threats. We have to confront those threats and be ever alive to the challenges which are out there to peace and justice across the world. All of us who believe in those principles of international law and justice have a duty to ensure that they are both upheld and enforced.   ﻿A year ago the entire world watched in horror as terror was visited on the city that plays host to the United Nations. It is a city that has welcomed people from all corners of the world for hundreds of years and that still remains for many an irresistible magnet as a place of opportunity. We watched all of us, from our different parts of the world as the terrible events unfolded. If there had been any doubt before, that experience convinced all of us that our world had indeed become a global village. Modern technology enabled all of us simultaneously to watch the events as they unfolded. The devastation and drama of those events have since forcefully brought grief to our individual hearts, across continents, races, religions and political ideologies. If ever there was any doubt about mankind's shared humanity, that catastrophe conclusively dispelled it. A year on, we still bear the deep scars; we have not forgotten, and we dare not forget, because what happened was not directed exclusively against New York and the people of the United States. Nationals of many countries, including Ghanaians, perished in that tragedy. What happened was indeed an affront to civilization itself. Throughout the ages, whenever humanity has found itself confronted with great danger, it is the sense of unity and common purpose that has pulled us through. This is no exception. Indeed, the resilience of New York and of the people of the United States has brought about a spirit of solidarity and generosity that is just as awesome to behold as the tragic event itself. It is for that reason that I am optimistic about the future. The work of the United Nations and of non- governmental organizations, and the growing acceptance of the principles of good governance, human rights, tolerance for a diversity of views and the rule of law around the globe make me optimistic. In my mind's eye, I can already see, in the near future, a world in which there is more openness, more forbearance and less categorization of mankind. Our nations have been brought together by science, technology and conscience, as well as by 4 adversity, and the acknowledgement of interdependence among peoples has become a reality. Now we are moving from the concept of beggar thy neighbour' to one of prosper thy neighbour', which should become the hallmark of the global village. Sadly, the continent of Africa still lags behind in many spheres, as poverty and disease plague the continent. But there is a new spirit abroad among the African countries. Africa has never wanted to be perceived as the scar on the conscience of the world'. We do not want to be the object of pity and charity, and we do not want to provide the grisly images of war, disease, ignorance, famine and poverty for the world's television screens. It was largely as a result of our determination to shed that unacceptable image that many a country on the continent, on attaining independence, desperately rushed into one or another untried ideology or economic model that tended only to worsen the woes of self-doubt left by exploitative and unconscionable colonialism. Today, under the auspices of the African Union, the rejuvenated continental grouping, our countries have resolved to tackle the continent's problems to enable us join the mainstream of world development. We have pledged to endeavour to be honest with each other, and under the Peer Review Mechanism there will be no hiding behind claims of sovereignty in order to tolerate abuses of human rights in individual countries. We are determined to strive for democracy and good governance, not because those are fashionable buzzwords but because we are convinced that they are the surest if not always the most rapid path to the development that we require to uplift the conditions of life of our peoples. The technology exists and the human expertise abounds in the world to end the degrading poverty and debilitating diseases that sap the confidence of the peoples of Africa. This world Assembly must rally to help Africa in its genuine efforts to tap into the intellectual, financial and moral resources of the globe, to be a worthy partner within it. The concept of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) provides the framework within which African countries can be assisted to become part of the mainstream. It provides a great opportunity for world leaders to move from rhetoric to purposeful action. Education has served as a route out of poverty for people throughout the ages, and it should be the way out for us in Africa as well. We have an essentially young population that is ready and anxious to learn. Fortunately, information and communications technology provides the means to help Africa leap-frog into the modern world. Let the world community therefore assist Africa to join in the mastery of this powerful tool. Ours is a well-endowed continent. Our raw materials keep the manufacturing engines of the world running. The reasons for investing in Africa, therefore, need not be charitable; investment can be based on sound economic considerations. The market potential of a thriving and economically viable Africa will do wonders not only for Africa but also for the world economy at large. I am optimistic, because I think of what Ghana and the African continent have contributed to the development of the world. We have provided, and continue to provide, personnel in various fields to all kinds of institutions in the world. Ghanaian academics and citizens from many other African countries can be found in many top universities and companies around the world, contributing significantly to the development of cutting-edge enterprises. Africans are in various jobs and are making a considerable contribution to the running of organizations, including the United Nations. I would like to take this opportunity to express Ghana's and Africa's deepest gratitude to the international community for the confidence it showed in re-electing Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, to a second term. In all these endeavours, however, the missing link for Africa has been the solid and sustainable framework for good governance to support the purposeful evolution of prosperous and stable nations on the continent. It is for this reason that Ghana, like other African nations, is trying to put its house in order to take advantage of emerging prospects. We are nurturing our infant democracy, and the citizens are passionately committed to the defence of the Constitution. We are putting in place mechanisms to support good governance. The institutional framework is being created to ensure an efficient public sector that can interface effectively with an enterprising private sector to create wealth and eliminate poverty. But Ghana, like other developing countries, cannot alone achieve the dramatic rate of growth that is required; there must be significant injections of outside 5 investment into our economy. We need affordable and sustainable sources of energy to be able to achieve rapid development. We need the partnership, markets and support of the international community to sustain our development. That is the message of NEPAD. We are working to develop a positive economic environment to receive and integrate foreign direct investment as a tool for regional development. That is the sure path for Africa to connect effectively with the global markets. Ghana acknowledges its share of responsibility to protect the resources that Nature has given our country as the heritage of all humankind. The world cannot and must not operate on the basis of the survival of the fittest. Weaknesses caused by history and other factors must be taken into account and, above all, our common humanity must inform all our international dealings. Ghana sees a lot of potential in globalization. We wish to recommend, however, that an organization such as the United Nations should provide the regulatory framework to ensure that the benefits of globalization are more equitably distributed. The opportunities are enormous for those who can take advantage of the move to more liberalized markets and increased flows of investment capital. But nature did not make all people equally competitive. That global organization must, therefore, evolve systems of safety nets to guarantee all humanity an acceptable minimum degree of dignity and respectability. The United Nations must rise up to this challenge. For the pure and proper development of the global village, certain initiatives by this Organization must be commended and encouraged. Ghana is in full support of United Nations effort to curb the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. We urge Member States to join in the early implementation of the Programme of Action that was adopted in 2001 to stop this trade, from which most of the instability in Africa stems. Secondly, women and children need our protection. It is for that very reason that in Ghana we have created a Ministry for Women and Childrenës Affairs to enable us tackle issues that affect those two groups. We have embarked on a vibrant educational campaign and are pursuing policy initiatives that will create awareness and reduce the incidence of discrimination against women and help improve their livelihoods. We are also striving to ban child labour and enforce free and compulsory education for all children up to the junior secondary school level as enjoined by Ghanaës national Constitution. Thirdly, I must mention the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which is threatening the survival of our countries. The spread of the disease is compounding our difficulties even further. I wish to pay tribute to the Secretary- General for his interest, and for the setting up of the Global Fund to help us fight the menace. The Ghana AIDS Commission is constantly seeking new ways to change attitudes at all levels towards the disease, and we seek to learn from the experience of others in combating it. We support the efforts of the international community to provide more affordable antiretroviral drugs for the most needy. At this stage, permit me to congratulate Switzerland on its accession to membership, and East Timor on its forthcoming accession. That Switzerland has at long last joined the Organization confirms its universality. They are welcome. The tragedy of 11 September has certainly made a difference to the world. It has shocked the world into uniting to condemn it. Let those of us who have accepted the honour and privilege to speak on behalf of our peoples determine that we must strive for a world of greater tolerance and of more justice, a more humane world in which law and order are fully respected both within nations and in the international community. Eleven September must be used to underpin the vital communal spirit that must motivate the global village. We would then be able to say that we had left the world a better place than we found it.  ﻿The delegation of Cameroon welcomes the unanimous vote that conferred upon the Czech Republic the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. Current circumstances may not be conducive to optimism, but the peoples of the United Nations are continuing to make progress towards the future. The heads of State or Government of the countries of the world mapped out the contours of that future during the Millennium Summit. They called for a future world in which humankind can live free from all fears and free from want. I am convinced that, given your excellent qualities, Mr. President, you, like your predecessor, will contribute to strengthening cohesion and peace among all States and peoples. Cameroon welcomes the new additions to our family. Switzerland, our friend, has taken up the United Nations banner, and the young Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste will soon be joining it. I should also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who, through his tireless efforts and commitment, is consolidating, day by day, the credibility and vitality of the United Nations in the eyes of its Member States and, more broadly, in international public opinion. The United Nations, as never before, is a place for coordination, research, action and vigilance in favour of international peace and security. Our steadfast and determined commitment against terrorism in the aftermath of the tragic events of 11 September 2001 is proof of this. Cameroon has acceded to the conventional instruments adopted by the United Nations immediately after that tragedy. We also associate ourselves fully with the resolutions that are now enabling the gradual emergence of a new Afghanistan — one of liberty and modernity for its people. The fight against the destructive, indiscriminate and persistent evil of terrorism must be viewed in the long term in each of our countries and be based on decisions agreed to at the international level. That is why Cameroon fully supports the convening of a high- level conference to develop a joint response by the international community to terrorism. Such a fight must not be merely a knee-jerk response. It will also require the adoption of a comprehensive approach that takes into account all the 32 factors of imbalance and injustice that can lead to such criminal activity. It is for that reason that President Paul Biya appealed to the community of nations “to calm the international situation by doing away with injustice, which can provide a fertile ground for intolerance. Such a realistic step will enable us to eradicate the causes of dissatisfaction and revolt that, if unresolved, can lead to despair and, at worst, to terrorism”. In the same spirit, we believe that our common offensive on terrorism must rest on legal measures agreed to by all States, as well as on the effective implementation of commitments undertaken in the Millennium Declaration. We should recall that such commitments are aimed at providing further solidarity among nations and at reducing the gap between rich and poor countries. Firmness without justice can only promote feelings of frustration and will leave the problem unresolved. Since becoming a member of the Security Council, the pre-eminent body of our Organization, on 1 January, Cameroon has made every effort to give credence to the doctrine of a twin-track approach to peace and security. Combating international terrorism will require the sincere and effective participation of all States Members of the United Nations. This in turn will require an environment of peace, stability and security among Member States. As a result, we must, whatever the cost, find a solution to the conflicts and tensions that, in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, continue to drive fault lines through international relations, among countries in the same region and even within certain States. As with the fight against international terrorism, the mobilization of the international community against crises and armed conflicts must involve both resolute action and openness. Cameroon is especially concerned about the delicate question of sanctions, which are affecting several countries. Sanctions must be targeted so as to spare innocent civilians, while the concerns of third States, which can be indirect victims, must also be taken into account. We believe the Security Council would benefit if sanctions were viewed more favourably. This could be achieved by according them further legitimacy, which would enable them to have the credibility essential to their effectiveness. As for the institutional reform of the United Nations, which Cameroon, like many other countries, has been urging, special mention must be made of the inevitable expansion of Security Council membership. Such reforms of the principal decision-making body of the United Nations would permit a more integrated approach with regard to serious regional questions and the multilateral challenges that flow from globalization. Cameroon is convinced that an overwhelming majority of Member States are willing and able to carry out these reforms. That very ability and will have been demonstrated by the establishment of the International Criminal Court; the first session of the Assembly of States Parties to the Statute has just been held here. We cannot overemphasize the need for solidarity to unify our nations. Support for the development of the countries of the South must remain a priority, as must synergy among our States in order to define a vigorous policy for environmental protection. We have never had so many summits on these major challenges. Yet it must be noted that we have seldom adequately met the tremendous expectations of millions of women and children, the great majority of whom continue to live in precarious circumstances and with great fear for the future of the Earth. We must ponder our failures. We must react with a surge of voluntarism that will enable us to launch a determined attack on such great pandemics as HIV/AIDS. That is the path charted by the first ladies of Africa, who, upon the invitation of Mrs. Chantal Biya, will meet in Yaoundé on 15 and 16 November to establish and launch, with the help of renowned researchers and scientists, a non-governmental organization called Synergies africaines contre le Sida et les autres souffrances. At that launching, Professors Robert Gallo and Luc Montagnier will moderate a scientific symposium on AIDS. In order to combat fanaticism, we must cultivate fidelity to humankind. Such fidelity must be ongoing. According to a wise African saying, “the past and the present become one in the single desire to preserve mankind”. Today more than ever, it is our duty to affirm our fidelity to our peoples without ever forgetting the fundamental virtues on which the universal fabric of mankind's aspirations and dreams is 33 woven. I recall that we have the urgent duty to forge the future that was shaped by our heads of State at the Millennium Summit — a world in which mankind will finally be free of fear, of all fears, and in which mankind shall never want. Let us build a dream together. Let us dream together of that future full of hope. We would remind those who scorn such dreams that, in the beginning, there was a dream. To them, we would reiterate George Bernard Shaw's words: “Some men see things as they are and say why? I dream things that never were and say ‘Why not?'” In the beginning, there was a dream.   ﻿Many of the heads of State that have preceded me at this rostrum have been eloquent in expressing their open condemnation of terrorism, their prescriptions for the eradication of extreme poverty, their vision for a new international order that will ensure peace and security in the world and their reservations about a globalization process that, if poorly understood, will in the end make the gap between rich and poor unbridgeable. We want to stress above all the urgent need to take action and to begin to commit new and greater financial resources to development. We must strengthen our common bond and work together to try to find solutions to the problems that affect us all. We, the poor countries, are asked to practise austerity and fiscal discipline, respect the rules of the 2 free market and free trade and cooperate in the fight against the scourges that afflict humankind. When we try to obtain access to the major markets for our goods, however, the door is slammed shut. We are asked to be competitive, but when we take the fruits of our labour to the market, subsidies amounting to millions of dollars are placed in our way, making it impossible for us to even hope to compete. We are asked to participate in the fight against drug trafficking, but we have not been given the resources promised us to enable us to carry out our action plans. When we try to negotiate in a serious and creative way with international lending agencies, attempts are made to impose terms on us — terms that, if accepted, would dangerously weaken our young and sometimes fragile democracies. People don't understand: our peoples, in their poverty, are quite perceptive, but they still cannot understand how they can benefit from a globalization process that may never knock at their doors. We, the leaders of the developing countries, are severely criticized when, upon our return from summits and forums, we have only meagre results to show, and when the resolve to provide support and cooperation is weakened because of the actions of a few with respect to a consensus declaration. I want to be very clear and simple in expressing my thoughts in this universal forum: hypocrisy, inequity, injustice, increased poverty and failure to take action, among other ills, are the main reasons for breaches of the peace. They create a framework in which violence, sectarian extremism and misunderstanding find fertile ground. The developed world has found new and discriminatory methods — in financial, social and ethical terms — of categorizing our countries. Some are willing to perpetuate this perverse way of categorizing us on the basis of criteria laid down by those that have more than we do. We are criticized for a lack of transparency and for some alleged lack of respect for the law, while enormous losses are piling up owing to corruption. Could it be that the very foundations of the capital system have been seriously damaged by the scandals that have taken place in the wealthier and more powerful nations? Our emigrants are discriminated against, and some forget how the most prosperous nations managed to create their identities through the mixing of races or by opening their arms to those yearning for progress and freedom. Developed countries demand the strengthening of our institutions and they get quite lyrical in their support for democratic processes, which often take forms that lead only to instability. We must break paradigms, and we must do it now. We must not persist in simplifying, relying on a purely economic vocabulary, all the benefits of a globalization process that is still not understood by all, nor assimilated in each of its components. We speak of free flows of capitals, but these flows only take the form of transfers of investments in the Northern Hemisphere. We countries in the Southern Hemisphere have typically received these same capitals in the form of expensive loans, whose heavy burden it has been impossible to alleviate over time. When the North looks to the South, it sees it with paternalistic and patronizing eyes. The widely publicized equity in the terms of exchange is only visible in statements, manuals and textbooks of developed countries. What we need is a new global ethic, one that repudiates terrorism but helps, with the same strength and resolve, give substance to our creative efforts to eradicate poverty, a poverty that threatens the most basic principles of human dignity. When food is lacking, when there is no health or education, and when the survival instinct itself is limited, very little or nothing can be done to pursue values and ideals cherished by any developed society. My country condemns terrorism. My government supports every effort to eradicate it, but Ecuador also demands the creation of a new coalition and a new order to fight against poverty. This is a new century, a century of solidarity and hope. But we must also make this century a century of respect on the part of all nations for the principles that govern international law. Yes, it is a new century, a century in which all activities that violate the sanctity of human life are condemned and prosecuted. There is no justification whatsoever for taking the lives of innocent persons. We must work with all forces available, together under the law, to fight this scourge. This is also a century of changes of attitudes and of proposals, a time in which we must resolve definitively the problem of the debt of the poorest 3 countries towards the developed countries. It must be a time of opportunity to build a fairer world, a world of solidarity. As a global citizen, I am concerned that the commitment to ensure the very existence of the planet is not shared equitably by all. Everything is demanded of those of us who have great diversity and renewable resources, but, in return, we are denied the financial tools to seek alternative resources for a development not entailing the destruction of our natural resources, as if this commitment to the environment should fall on our shoulders alone. We must fight to improve the quality of life on earth. But the beneficiaries of this struggle must be every man and woman on earth, and not only those with the good fortune to have been born in the North. Ecuador, which I am honoured to represent in this Assembly, is a country committed to the most noble causes of the international community. No effort will be spared to enable our people to reach a human society in which men, women and children, without distinction, without exclusion, can develop fully and flourish. Ecuador wants to be an ethical model that looks to the future. We wish to see the voice of reason heard in every global forum. We want to create a world of freedom, a more just and united society. We would like, from the centre of the two hemispheres, to be a bridge uniting North and South, two regions that should walk together towards development and not be separated by geographic conventions. Thank you so much, distinguished delegates, for this extraordinary opportunity to address the world community. Thank you for your continuing efforts to make the United Nations the highest forum of international debate. My country and my Government view this body as the highest forum for debate and for the settlement of those problems that constantly affect humankind.   ﻿It is imperative, now more than ever before, that all the peoples of the world act in a spirit of solidarity. The United Nations embodies this spirit. In joining the United Nations, Switzerland sends you a message of solidarity. This makes me proud and happy. I would like to add my thanks to those expressed last Tuesday by Kaspar Villiger, the President of the Swiss Confederation, on the occasion of Switzerland's formal admission to the United Nations. I would also like to thank all the Members of the United Nations for the warm welcome they have given my country. Switzerland feels welcomed. We feel that we are where we belong. I would also like to give Secretary-General Kofi Annan my profound thanks. His sincerity and wisdom contributed greatly to convincing the people of Switzerland of the need to join the United Nations. I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election. I already know and value your qualities and talents and I know that you will put them to the best service of the United Nations. Switzerland is pleased to be working with you towards the success of this session of the General Assembly. The Swiss people have decided to join the United Nations. They have said yes' to increased cooperation with the United Nations. They have said yes' to a stronger international commitment. They have said yes' to taking greater responsibility for meeting the challenges that face humankind. The challenges facing the international community at the beginning of the twenty-first century are immense. A number of regions suffer from terrible poverty. Crises and wars are rife on all continents. There are millions of refugees. We see the hideous face of terrorism. Criminal networks exploit human beings and traffic shamefully in drugs and arms. New diseases are emerging and, day after day, we continue to destroy the Earth's ecological balance. There are no simple answers to any of these problems, but there is a place where we can all meet to find solutions: the United Nations. The world needs a strong United Nations, as it is the only universal Organization working at the global level. It alone can analyse problems at the world level. It alone can create a consensus between States on common goals. Finally, as stressed by the Secretary-General, there is no substitute for the unique international legitimacy provided to principles and choices of action by the United Nations. Switzerland has joined the United Nations as a neutral country and we intend to remain neutral. Our neutral status, however, in no way diminishes our desire for cooperation. On the contrary, it is an advantage for our peace activities. Our membership of the United Nations is not a change in direction, but the logical consequence of our foreign policy. To quote our Constitution, the Swiss Confederation is committed Ö to a just and peaceful international order'. The principal aim of the United Nations is to maintain international peace and security. For us, therefore, the United Nations is the ideal place to carry out this vital mission. As a Member of the United Nations, Switzerland will devote itself resolutely to international peace and security. That commitment will be focused, above all, on armed 27 conflicts. The logic of armed conflicts today forces us to adopt a multidimensional approach to peace processes. If we are to succeed, we must work in several different areas in parallel: military, diplomatic, humanitarian and economic. We must also involve all interested players in the process. All this demands a major effort of coordination, and Switzerland will contribute to that. Security problems, moreover, must be addressed from a broader angle that of human security. The inhabitants of this world must be able to live without fear of war, starvation and despotism. In particular, we must protect vulnerable individuals and groups. Switzerland will therefore pursue its efforts in favour of human security. This includes stopping the recruitment of child soldiers, eliminating anti- personnel mines and halting the proliferation of small arms. In this context, I welcome the Secretary- General's appeal to make full use of multilateral institutions. This is especially valid for the maintenance of international peace and security. There is only one source of legitimacy for the use of force: the United Nations. Iraq has been discussed on several occasions during these past days. There is undeniably a need to act, and to act with determination, in order to ensure the implementation of United Nations resolutions, but action must be taken together, within the United Nations. Only the United Nations can confer international legitimacy to any action against Iraq. Switzerland is convinced that peace and development can be sustained only if they go hand in hand with freedom, democracy, and respect for human rights. Human dignity is our most precious asset. It must be defended at all times and in all places. We will champion this conviction at the United Nations to the full and without concessions. For as long as men and women are exploited, children are mistreated and the death penalty is carried out, Switzerland will do everything within its power to defend human dignity. At the General Assembly this year, we will strive in particular to promote the adoption of the draft optional protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. This protocol is needed to give better protection to people in detention against torture and mistreatment. That is why we have been supporting this initiative for years. In its capacity as the Depositary State, Switzerland feels a special responsibility to promote awareness of and respect for the Geneva Conventions and their Additional Protocols. At the United Nations, we will continue tirelessly to defend these instruments. In this area, Switzerland has submitted to a number of countries involved in the Middle East conflict a proposal which aims to ensure the better implementation of international humanitarian law. We advocate two mechanisms: one for promoting dialogue to allow the parties to settle problems concerning the application of international humanitarian law; the second, a mechanism to monitor respect for humanitarian law. We are also convinced that the International Criminal Court will ensure the better application of international humanitarian law. This new Court is an essential tool for dealing with serious violations of the fundamental human freedoms. We will therefore remain on our guard to ensure that it can function efficiently and we will pursue our efforts to convince those States that have not yet signed the Rome Statute of the need for such a Court. Two days ago, we commemorated the tragic events that shook the United States and the world one year ago. The causes of terrorism must be eradicated. I am thinking, inter alia, of injustice, disregard for the rights of minorities, and poverty. That is one of the objectives of our development cooperation and of our human rights policy. Sustainable development and the elimination of poverty remain mankind's main challenges today. We saw that again at Johannesburg. They are global challenges that require a global strategy and global solidarity. In other words, they require coordinated action by the United Nations institutions, as well as greater cooperation between the United Nations, the development banks, civil society and the private sector. Development cooperation must be coordinated. Switzerland will contribute to strengthening the coordination efforts vital to ensuring that our activities enjoy the success they merit. The struggle against poverty also requires greater exchange of expertise and better transfer of technology. Switzerland is closely involved in the preparation of the World Summit on the Information Society, the first 28 phase of which will take place in Geneva in 2003. The main challenge of that Summit is the very gap between North and South in terms of access to new information technologies. Therefore, I call on all to contribute actively to the success of that conference. These thoughts lead me to refer to Geneva, the international city that is a close and longstanding link between my country and the United Nations. Switzerland is proud and grateful to be able to host the European Headquarters of the United Nations and many specialized agencies. Geneva is the main international hub of disarmament, humanitarian aid, social development, the promotion of human rights and environmental protection. That gives me great pleasure, because Swiss citizens are particularly concerned about these issues. However, that also involves the special responsibility of offering international organizations optimum working and living conditions. You can also count on Switzerland in that area. Before Switzerland became a Member, the United Nations was already a universal Organization, but with Switzerland and soon Timor-Leste the United Nations will be even more universal. The United Nations is the greatest world forum. Switzerland will provide it its full support in the interests of humanity and the interests of we, the peoples of the United Nations.﻿I would like to thank you, Sir, for giving me the floor. Allow me to congratulate you warmly on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We have no doubt that your experience, wisdom and infinite patience will lead us to a successful outcome of the work of this session. Through you, allow me to congratulate Mr. Hans Seung-soo on his presidency over the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, which he conducted with skill and ability. I would also like to thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who leads the Secretariat at a very delicate and difficult time in the history of the Organization, a time when it faces many challenges, pressures and a serious situation of threats to international peace and security. I am honoured and pleased to congratulate our sister State of East Timor on its independence and accession to the United Nations, which represents the hope of all the peoples of the world to achieve their freedom. I would also like to warmly welcome the Swiss Confederation, which has become a full Member of the United Nations. Since the convening of the last session, we have seen very important events in the international arena, in the wake of the terrorist attack against the World Trade Centre in New York. That led to unprecedented complications in politics and international relations. Those political and social changes are accelerating and lead daily to new patterns of conflict. With respect to combating terrorism, Qatar, as the Chair of the ninth Islamic summit, called for an emergency meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Organization of the Islamic Conference in Doha in October 2001. That Conference clearly condemned all acts of international terrorism, including State terrorism. It also affirmed the urgent need to agree upon an international definition of terrorism, distinguishing between terrorism and legitimate resistance to foreign aggression and occupation for the purpose of national liberation and self-determination. I would like to recall from this rostrum that we are fully convinced of the validity of the United Nations Charter and of the leading role played by the Organization in the maintenance of international peace and security, as well as in ensuring the development, prosperity and dignity of humankind. Here, we have to refer firmly to the need for the work of the Security Council to be transparent and the need to renounce the selective implementation of the provisions of the United Nations Charter. There is no escaping reviewing the permanent membership of the Security Council so that a select few will not be able to continue to use the veto, which can literally invalidate the opinions of all others, while the United Nations preaches democracy, participation, justice and equality. The practices of the Organization must be completely impartial. The needed measures for the maintenance of international peace and security must be applied to all without exception and without preferential treatment. We cannot allow the resolutions of the Security Council to be based on double standards or to be selective in a way that allows Israel not to implement the resolutions adopted by the Security Council and the General Assembly. We cannot accept that the people of Palestine and the Arab people in the occupied Syrian Golan Heights and in the south of Lebanon are falling prey to the barbaric aggression of the Israeli occupation forces before the eyes of the whole world and world public opinion. Israel violates the resolutions of international law, rejecting them without any reaction from the Security Council or any organs of the United Nations to put an end to it. We observe closely and with concern the deteriorating security situation in the Palestinian territories and the blatant challenge to the international community and international laws and norms posed by the siege of President Arafat and the legitimate, elected leadership of the Palestinian people. We observe with concern the assassination, abduction and arrest of Palestinian leaders, as well as the demolition of houses on the heads of women, children and the elderly. We watch closely and with concern the attacks on holy places, which have been condemned by all states and representatives of international humanitarian organizations, including the International Committee of 29 the Red Cross, which strongly deplored and condemned those attacks. The actions of Israeli forces in Jenin and Gaza and the massacres perpetrated there constitute blatant violations of modern international humanitarian law, international human rights and international conventions, particularly the Fourth Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War of 1949. If it really intends to achieve security, Israel must take the route of peace by implementing the resolutions of international law: the resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly. They all provide for the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to achieve their legitimate national aspirations, including self-determination and the establishment of an independent State on its national territory with East Jerusalem as its capital. Those resolutions also call for the withdrawal from the occupied Syrian territory of the Golan to the line of 4 June 1967, as well as from the rest of occupied Lebanese territory. Among the prerequisites required to ensure a prosperous life for humankind is the basic right to live without discrimination based on ethnicity, race, colour, ideology, language, wealth or social origin. As a people who believe in a revealed religion, we believe in respecting human rights, because, in addition to our common laws, we have a divine law, laid down in the Koran, that tells us to respect such rights. In Qatar, we protect and maintain human rights and have made them the standard for our religion and for our progress. Many countries accuse certain organizations that profess concern for human rights of bias, selectivity and double standards because they concentrate on political and civil rights without paying any heed to economic, social or cultural rights, which are no less important than civil or political rights. Important as they are, civil and political rights may become devoid of content if we fail to pay heed to the other rights. Qatar has made many advances in the protection of human rights, of the rule of law and of the principles of democracy and Shura, as well as good governance. We have just completed a new national Constitution that provides for public freedoms and free parliamentary elections. It also, for the first time, gives women the full right to vote and to be represented. We in the Middle East are threatened by a clear imbalance of power. Israel is the only country in the region that possesses an arsenal of nuclear weapons and refuses to accede to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We appeal to all peace-loving countries to demand that Israel accede to the Treaty and submit its nuclear installations to the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency. At the present time, we see a positive direction in certain international issues. With regard to the situation in Iraq, we welcome that country's acceptance of the return of international inspectors and its avowed commitment to implement relevant Security Council resolutions and to resume dialogue with the United Nations. We reaffirm the need to maintain Iraq's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and we hope that resumed dialogue will lead to a comprehensive solution and to a suspension of and ultimately an end to the sanctions, which are causing great suffering among the Iraqi people. Another example of what the United Nations must do to right current wrongs is the complete lifting of the sanctions imposed on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, which has fulfilled its obligations and surrendered the wanted suspects. As we meet today, developing countries are experiencing serious economic difficulties that are negatively affecting their development in an environment of heavy foreign debt and declining official development assistance. They are also facing restrictions on their exports to world markets and unfair prices for their basic commodities. Africa's economic situation is still very serious, despite all the efforts of African countries and of the international community to overcome that continent's development problems. The economic situation is worsening, and foreign debt is increasing. Whatever economic gains are achieved must therefore be spent on debt servicing and on correcting the imbalance resulting from the reverse flow of resources. Africa is also the continent that is suffering most from HIV/AIDS. We support the efforts of the Secretary-General, and we greatly value his initiatives to reform the United Nations. With regard to the reform programme proposed in 1997 and approved by the General Assembly, we note with concern that its development goals have yet to be achieved. We have witnessed a 30 continuous decline in financing that has led to the reduction of development programmes. We believe that the Organization's socio-economic development activities must be given highest priority, in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Charter. Without development, there will no lasting peace or security. The Millennium Declaration set out many objectives, including that of achieving sustainable economic development and, in particular, sustainable human development, with human beings as its crucial element. Accordingly, human development is the major topic of the high-level segment of the Economic and Social Council's current substantive session. The Millennium Declaration objectives of eradicating poverty, achieving economic development, halting the spread of HIV/AIDS and bringing that disease under control by 2015 all require our concerted effort and political will. In addition, the voluntary contributions and direct financial investment flows of local and international donors are required to achieve the objectives of the Monterrey Conference, the most important of which is the commitment by rich industrialized countries of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to official development assistance. Those countries made the same commitment at previous conferences. Here, I must mention the Doha Conference in the light of the importance it attached to free trade, market liberalization and infrastructure expansion in increasing the competitive ability of developing countries, in particular African countries. That Conference also emphasized the importance of the transfer of information and communications technology, economic diversity, foreign trade and increased market access, as well as increasing flows of foreign resources and reducing debt. Qatar has always opposed coercive, unilateral sanctions imposed by one single country on another sovereign country over which it has no legal jurisdiction. We believe that imposing sanctions on other countries with a view to serving economic interests or achieving political objectives represents a violation of the principles of equal sovereignty among states and self-determination, as provided for by the Charter of the United Nations and relevant United Nations resolutions. Therefore, Qatar reaffirms its categorical rejection of all attempts to implement local laws across borders on the citizens and companies of other States to force those countries to comply with unilateral economic measures that transcend the legal jurisdiction of States. That is in direct violation of international law, of the provisions of the Charter and of the rules of the World Trade Organization. The President: We have heard the last speaker in the general debate for this meeting.﻿On behalf of the people and the Government of Papua New Guinea, I join previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Your election to the helm of the Assembly shows the high esteem in which the international community holds you and your country, the Czech Republic. I take this opportunity to express my delegation's sincere appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo of South Korea, for his outstanding stewardship of the work of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I also wish to place on record my Government's deep appreciation to the Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his continuing strong leadership and immense diplomatic skill in dealing with many pressing international issues which confront us today. Papua New Guinea welcomes and congratulates the newest State Member of the United Nations, Switzerland, and looks forward to the accession to membership of the Democratic Republic of East Timor. Papua New Guinea acknowledges the political will and wisdom shown by all parties — the Republic of Indonesia, Australia, Portugal and the United Nations — in respect of East Timor. We also praise the people of Switzerland for their collective decision to formally join the United Nations. With the election of a new Government in my country, our Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Sir Michael Somare, recently made a nationwide address detailing some of the challenges facing our economy and what is required to put it back on the path to recovery. He identified specific areas and sectors where remedial measures are needed. Domestically, our capacity to meet these challenges and worthy goals is lacking. The problem is further exacerbated and our capacity further undermined by poor governance, incompetent economic management, a rise in corruption, and diminished public confidence in political leadership and in the fundamentals of representative government. The new Government of Papua New Guinea is determined to chart a new course by addressing these problems. There have been specific initiatives taken to enhance trade, investment and economic prospects. The Pacific countries members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Island Group of States (ACP), together with the African and Caribbean member States, are now in the process of pursuing negotiations with the European Union for possible economic partnership agreements. Recently, I announced the direction of our Government's foreign policy focus. I stated that the 27 policy must be underpinned by the development and strengthening of core relations in the Asia-Pacific region. We intend to consolidate relations with our close neighbours and give more emphasis to the promotion of trade and economic cooperation, investment, and education and training. As a small island developing country, and as an affected member of the global village, my country fully endorses the declarations and plans of action adopted at recent world conferences. We believe that international conferences such as the Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg summits and their plans of action are blueprints to resolve many of the pressing global challenges and needs, including poverty eradication; sustainable development; environmental degradation and climatic changes; and social ills, including HIV/ AIDS and other preventable diseases. They also echo the voices of the majority of the world's population living in poverty and struggling to overcome the biggest challenge of all — how to survive. These declarations and plans of action are a further amplification of the historic Millennium Declaration and its Development Goals, signed by all our heads of State and Government in September 2000. The challenge is to forge new global partnerships for change — partnerships in which both developed and developing countries join together to address the issues that the global community will face in this new millennium. These partnerships also include international financial institutions, intergovernmental organizations, the private sector, non-governmental organizations, and civil society. These partnerships will be necessary if the shared hopes of humanity for peace and security, sustainable development and a better way of life for all are to be realized. Papua New Guinea has been faced with an internal conflict in our province of Bougainville for the last decade. Like all previous Governments, the current Government will continue to address the continuing peaceful resolution of this conflict as a matter of priority. Papua New Guinea would like to take this opportunity to express its appreciation to the United Nations for its role in resolving this crisis. The conflict has, in fact, involved substantial commitments of personnel and funds by the United Nations, neighbouring countries and Governments, including our own. I would like also to place on record our appreciation to the Governments of Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Vanuatu for contributing financial and manpower resources to the Regional Peace Monitoring Group to restore peace and security to the island. In addition, on the recommendations of the Secretary-General, and in close cooperation between the Papua New Guinea Government and the Bougainville parties, the Security Council approved the expansion of the role of the United Nations Political Office in Bougainville in monitoring and assisting in the arms collection, storage and disposal, under the new Bougainville Agreement. I am happy to report that the first and second stages of the arms disposal programme are progressing well; however, more remains to be done. Our partners from Australia, New Zealand, the European Union, Japan, and the United Nations Development Programme continue to provide resources for restoration and development work. A number of non-governmental organizations, including churches and the Red Cross, have also been active. Changing the world from a system of relations between imperial Powers to a partnership between sovereign States through decolonization is among the greatest achievements of the United Nations in the last century. The process will not be completed, as it must be, until the remaining 16 Non-Self-Governing Territories have exercised their inalienable right to self- determination. Our Organization should continue to monitor developments in New Caledonia, Tokelau and the other 14 Non Self-Governing Territories on the United Nations decolonization list, on a case-by-case basis. Neither small size nor remoteness nor population density should be allowed to qualify or limit the exercise of this inalienable right. The Pacific Islands Forum Leaders' Meeting, held last month in Fiji, once again reaffirmed its support for this principle. The Pacific Islands Forum Group, with the exception of Australia and New Zealand, comprises of small island countries that are custodians of the largest ocean space. This ocean is rich in natural marine 28 resources. The countries of the region, however, have limited human, financial and technological capacities to control, manage, and secure those resources for the benefit of our current and future generations. The recent Pacific Islands Forum adopted the Pacific Islands Regional Oceans Policy, which aims to ensure the future sustainable use of our oceans and their resources by our island communities and external partners. The Pacific Islands peoples have not received their equitable share of the benefits resulting from the tapping of natural resources within their vast ocean space. For example, statistics showed that, in the year 2000, the value of fishery in the Central and Western Pacific was in excess of $2.5 billion per annum, but the Pacific countries earned a meagre $66 million in licensing fees. This situation needs to be reviewed and changed. More than 80 per cent of Papua New Guineans live in rural villages, where they depend directly on the land, rivers, lakes and sea for their livelihood. Our National Constitution commits the nation to conserve, use, and develop the rich variety of the country's natural resources for the common good and benefit of future generations. Papua New Guinea has therefore spoken out strongly and worked actively on a wide range of environmental issues. Like other members of the Pacific Islands Forum, Papua New Guinea is firmly committed to the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. We strongly urge its full implementation. Papua New Guinea, together with other small island developing States, continues to reiterate deep concerns about the adverse impacts of climate change, climate variability and sea-level rise, particularly with regard to the small, low-lying islands that are already experiencing extreme hardships. We will therefore continue to stress the urgent need for the developed countries to take a strong lead in the reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. Consistent with this, Papua New Guinea has signed and ratified both the United Nations Climate Change Convention and the Kyoto Protocol. We believe that the Kyoto Protocol paves the way forward for Annex I countries to fulfil their commitments under the Climate Change Convention. We urge those parties to translate their legally binding targets into concrete actions for the reduction of their gas emissions. We welcome the support for the Kyoto Protocol by Japan, the European Union and, more recently, China and Russia. We urge the United States and Australia to join the global efforts towards addressing this issue, including ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. Pacific Forum island leaders also reiterated continuing serious concerns over the shipment of radioactive materials through the region. They called on those States engaging in these activities to accept full responsibility and liability for compensation for any damage that may result, directly or indirectly, from the transport of radioactive material through the region. Global warming has brought an increase in the number of cases of diseases like malaria in the higher- altitude regions of our country. This is still a major threat to Papua New Guinea, particularly in the most populous region — the highlands. Papua New Guinea is not immune to the HIV/ AIDS epidemic, and tuberculosis is again on the rise, so there is an urgent need to find preventative measures for these diseases. In this regard, we welcome announcements by the Governments of Japan and the United States, among other, that they would set aside substantial financial resources for eradication programmes in developing countries. Papua New Guinea concurs with the recent calls by the international community to reform and restructure the charters and mandates of the two Bretton Woods institutions: the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. These two institutions must realign their policies and focus more on development and poverty eradication, rather than on the reconstruction of economies. Their lending policies should be made more lenient and flexible in assisting the developing countries, including small islands, landlocked and the least developed countries. The ultimate goal must be to transfer resources into the hands of the needy, the marginalized and the ostracized of society, so that they can take pride in the ownership of the outcomes of new initiatives taken in their own countries. The way forward was agreed to under the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island States and Agenda 21 and in the recent conferences on landlocked developing 29 countries and the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries in Brussels. I must however underline that to date, we have observed a lack of effective implementation of both the Barbados Programme of Action and Agenda 21. There has also been little or no increase in the international aid and development assistance given to the developing countries to build necessary infrastructure, human resource capacities, and other basic needs. This, in our humble view, has to change if the developing countries, especially the small island developing States, landlocked and the least developed countries are to attain sustainable growth and development. There is an urgent need to reform and restructure the United Nations General Assembly and its subsidiary bodies and agencies, as well as the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, so as to reflect the recent dynamics and changes. The Security Council should be reformed and expanded in both categories, permanent and non- permanent. It must take into account the interests of both the developed and developing countries. Although we are encouraged by the general positive signs of progress towards resolving conflicts and securing peace in several regions of the world, Papua New Guinea remains concerned at the continuing conflict in the Middle East. We believe violence will not resolve the conflict. We call on both Israel and the Palestinian leadership to come to the negotiating table to discuss outstanding issues with the view to resolving the conflict peacefully. It would be remiss of me if I did not make mention of the fact that 11 September 2002 marked the first anniversary of the terrorist attacks in the United States of America. The Government and people of Papua New Guinea express to the Government and people of the United States, and the families of the victims drawn from many countries, our sympathy for the tragedy and suffering of just a year ago, when terrorism struck this great city of New York and Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania. Though distant from this tragic event, we share in the deep sorrow felt around the world, and in the admiration of the extraordinary bravery and sacrifice of so many who engaged themselves in the rescue efforts. Our thoughts are with those who continue to mourn. Papua New Guinea joins with all the freedom loving nations and peoples of the world in condemning terrorism in all its evil forms. Terrorist attacks can never be justified. Terrorism, in which the lives of the most innocent and vulnerable are so senselessly taken, must be especially condemned. Papua New Guinea fully endorses and supports all efforts towards the effective implementation of the United Nations Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). You concluded your opening address to this Assembly, Mr. President, by appealing to Member States to focus on what we have in common — and especially our desire to live in a peaceful and secure world where the values and principles expressed in the United Nations Charter are honoured. Papua New Guinea shares your vision and the confidence that underpin your address. If the nations of the world — with our great diversity — focus on what we have in common, we will build and secure a better world, one in which the benefits of economic development are shared, and one in which the marvels of modern science and technology, including modern medicine, are harnessed for the common good of humanity. But none of these things can be achieved without a genuine and lasting peace. In conclusion, I want to reaffirm Papua New Guinea's firm commitments to what I have outlined and reiterate that global, regional and local partnerships in promoting sustainable development is the key to addressing the challenges that confront the world today.  ﻿It gives me pleasure to begin by congratulating Mr. Kavan on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I wish him every success as he embarks on this task. I would also like to thank his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, who so ably steered the work of the General Assembly at its fifty- sixth session, which was convened amidst acute and grave circumstances. I would be remiss if I failed to express my appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his tireless work to enhance the role of our international Organization. It is also my pleasure to congratulate the Swiss Federation on its admission to membership of our international Organization. Lebanon considers the United Nations to be the main body entrusted with the realization of international peace and security and with upholding respect for the rules of international law. The United Nations is a safe haven for States, particularly small ones, which find in its Charter the reassurances they need in a turbulent world. Therefore, any departure from the Charter, circumventing, disregarding, or overstepping its authority; any selective handling of its resolutions; or any attempt to impose settlements on and solutions to conflicts and disputes outside its framework flagrantly undermines the credibility of the Organization and its organs, particularly the Security Council. Such acts are a devastating blow to the pillars of international order. Lebanon believes that there is a causal relationship between security and sustainable 27 development and calls for a renewed effort, under United Nations auspices, to eliminate poverty and disease, bridge the gap between the North and the South, and reduce social disparities. These are the scourges that are often manipulated by those who harbour ill intentions towards humanity. In this context, Lebanon welcomes the establishment of the African Union and supports the principles on which the New Partnership for Africa's Development was built. The work of this session coincides with the first anniversary of the horrific terrorist attacks and the terrible tragedy that struck the United States of America. The world is still suffering from their terrible repercussions. On behalf of Lebanon, I avail myself of this opportunity to reiterate our sympathy with the bereaved families. Like us, they are heartbroken over the loss of their sons, relatives and loved ones. We also renew our commitment to cooperating with the international community to combat international terrorism in accordance with the provisions of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) of 28 September 2001 and other relevant United Nations resolutions. The events of 11 September 2001 impeded the convening of the ninth summit of the Francophonie, scheduled to be held last year under the theme of “Dialogue among civilizations”. My country is proud to be hosting the conference in mid-October. There is no doubt that the choice of theme for the conference before these dramatic events arose from the foresight of its members and participants and from their conviction of the need to interact and to engage in dialogue, far removed from the logic of confrontation and hostility. Lebanon itself was the target of terrorist acts prior to 11 September 2001 and its army stood up to the perpetrators and overcame them. Lebanon and its Arab brothers have been suffering from the State terrorism continuously practised by Israel without international deterrence since the Deir Yassin massacre and the massacres in the Qana and Jenin camps. Israel has recently begun to manipulate the tragic events of September 2001 and the international campaign to combat terrorism, using them shamelessly as a pretext for persecuting the Palestinian people and depriving them of their right to self-determination. Israel has launched a slanderous campaign of threats against Lebanon and its legitimate resistance, as well as against Syria, while the origin of the conflict in the region is the Israeli occupation of Arab territories. The reality is that Israel has continuously defied resolutions of international legitimacy. Israel has disregarded Security Council resolution 425 (1978) for more than 22 years and has refused to implement the Security Council resolution calling for the establishment of a fact-finding mission to investigate the Jenin camp massacre. It has resorted to terror and violence to implement expansionist and settlement policies. It has accumulated weapons of mass destruction in an arsenal primarily stacked with nuclear, biological and chemical weapons. It continues to oppose all attempts to reach a just and comprehensive peaceful solution to the Middle East issue, and remains, nonetheless, in total impunity, never held accountable or punished for its actions. That situation can only strengthen the impression among Arab Governments and peoples that there is a double standard at play in international affairs, and that, regrettably, Israel is allowed to remain outside and above the law. Shimon Peres today accused Hezbollah of terrorism because it has effectively contributed to the legitimate resistance against Israeli occupation and to forcing Israeli forces to withdraw from most occupied Lebanese territory. Hezbollah is represented in Lebanese parliament and participates in the political, economic and social life of Lebanon. Mr. Peres is in fact the last person who should have the right to talk about terrorism. He is the one responsible directly for the killing of 102 women, children and elderly at Qana when Israel bombed the UNIFIL tent where they had sought safety and shelter. Israel should be held accountable for such crimes. Israel was founded on terrorism and has used it to occupy land and establish faits accomplis. If Israel's perpetration of the massacres of Dair Yasin, Qana and Jenin is not terrorism, then what is terrorism? Is not Israel's daily breaking of the sound barrier over Lebanese cities and villages a form of terrorism and intimidation? 28 Is not Israel's kidnapping of Lebanese citizens from their homes and detaining them in Israeli prisons as hostages another form of terrorism? Is not leaving hundreds of thousands of landmines in south Lebanon to kill civilians a form of terrorism that should be strongly condemned? Is not Israel's constant threat of invading Lebanon and destroying its civil institutions, infrastructure and development projects a terrible form of terrorism, devastating to our hopes in reconstruction and rehabilitation? As if occupying Arab lands and terrorizing their civilian populations were not enough, Israeli greed prompts Israel to usurp our natural wealth and water resources, contravening international laws and instruments. The Israeli Prime Minister directly threatened to attack Lebanon, using the pretext that we are diverting the course of the Hasbani and Wazzani rivers. However, the fact is that Lebanon is trying to draw limited amounts of water for some poor southern villages that have suffered from the Israeli occupation for many years, which will lead us to pump a total of approximately 9 million cubic metres annually. By all standards, that amount is far below our legitimate rights, it represents only one tenth of our right. Lebanon again rejects those Israeli threats and draws the attention of the Assembly and the Security Council to the danger those threats represent and to their direct negative impact on international peace and security. It is difficult for any human society to strive for security in the absence of political, economic and social justice. We, therefore, believe that security approaches and partial interim solutions alone cannot possibly succeed in resolving the Middle East conflict. Therefore, we call for the adoption of an approach that takes into account the priority of the political dimension of the conflict and the need to arrive at a just and comprehensive solution to the conflict in the region in all its aspects. In that context, Arab leaders unanimously adopted an integral, indivisible peace initiative at the Arab Summit, held in Beirut on 28 and 29 March 2002, based on the following conditions. First, Israel must withdraw completely from the occupied Arab territories, including the occupied Syrian Golan, to the border of 4 June 1967, and from the territories it still occupies in southern Lebanon; secondly, it must reach a just solution to the problem of the Palestinian refugees, to be agreed upon in accordance with General Assembly resolution 194 (III); thirdly, it must agree to the establishment of an independent and sovereign Palestinian State in the Palestinian territories occupied since 4 June 1967 in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, with East Jerusalem as its capital. Subsequently, the Arab States will consider the Arab-Israeli conflict ended, will enter into a peace agreement with Israel, will ensure security for all the countries of the region and will establish normal relations with Israel in the context of that just peace. A central element of the Arab peace initiative is securing an agreement not to allow any type of resettlement of Palestinian refugees that is incompatible with the particularities of the host Arab countries. It is unfortunate that Israel has responded to that initiative by increasing its aggression and reoccupying the West Bank, relentlessly targeting human lives and property in the occupied Palestinian territory. Simultaneously, others have chosen to ignore or override the initiative, despite its comprehensiveness, unanimous acceptance by Arabs and broad international support. The Beirut Summit established a special committee to implement the Arab peace initiative. Once formed, the committee requested a meeting with the Quartet to present the initiative and confirm its status as a point of reference for the settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. The initiative contains all previous references dating back to the Madrid Peace Conference, held in 1991, and is based on resolutions of international legitimacy. We seek to submit it to the Security Council for adoption and for the subsequent establishment of an international mechanism to implement it. A meeting was held yesterday between the Quartet and a delegation of the committee at United Nations Headquarters. We hope that this will pave the way for a mechanism of prior consultations and joint effort based on resolutions of international legitimacy and the Arab peace initiative. The Arab peace initiative, which we uphold and which was adopted unanimously by the Arab countries, represents a historic opportunity that may not present itself again. It cannot be replaced by partial or interim approaches, the futility of which has been proven 29 throughout decades. Instead of leading to the long- awaited peace, they have led to renewed violence. We, therefore, call upon the international community to adopt this initiative and to support it, as it represents an opportunity for achieving our aspirations — a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. Submitting disputes before the United Nations and implementing United Nations resolutions, particularly those of the Security Council, can guarantee the peaceful settlement of any given conflict. By following that course, the parties could be spared the need to settle their dispute by military means. It may not be easy to contain the tragic ramifications of military action in a given region. That is particularly true of Iraq, which also was the subject of deliberations at the Beirut Arab Summit. It was also decided there that the solution to the Iraqi problem must be achieved through dialogue between Iraq and the United Nations. Iraq should not once again be a theatre of war, which would increase the suffering of its people. The Arab leaders consider an attack against any Arab State a threat to the national security of all Arab countries. As president of the Arab Summit, Lebanon hopes that Iraq's compliance with the will of the international community and allowing the return of the international weapons inspectors will lead to the end of the suffering of its people and to a comprehensive solution that will lead to the implementation of Security Council resolutions and to the lifting of sanctions. We also hope that that will enable the Middle East to rid itself of weapons of mass destruction and will avert the threat or use of force against Iraq, thus preserving and respecting its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. Lebanon takes pride in its strong and positive relationship with the United Nations, being one of its co-founders and having contributed to the drafting of its Charter as well as to the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As members may be aware, since 1978, the Organization has deployed the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) in the aftermath of the Israeli occupation. In May 2000, UNIFIL had the opportunity to begin fulfilling its mandate after Israel had been forced to withdraw from most of the territories in the south. That withdrawal was possible thanks to our people's solidarity, their legitimate resistance to the Israeli occupation and the fact that our Government embraced their heroic efforts for liberation, and the international support for their just cause. The Lebanese Shebaa Farms, at the foot of Mount Hermon, and other points along the withdrawal line remained under occupation. Another important aspect of UNIFIL's mandate that has yet to be fulfilled is the restoration of international peace and security. That task remains hampered by Israel's continued occupation, threats against Lebanon and provocations, as seen daily in the repeated violation of Lebanon's sovereignty over its land, airspace and territorial waters. Israel continues to occupy the Syrian Golan and to ignore the right of Palestinian refugees to return to their homes. It has rejected every initiative to find a just and comprehensive solution to the Middle East problem. I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to commend the efforts of the United Nations and UNIFIL's important role as it fulfils its mandate. The liberation of Lebanese territories from Israeli occupation will remain incomplete unless we address the heinous legacy of occupation and succeed in finding a just solution to the problem of Palestinian refugees, in particular those who live in Lebanon. Such a solution should be based on their right to return and on a rejection of their settlement in Lebanon. Failure to factor the refugees into the equation of a solution based on the right to return and on the rejection of resettlement in host countries would create a time bomb. It would undermine the security that we are all striving to attain in the Middle East on the basis of a peaceful, comprehensive and just settlement of the conflict. We should like to stress here that a solution to the question of Palestinian refugees cannot be found through exclusive bilateral Palestinian-Israeli negotiations. Guaranteed respect for the rules of international law and the permanence of any solution require that host and other concerned countries, including Lebanon, be involved in the negotiating process. With regard to mine clearance, Lebanon is stepping up its cooperation with the United Nations to assist in clearing the mines that the Israeli occupying forces are responsible for laying in our territories. I will note that Israel failed to hand over complete maps and records indicating the specific locations of those mines. We in Lebanon attach the highest importance to the release of Lebanese citizens who are unduly 30 detained in Israeli prisons. They were kidnapped by Israel and incarcerated as hostages, in flagrant defiance of the rules and instruments of international law. It is no secret that the Israeli occupation of southern Lebanon has taxed our endurance. Our citizens' lives have been tragically shattered, their properties have been destroyed, their infrastructures have been decimated and our development has been hampered. Increased international assistance is required to revitalize our economy and to increase our opportunities for growth. Lebanon reserves the right to demand compensation for the damage caused by Israeli occupation and acts of aggression, in accordance with established procedures in international political and judicial forums. The reconstruction and rehabilitation of the liberated Lebanese territories and the revitalization of Lebanon's economy are among our Government's highest priorities. Lebanon continues to work for the recovery of its economy and for the reform of its taxation system through the adoption of carefully developed measures and legislation, including the value-added tax on goods and services and the gradual reduction of tariffs, in addition to the direct tax levy and the rationalization of spending. Lebanon's parliament recently adopted the Privatization Act, which regulates that aspect of economic activity and defines its conditions and field of application. Such legislation, including the two recently adopted acts, joins a series of laws developed to enhance investors' confidence in the free-market system, which we are keen to preserve. Along the same lines, those in positions of responsibility in the Lebanese Administration are subject to strict accountability and liability rules, including money-laundering and the prohibition of illegitimate gain. It is worth mentioning here that, over the years, the Lebanese internal security forces have destroyed all illegitimate crops, including hashish. But Lebanon did not receive the assistance, provided to others, that would have enabled our farmers to live in dignity. Lebanon signed a partnership agreement with the European Union last June after acceding to the Greater Arab Free Trade Zone, to which most Arab States currently belong. Preparations are under way for us to join the World Trade Organization, in which we currently enjoy observer status. We gather here under the roof of the United Nations, our common home, to engage in dialogue on the best ways to translate into reality the great values of the Charter. Lebanon takes pride in its firm belief in those values and in the fact that, in its national unity, it embodies the plurality of its society. It stands for a rich human experience, both civilized and pioneering, of which we are proud and which the international community is surely keen to preserve. Lebanon looks forward to cooperating with other Members to contribute to this session's success and to finding constructive solutions to the problems and challenges that we face, while upholding the principles of liberty, justice and peace around the world, particularly in the Middle East region. Finding a just and comprehensive solution to the Middle East conflict in all its aspects will surely liberate our States and peoples from the grip of a protracted problem that has depleted their resources and hampered their development.  ﻿Allow me to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan, and through him the Czech Republic, on his well-deserved election to preside over the work of this session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to congratulate Switzerland on its recent admission to membership of the United Nations and to congratulate the Republic of Timor- Leste on its imminent admission. Fifty-eight years ago, the founders of the Organization undertook to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. Unquestionably, the main purpose of the United Nations is the promotion of justice and well-being for all. We must reaffirm that commitment today. We must dedicate ourselves to building a more just, free, harmonious and happy society. We must indeed draw the maximum advantage from the benefits of joint action and cooperation in order to create a world of mutual advantage. As stated in the Millennium Declaration, we have a collective responsibility to uphold the principles of human dignity and equality at the global level. However, we are still very far from reaching that goal. In the last 10 years, more than 3.5 million people have died in civil wars. One billion three hundred and eighty million people live in extreme poverty, and 854 million do not know how to read or write. Democracy, justice and the enjoyment of civil and political rights are far from being universal. We believe that we need to address the miserable and alarming situation of the world's children. More than 30,000 children die every day of diseases that are easily preventable. There are more than 300,000 child soldiers in the world. More than 150 million children suffer from malnutrition due to a lack of food, and many millions go without schooling. This situation is as serious as — or more serious than — the effects of terrorism, which are themselves abominable. However, these problems do not draw the public's attention and are relegated to a secondary place on the world's agenda. We have stopped half way in our struggle to create a better world. Many examples attest to this bitter fact. It is right for us to celebrate the holding of the first elections after an armed conflict or the end of a dictatorship. However, those are just the first steps down the path of a democratic way of life. Unless the United Nations commits itself to ensuring the sustainability of democracy, elections, regardless of their inherent value, will not necessarily mean a victory in the fight for human rights. Democracy must be an instrument for attaining equitable development and creating favourable conditions for peoples who invest their hopes in it. The sustainability of democracy can be safeguarded though the promotion of the fundamental social values of dialogue, harmony and reconciliation. That is also done by combating extreme poverty and the growing economic gap between various social groups, which are ills that weaken the social fabric and erode confidence in political institutions. Financial 20 crises foster conditions favourable to the existence of extremist and opportunist groups seeking to overthrow democratic Governments. Greater international cooperation for development is necessary to consolidate democracy. It is for that reason that we urgently call upon developed nations to implement the Monterrey Consensus, and in particular to fulfil their commitment to increase official development assistance. Costa Rica fully supports United Nations efforts to promote and strengthen democracy. But we also emphasize that the United Nations should not give any less attention to the creation of the economic and social conditions that will help to strengthen and preserve democratic institutions throughout the world. We also believe that globalization, with its rapid development of information and communication technologies and growing economic and commercial interdependence, offers us tremendous opportunities for economic and social development. We must certainly take advantage of those opportunities to create a better world for all. However, globalization also poses serious dangers. Structural barriers, financial imbalances and the lack of capital for productive and social investment can cause the economic collapse of entire regions. Subsidies, restricted access to international markets and capital flight distort free competition. Globalization may widen the gap between the wealthiest and the poorest sectors of society. The digital divide may exclude the most vulnerable from the benefits of the modern economy and cast a long shadow over the futures of those left behind. It is essential that we make greater efforts to protect the most vulnerable groups and nations. The United Nations must call on the developed countries to open their markets and to abolish subsidies, thus enabling developing countries to have access to the benefits of globalization. Thus, in combating inequality and extreme poverty, we will build more equitable and just societies. Human dignity has been championed ever since the founding of the United Nations. Government corruption, in all its forms and at all levels, is a genuine breach of human rights. It is outrageous that unjust leaders should enrich themselves by corrupt means and thus impoverish their peoples. It is scandalous to see how certain rulers divert public funds to their private accounts while reducing their peoples to the most appalling poverty. At the same time, the Governments of some States Members of the United Nations fuel corruption by granting tax deductions for bribes offered abroad. There are even some Member States that protect corrupt leaders under the guise of banking secrecy. The United Nations should forbid all such acts and prevent the granting of amnesty, asylum and travel visas to those who seek to evade justice. The protection of human rights may be weakened without multilateral protection, monitoring and sanctions mechanisms. Costa Rica advocates the creation of a new generation of human rights mechanisms to provide greater protection to all individuals. This effort has already born its first fruit in the form of a draft optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. That legal instrument, recently adopted by the Economic and Social Council, will be submitted to the General Assembly for consideration in the next few days. I urge all States actively to support the draft as a sign of their unequivocal commitment to human rights and to the primacy of the dignity and integrity of all human beings. We welcome the recent entry into force of the Rome Statute establishing the International Criminal Court. Human kind at last has an effective, independent and impartial judicial organ with jurisdiction to try the most serious crimes against human dignity. We must not weaken it. While the United Nations upholds the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes, requiring just means and institutions to resolve differences, the International Court of Justice — the United Nations main judicial organ and guarantor of international law, responsible for ensuring the rule of law in international relations and for preventing arbitrary and casuistic interpretations of legal norms — has become a purely rhetorical device. Very few States Members of the United Nations have accepted its mandatory jurisdiction without reservation, while others have made the situation even worse by unjustifiably withdrawing or modifying their acceptance of its jurisdiction. Only 12 nations accept the mandatory jurisdiction of the Court without reservation or condition. To ignore the authority of the highest judicial organ of the society of nations is tantamount to closing the door to justice and endangers the integrity of the international legal order. 21 What alternative is there for nations if they cannot rely on judicial bodies to settle their differences? The only alternative is force. It is essential for all States Members of the United Nations to accept without condition the obligatory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. Only thus will we be able to create a more just, peaceful and secure world. A more just world will necessarily be more peaceful. Justice demands respect for others and for their freedom — in other words, tolerance. Peace in many regions of the world is seriously threatened by intolerance. In the Middle East, the rights of the peoples of Israel and Palestine are being violated. The intolerance of one leader is today making a country like Iraq the possible setting for endlessly bitter war. How different the situation would be if it had a fair Government respectful of human rights. The world has also witnessed with concern the growing dispute between India and Pakistan and the threat of nuclear war in that region. My country would like to see greater tolerance prevail in the Taiwan Straits. We hope to see a just settlement that would fulfil the desires of the entire Chinese people. Costa Rica has historically enjoyed and continues to enjoy close friendly relations with the Republic of China on Taiwan. Creative agreements have been reached in many international organizations to permit the participation of the Republic of China in their work. The world would be a far more peaceful place if we were able to find an innovative accord to allow that country and its people to be represented with dignity in this and other international organizations. While it is a principle of the United Nations to prevent violence and to achieve lasting and stable peace, there are Governments that transfer weapons to rebel and terrorist groups and States Members of the United Nations that scorn efforts being made for disarmament and the reduction of military expenditure. We call for the adoption of a legally binding framework convention to regulate the arms trade. Our experience as a disarmed nation has taught us that not spending on weapons is the best decision for those countries that are truly committed to the well-being of their peoples. We urge the nuclear States truly to commit themselves to disarmament negotiations. We deem it necessary to adopt a comprehensive convention to prohibit the use of nuclear weapons. In the meantime, all States must renounce the development of new nuclear weapons and ratify the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We cannot commit ourselves only half-way to human dignity, equality and justice. We must not allow our children, the future generation, to be able to condemn us for doublespeak. If we can do that, we will be making a true contribution to their inheritance of a better world.  ﻿I bring warm greetings from the people of Nauru, who join me in congratulating you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, and in commending the outgoing President for his strong leadership and guidance throughout the tumultuous year gone by. My delegation takes this opportunity to congratulate Switzerland on becoming a full member of the United Nations, making it the 190th Member State in this brotherhood of nations. Much of the work of the United Nations since the last session of the General Assembly is reflective of the state of the world. The events of 11 September 2001 and the ongoing conflicts around the world have focused the work of this body on security issues, and that is understandable. The Security Council's adoption of its resolution 1373 (2001), obligating Member States to implement anti-terrorism measures, has the full support of the countries of the Pacific Island Forum, of which we are a member. At the international level, my Government is pleased with the outcome of the first session of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which concluded only a few days ago. We commend with admiration the United Nations operation in East Timor for successfully nursing an occupied territory and its people from despair to nationhood, with the proclamation of an independent Democratic Republic of East Timor on 20 May this year. The communiqué of the 33rd meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum, held in Fiji last month, sets out 23 wide-ranging concerns that impact the livelihood and welfare of the peoples of the Pacific. First and foremost among those concerns is the environment. The continued degradation of the Earth's environment cannot be ignored, in the light of the natural disasters that are occurring in different parts of the world: flooding, earthquakes and droughts, to name but a few. There is enough scientific evidence to show that the changes in the Earth's environment and climate are human-induced. The World Summit on Sustainable Development recently held in Johannesburg was an earnest attempt by us to remedy the situation. All of us in the Pacific region were disappointed by the lack of meaningful targets in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation. However, we believe that the commitments for significant new resources and partnerships reached at the Summit will go a long way in helping to accelerate implementation of sustainable development. Nauru is very pleased by the assured entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol, thanks to the commitments made by India, Canada, Russia and China to ratify that instrument. But that is only the first step in what has to be a universal campaign to address climate change. We would therefore join the call for the United States and Australia to see their way clear, in the not-too-distant future, to ratifying the Protocol. Another issue of special importance to Nauru is the health of our ocean. We are the custodians of the largest ocean, rich in natural marine resources and minerals. The ocean also frames our cultures and is the source of our future well-being. This is particularly true in the case of Nauru, which has a land area of only 10 square miles and an ocean area of at least 120,000 square miles. We use the ocean to provide desalinated water, and earn a substantial amount of our income from fishing license fees. For the sake of our future, the international users of our ocean space must work with us to conserve the ocean's natural resources against unsustainable use; protect its biodiversity from pollution, including through the shipment of toxic materials; and ensure that island countries benefit equitably from the trade in the ocean's natural resources, living or non-living. Just as the economies and the environment of Pacific Islanders are vulnerable to external forces, so is the security of our peoples and Governments. Our region, the world's very first nuclear-free zone, has a long history of supporting disarmament and the non- proliferation of nuclear weapons, born of the region's harsh experience with nuclear testing by colonial powers. I joined other Pacific Leaders last month in expressing concern on the trans-shipment of nuclear waste through our waters. My delegation welcomes the initiative by Mongolia to institutionalize its territory as a nuclear weapon-free zone and will support United Nations action towards the realization of this goal. On the domestic front, the potential fallout on our economy of the OECD initiative on harmful tax competition is worrisome, to say the least. While my Government reaffirms the sovereign right of nations to establish domestic tax regimes of their own design and choosing, we have expressed our strong commitment to developing a cooperative framework within which countries can work together to address transparency, capacity building and information exchange in relation to tax matters. We remain of the view that the only place where money-laundering can be controlled effectively is at the source. While Nauru has done all it can to date to ensure that its legal and administrative system is sufficient to prevent such activities, we appear to remain the subject of adverse criticism from the Financial Action Task Force on Money-Laundering (FATF). Nauru was disappointed not to have graduated out of the special, non-cooperating countries list. We will, nonetheless, continue to work on satisfying the key players in FATF on this issue. Two most pressing issues facing my Government in a “post-phosphate” future are energy and the supply of fresh water, as both have direct impacts on the standard of living of the community. Nauru is dependent on the import of fossil fuel for its entire energy requirement, including for the desalination of seawater to complement catchments of rainwater. Before I conclude, Mr. President, I wish to reiterate Nauru's support for the reform of the United Nations Security Council, and to support calls for this issue to continue to receive top priority. In terms of the United Nations itself, the ongoing administrative and budgetary reforms by the Secretary-General are welcome, but much more certainly needs to be done. 24 Nauru is disappointed to see that contributions to the Global Health Fund are only trickling in, contrary to our enthusiastic undertaking at the Special Session last year. Consequently HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis continue unabated in their destruction of communities and continue to rob the manpower of affected nations. Nauru pledged to contribute $1 per head of its population to the Fund, and I am pleased to announce that this pledge has been honoured. I again call on all Member States, rich and poor, to contribute. Finally, Mr. President, in the past two years the Millennium Summit and the Monterrey and Johannesburg Summits have illustrated the United Nations' increasing role as a forum for building consensus. Indeed, the last twelve months have been trying times in our efforts to build consensus on development and to maintain international peace and security. The challenge facing us in this area is not so much one of building consensus, because we all know what needs to be done, but rather one of implementation. Achieving our lofty goals requires action and cooperation at all levels, from local to global. Mr. President, we look to you for leadership in this decisive period and offer our steadfast support. Finally, 11 September 2001 seems to be a way of life for some people. It is now etched into history and what a pity. The perpetrators cannot be proud of what happened, and we should not allow them or encourage them to proceed on their merry way. We must pursue the alternatives we have, as they can be a great legacy for our children. We the small nations have faith in the United Nations. We the small nations have hope in the United Nations. Let us embrace love in its entirety, for love is a beautiful way of living. Thank you. God bless the United Nations.   ﻿First, I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Argentina welcomes the fact that a distinguished representative of the Czech Republic has been given this distinction. The Argentine Republic rejoices with the United Nations at the entry of Switzerland as a new Member of the Organization. The independence of East Timor, the formation of its first sovereign Government and its coming membership in the United Nations are the result of the struggle of that country for its right to self- determination. We welcome this young nation that is now incorporating into international life. Argentina wishes to express its special gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for translating, through his actions and his continuing search for peace, the aspirations of the international community striving to build a more secure and stable world. 26 One year after the criminal terrorist attacks in the United States, we reiterate our solidarity with the people and the government of this friendly country, and with the victims and their families. Terrorism is the child of political or religious fanaticism. We are convinced that international cooperation has to be strengthened in the fight against any terrorist threat, so as to eliminate that threat, which endangers peace and international security, and ensure that those responsible for those attacks are tried and punished along with those who help them and support them. There is no justification, nor will there be any, for these barbaric actions that bring shame upon mankind. It is not a good thing when some Member States do not abide by United Nations resolutions. It is intolerable that these resolutions remain unimplemented when issues related to the very existence of mankind on the planet are involved. The existence of arsenals with bacteriological, chemical and other similar weapons that can be used in a traditional or terrorist war is a matter that affects all men, women and children of the world. My country, along with the rest of the international community, has consistently called on the Government of Iraq to accept immediately and unconditionally the United Nations inspectors. These inspectors represent all of us inspecting one of us. There are no reasons to refuse the inspections if there is nothing to conceal. Therefore, Argentina welcomes the announcement made by the Secretary-General that Iraq finally agreed to let the inspectors in without conditions. We hope that Iraq fulfils its promise in good faith, and we very warmly congratulate the League of Arab States and the Secretary-General for making this effort towards peace. The main concern at the United Nations for peacekeeping and for maintaining international security has made significant strides, even though some situations of extreme gravity and with high potential for conflict still exist and have not been solved. The promising events related to the establishment of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) that we discussed yesterday, contrast with the worsening situation in the Middle East. The Argentine Government is following with pain and great concern the acts of violence in that region. We are convinced that no possible solution will result from the indiscriminate and brutal use of force through deliberate assassinations or through terrorist attacks against civilians. The only road to peace and stability is through dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians. Therefore we reiterate our position in support of the renewal of negotiations between the parties with the hope for coming to a peaceful, fair and definitive solution to the conflict. This should include the recognition of the undeniable right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and to form an independent State, as well as the legitimate right of Israel to live within secure and internationally recognized borders. At present, there are several plans for peace in addition to the efforts on the part of the Quartet. All of these initiatives deserve our urgent attention. At this time, I wish to confirm that, as part of Argentina's dedication to peace, and its desire to contribute to a solution of the serious existing conflicts, our country will continue to provide armed forces and police personnel, as well as civilians, for the peacekeeping operations established by the United Nations Security Council. We stress again the permanent commitment of Argentine democracy to the international protection of human rights and to the United Nations activities in that field. We wish to mention our satisfaction at the entry into force of the Rome Statute, of which Argentina is a founding party. Argentina today is going through an exceptionally deep crisis. As for the opening of the country to the world, our country will continue to travel along the path of becoming a part of the concert of nations that exchange goods and services, as it has done uninterruptedly for the last 12 years. Therefore we will continue participating actively in multilateral negotiations within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and we will implement a new trade policy, which, as part of an overall State policy, will be aimed at giving the Argentine economy a clear export profile. It is only by generating foreign earnings, as a result of international trade, that it will be possible to have sustained economic growth over time, while making it possible to repay our debts. The consolidation of this model demands access to the currently restricted markets of developed countries for Argentine products. The objective of improving access to markets in industrialized countries 27 was, during the Conference on Financing for Development held in Monterrey, precisely the subject of an absolute consensus, since this undertaking was considered essential to eradicate poverty and to start on the road to development. To bring prosperity to our peoples it is necessary to see these initiatives enacted and not merely considered as proposals. It is necessary for actions to conform, once and for all, to the principles that have been voiced and the commitments that have been made. It is of great importance that tariffs paid for agricultural products be reduced and, simultaneously, that protection mechanisms and subsidies be eliminated. Such subsidies rose in 2000, within the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries rose to the staggering figure of 325 billion dollars with respect to agricultural products alone. Of these, 80 per cent were granted by the United States, Japan and the European Union. It is essential then that the guidelines towards free trade for agricultural products become a reality, allowing the developing countries to stop calling for aid to help them deal with a specific problem, which leads to a vicious circle. As a result, they only increase their already heavy and unbearable debt. They should be allowed to sustain growth by selling their products. In other words, we wish trade rather than aid. The grave economic situation we are facing has made it difficult for us to fulfil our obligations to this Organization. These difficulties have been presented to the Committee on Contributions, and we hope that it will be adopted by the General Assembly, calling for understanding from countries that are friends of Argentina. In an environment of acute economic and social crisis, the Government of the Argentine Republic has reaffirmed its firm commitment, in national and international forums, towards the purposes and the programmatic principles of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. This international agreement, incorporated into our national constitution, is included in the set of values and legal standards that distinguish the Argentine nation. My country has clearly recognized the rights of children from the time of conception, and stresses the importance of the family in the child's development. Along these same lines we once again insist on the right of those children abducted by one of their parents. In particular, we refer to the painful situation of Karim, Zahira and Sharif, the children of our compatriot Gabriela Arias Uriburu. Unfortunately, despite huge efforts on the part of the family and Argentine officials, no answer has been given by the Kingdom of Jordan to our request for some mechanism that would make possible a stable and permanent relationship between these children and their mother. This position has received the clear support of the meeting of government experts called by the General Assembly of the Organization of American States (OAS) in Montevideo, Uruguay. The Argentine Republic believes that the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, recently held in Johannesburg, constitutes a feasible agreement, upon which it is possible to move forward in the implementation of specific actions in the economic, social, and environmental dimensions of sustainable development. I regret to say that the most important statement at that Summit was made by a group of children, who said: We ask ourselves whether snow will fall in the middle of summer one day,' and More than words or applause, we need actions.' Unfortunately, little specific progress has been made to stop the continuing series of environmental disasters. As the General Assembly knows well, the Argentine Republic has a sovereignty dispute with the United Kingdom over the Malvinas and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, as well as the surrounding maritime areas. The recovery of full sovereignty over that part of our national territory, while respecting the interests of the inhabitants and international law, is a precept enshrined in the Argentine Constitution. The issue was included in the programme of work of this Organization, which, in several resolutions, asked the Government of Argentina and the Government of the United Kingdom to resume negotiations to find a just and lasting solution to the sovereignty dispute, thus ending a colonial situation imposed by the use of force in 1833. Today, in line with that request, Argentina once again reaffirms its positive disposition to resume bilateral negotiations with the United Kingdom to find a solution to the question and its support of the good offices mission that the General Assembly entrusted to the Secretary-General to assist the parties to achieve that goal. 28 Some three decades ago, in this same Hall, Pope Paul VI declared from this same rostrum that development is the new name of peace. That brief and wise sentence is fully valid today and points towards the path that we should follow. ﻿I should like first of all to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- seventh session, and to express gratitude to Mr. Han Seung-soo for his efforts as President during the fifty- sixth session. I also have pleasure in congratulating Switzerland on becoming a Member State. The United Nations, which is called upon to play a leading role in ensuring international peace and security, is currently undertaking a serious examination of its ability to unify the efforts of Member States and to organize efficient international cooperation in confronting threats and risks that have a global dimension. The tragic events that occurred in New York one year ago made all of us look at the world in a new way and recognize the global interdependence of the challenges of the new era. We must recognize that the world itself has enabled the monster of terrorism to develop by ignoring problems, turning a blind eye to violations of the norms of international law, tolerating aggression and failing to respond to threats caused by the illegal actions of some States, by separatism and by the proliferation of weapons. It is necessary for us to learn lessons from the mistakes made and to launch a broad offensive against terrorism on the basis of common approaches. Respect for a universal approach that does not permit inconsistency, selectiveness or double standards is an indispensable condition for global solidarity in confronting terrorism. The legal basis of such an approach must be set out in a comprehensive convention to combat terrorism. No political, social, ideological, religious or other reason can justify any of the acts, methods or practices of terrorism. Effectively counteracting terrorism and achieving its total eradication demand the use of the broadest, most complex approach, taking into consideration the various aspects of the problem and its root causes. It is obvious that terrorist groups recruit new members and flourish most easily in an environment characterized by economic and social degradation, armed conflict, poverty, illiteracy and self-isolation. The necessary resources should be mobilized to open up new programmes of assistance to the developing and less developed countries, and to expand existing programmes. The implementation of United Nations 26 decisions on assistance for the sustainable development and relaunching of economic growth in those countries plays a major role. We need to take special note of the need to render urgent international assistance to Afghanistan. Another important aspect in the eradication of terrorism is the avoidance of inter-civilizational tensions and the creation of a spirit of mutual respect among religions and cultures. We support the trend towards continuing and deepening the dialogue among civilizations, and we stress its multifaceted nature. We believe that the implementation of programmes in the fields of education, information and cultural dialogue among civilizations will facilitate the creation of relations of mutual understanding and trust, which are so greatly needed in order to resolve the common problems faced by both the West and the East. In this context, I would like to stress in particular the importance of the international conference initiated by Azerbaijan on “The Role of Religion and Belief in a Democratic Society: Searching for Ways to Combat Terrorism and Extremism”, to be held in cooperation with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on 10 and 11 October 2002 in Baku. In the combat against international terrorism, priority should be given to addressing militant nationalism and aggressive separatism. Very often terrorist groups of separatists and nationalists of various kinds maintain close ties among each other and are directly sponsored by States. The fight against terrorism represents an extremely complex problem in the so-called uncontrolled territories that have emerged as a result of armed separatism and foreign aggression. For 10 years now such an uncontrolled zone has existed in that part of the territory of Azerbaijan occupied by Armenia. Elevating the ideology of aggressive nationalism, terrorism and territorial claims to neighbours to the rank of State policy, the Republic of Armenia, through direct interference in the internal affairs of Azerbaijan, formed an armed separatist terrorist group within the Nagorno-Karabakh region of the Republic of Azerbaijan. This was followed by open, armed aggression by Armenia against Azerbaijan. Armenia, which perpetrated ethnic cleansing against the Azerbaijani people in their own territory in 1987 and 1988, in 1992 and 1993 occupied the entire Nagorno-Karabakh region, expelling 60,000 native Azerbaijani people. It has also occupied the territories of another seven regions of the Republic of Azerbaijan, thus bringing the total number of Azerbaijani refugees to 1 million. Armenia now intends to consolidate the results of its aggression and ethnic cleansing and to tear away the Nagorno-Karabakh region from Azerbaijan. Armenia has tried to camouflage its annexationist policy by appealing to the principle of the right of peoples to self-determination. However, according to international law, this principle can be realized only in a peaceful way and in accordance with the principle of territorial integrity. The right to self-determination does not imply the unilateral right of secession and should not lead to the disintegration of a sovereign and independent State. Furthermore, the Armenians residing in the Nagorno-Karabakh region of the Republic of Azerbaijan can in no way be regarded as independent subjects with the right to self-determination. The assertion of the Armenian side that the Nagorno-Karabakh region has never belonged to Azerbaijan is equally groundless, as is its reference to international law. Aside from the fact that appealing to history in the context of the settlement of inter-State conflicts is wrong, extremely dangerous and calls into question the universality of the norms of the international law, it must be noted that these statements by Armenia are refuted by numerous historical official documents. Armenia, which often refers to the League of Nations to justify its territorial claims, must remember that, in its official documents, the League of Nations expressed doubt as to the existence of a stable government capable of representing Armenia and, what is most important, certified Armenia's lack of clearly defined borders. The decisions of Armenia's Parliament on the reunification of the Nagorno-Karabakh region with Armenia and on the non-recognition of any international document which mentions this region as an integral part of Azerbaijan are illegal. Likewise, the decisions taken by the illegal separatist regime in the Nagorno-Karabakh region, the so-called referendums and elections it held in a situation of war and the forcible expulsion of the entire Azerbaijani population cannot have any international legal validity. 27 Furthermore, Armenia itself has violated the right of the Azerbaijani people to self-determination. In accordance with the universally recognized international legal doctrine uti possidetis juris, former Union republics are recognized as new independent States within borders previously existing within the federations. These were the exact borders within which the United Nations recognized Azerbaijan in March 1992, when it accepted our country as a fully fledged Member of this universal Organization. In 1993 the Security Council adopted resolutions 822 (1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993) on the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict. These resolutions were adopted following each new stage of Armenian aggression against Azerbaijan. The Council unambiguously supported the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Azerbaijan, confirmed its recognition of Nagorno-Karabakh as an integral part of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and resolutely demanded the immediate, full and unconditional withdrawal of the Armenian forces from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan and the creation of conditions for the return of refugees and displaced persons. However, these demands by the Security Council have so far not been implemented. Those resolutions also contained a request to the Secretary-General, the OSCE Chairman-in-Office and the Chairman of the Minsk Group, to submit, in implementing the mandate for the settlement of Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict, reports on the situation in the region to the Security Council. The last decision stressed the request to provide information on the process of the implementation of all four resolutions. Regrettably, this request still remains on paper only. Such a state of affairs cannot be beneficial for us; it leads to the “discharging” of the settlement process and, eventually, to a freezing of the situation at a dangerous point of fait accompli of the occupation. The non-implementation of Security Council resolutions undermines its authority as well as people's belief in justice and in the possibility of a peaceful political settlement. As is well known, in the annual resolution of the General Assembly on cooperation with the OSCE, the United Nations expresses its support for the efforts of the regional organization and its Minsk Group, which mediates the settlement of the conflict in and around the Nagorno-Karabakh region of the Republic of Azerbaijan. How can we evaluate these decade-long efforts, which have been under way since the establishment of the Minsk Group at the Conference on Security and Cooperation (CSCE) Ministerial Council held in Helsinki in March 1992? While at the early stages of the mediation the Minsk Group was putting forward proposals on the elimination of the consequences of the conflict, its present activities can be characterized as following a “wait-and-see” policy against the background of the negotiations, until the victimized party accepts the conditions of the aggressor. Such a position on the part of the mediators can be regarded only as passive support for Armenia's fait- accompli policy, which is unacceptable to us. Azerbaijan, which remains committed to a peaceful settlement of the conflict and to interaction with the OSCE and its Minsk Group, sees an urgent need for a new and resolute intervention by the Security Council, which so far has not used its potential effectively to contribute to the settlement of the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict. The current situation is explosive. Yes, the ceasefire has been observed for eight years and mediation activity is being maintained, but a real peaceful settlement of the conflict has not occurred. Azerbaijan will never agree to the legalization of territorial seizures. Azerbaijan will never accept the loss of a single inch of its territory and preserves its right to undertake all the necessary measures stipulated by the United Nations Charter to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. We call upon the Security Council to review the existing situation, to make Armenia immediately withdraw its armed forces from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan and to engage in negotiations on defining the status of the Nagorno-Karabakh region within Azerbaijan on the basis of the norms and principles of international law. We call upon the Republic of Armenia to heed the voice of reason and abandon its pernicious policy of territorial claims against Azerbaijan. The continuation of the occupation of Azerbaijani lands and confrontation with Azerbaijan will yield the Armenian people nothing but misfortune and suffering. The conflict not only substantially undermines security in the South Caucasus region, but also constitutes a major obstacle to establishing bilateral and regional cooperation. This cooperation would have 28 provided benefits to all States in the region and played a crucial role in strengthening their positions and prestige in the international arena. Making use of its natural resources and favourable geographic location, Azerbaijan contributes immensely to the development of the South Caucasus region and in fact plays the role of engine in its integration into the world system. According to data released last year by the Statistical Office of the European Communities, 52 per cent of the gross product of the countries of the South Caucasus was produced in Azerbaijan. A significant event, reaching far beyond the South Caucasus borders, will take place in three days: the ground-breaking ceremony of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, the construction of which will give rise to a vast investment flow into the economies of the countries. Armenia, by its actions against Azerbaijan, has isolated itself from participation in this kind of economic project. Yes, at every level Armenia declares its willingness to cooperate with Azerbaijan, but in Armenia's understanding, Azerbaijan must turn a blind eye to the occupation of its territories and establish economic relations with Armenia. I think members will agree that hardly anyone could accept such a suggestion, which in fact would represent appeasement of the aggressor. Seeking ways out of the present situation and to unblock the process of conflict resolution, Azerbaijan, demonstrating a constructive approach, has proposed to Armenia that it withdraw its occupation forces from the four occupied districts and that it subsequently restore the main-line railway interlinking Azerbaijan, Armenia and other countries of the region. Conceived as a gesture of goodwill, this unique package of measures for the partial elimination of the consequences of the conflict and for the revitalization of cooperation would significantly improve the negotiating environment and public opinion in both countries. This proposal of Azerbaijan, promising benefits for both parties to the conflict and other countries of the region, enjoyed the widest support of the OSCE and its Minsk Group, the European Union and the Council of Europe. However, when it came to taking practical measures, Armenia, diligently demonstrating its commitment to peace and cooperation, rejected this step towards confidence. The situation of “no peace, no war” in the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict is a time bomb and a cause of despair for the people, first and foremost refugees and internally displaced persons, who have been violently deprived of their homes, left to bear the most heavy burden of the consequences of the aggression and are now losing patience and hope for the restoration of their legal rights. As a result of Armenia's aggressive actions, Azerbaijan currently gives shelter to more than 1 million refugees and internally displaced persons. In years past, great work has been carried out to solve the refugees' problems, with the assistance of international humanitarian organizations, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) above all. At present, we feel that the urgent necessities for targeted assistance are to provide medical institutions with the necessary medical preparations and equipment, to implement agricultural programmes, to create jobs and to develop small-scale entrepreneurship. We call upon UNHCR, other international institutions and donor States to respond to our problems and to mobilize resources for facilitating their solution on the required scale. Let me briefly touch upon the issue of United Nations reform aimed at increasing the effectiveness and practical results of the Organization's activities. We have to determine a number of possible reforms, among which the expansion of the Security Council deserves particular mention. I would like to express the hope that the broadest possible consensus on every aspect of this issue will be reached. Greater balance within the Council could have been provided with the inclusion in its composition of influential developing countries along with the developed ones. An increase in representation within one of the United Nations leading bodies — within rational limits — would have reflected the realities of the time and the consideration of broader interests in the solution of crucial issues related to the maintenance of international peace and security. With regard to the reform, we would wish more democracy, action and compatibility with the challenges of change. I would like to believe that the reforms will enable the United Nations to confirm its role as a universal Organization capable of maintaining international peace and security, preventing and resolving regional conflicts, and confronting global threats and risks under the new conditions of globalization. 29  ﻿First of all, I wish to extend to Mr. Jan Kavan congratulations on his election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly. I also wish to take this opportunity to commend his predecessor for his invaluable contribution to what was achieved at the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to express our appreciation to our Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the effort he has been making to ensure that the United Nations becomes a more effective instrument for tackling the very many challenges faced by the international community. My delegation would like to join others in welcoming the admission of the Swiss Confederation to the United Nations. It is a country that has, indeed, contributed so much to the Organization over the years. Our continent, Africa, and its peoples, continue to face enormous and daunting challenges. This is not new. This is something that has been going on for the last few decades, with the general economic and social situation in the continent deteriorating even further. The general trend has been one of an ever-faster marginalization of Africa. The continent has yet to see the benefits of globalization. Africa still awaits the creation of an enabling international economic context for progress in its efforts to wage war against poverty. That effort is unlikely to succeed without greater international cooperation. Many in Africa, including my own country, Ethiopia, are unlikely to meet the internationally agreed poverty-related targets and goals, including those set by the United Nations Millennium Declaration, without greater readiness on the part of the international community to contribute more to Africa's fight against poverty. The eradication of poverty is not only Africa's challenge or only that of the developing world. As was reiterated at the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development, poverty is the greatest global challenge facing the world. The despair and hopelessness engendered by poverty have implications for the world in general — not only for the people of the South but for those of the North, as well. Many might have felt that the Johannesburg Summit failed to rise to the occasion and that its achievement was not commensurate with the gravity of the challenges faced by the peoples of the world in a variety of areas, most of all, in areas most relevant to the eradication of poverty. But there was one thing which was unambiguously evident at the Johannesburg Summit. Those from both the North and the South stressed with one voice that the global apartheid we currently have is unsustainable. How can one implement that vision? This is what continues to elude the international community. It remains the case despite some progress that has been made, including at Monterrey. The eradication of poverty in Africa, and in my own country, is not primarily the responsibility of the international community. It is primarily our responsibility to put our houses in order and to take the lead in rejuvenating Africa. That is where in fact today there is a new development in Africa. Many in Africa are more prepared than ever before to take charge of their destiny. There is a new thinking in Africa today and a realistic resolve to ensure the regeneration of the continent. I am referring to the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). It is an initiative by Africa which demonstrates the readiness of the continent to take charge of its future. It is a concrete 18 commitment by Africa to take the necessary steps in both the economic and political areas towards creating enabling conditions for economic and social transformation. It is a realistic initiative that specifies and underlines the obligation of African countries in all areas relevant to the creation of conditions conducive to economic and social development. Good governance is one such vital obligation to which the initiative accords the necessary importance. It is a major step for Africa and one whose significance should be underlined. The commitment to democracy and good governance has major implications for Africa not only in economic development but also in creating conditions for nurturing peace and stability. Nonetheless, NEPAD cannot succeed without the cooperation of Africa's partners and the international community. And succeed it must, not only because NEPAD's success is in the vital interest of Africa but also because it is in the interest of the world in general. The logic of globalization makes it obvious that no part of the globe is immune to the negative influences emanating from its other, less fortunate parts. Realistically speaking, we swim or sink together. It would be unwise to believe that the growing marginalization and decay of Africa will have no significant adverse implications for the stability and viability of the globalizing world. It is this common interest that we all share which is the basis for our mutual obligation for the success of NEPAD. I must state here that we have been encouraged by the preliminary response to NEPAD by many members of the international community, including the G-8 countries and others. We are still hopeful that even greater support and enthusiasm will be demonstrated by the international community to ensure that NEPAD will be workable. Ethiopia subscribes fully to the NEPAD framework. We are indeed at present in the process of implementing the principles and ideas promoted by the initiative. We will continue to be committed to carrying out our obligations for good governance, for creating enabling conditions for economic development and for eradicating poverty. All the efforts we are making to ensure success in the fight against poverty are bound to fail without peace and durable stability. Here as well, Africa, including our subregion, the Horn of Africa, requires the effective support of the international community. What we need is enlightened support which is transparent and targeted at ensuring durable peace and stability. What we require is support not compromised by tactical considerations which are short-sighted and likely to aggravate already existing problems. Coddling unaccountable Governments would not promote peace in the long run and would not bring about durable stability. Ours is a region which has suffered so much, among other things because of strategic considerations which made expedient the propping up of unaccountable and authoritarian regimes. The result of all that has been disastrous for the region. Peace and stability in the Horn of Africa, as is true in all parts of the world, is dependent in a critical manner on the creation of conditions for good governance. This is a value which ought to be universally applied, including in our subregion. Durable peace demands it. The welfare of the people of our subregion makes it imperative. Ethiopia will leave no stone unturned for peace in our subregion and in Africa as a whole. The effort we have been making for peace in Somalia within the framework of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development is being made in that spirit. It is also in that same spirit that we shall continue to do our share for peace and national reconciliation in the Sudan. Most of all, we draw satisfaction from the fact that we have managed to come out of a war that was imposed on us. For our part, we are determined to leave behind the crisis we had with Eritrea. We shall remain committed to the peace process until its conclusion. It has always been our conviction that it is in the vital interest of Ethiopia to nurture peace in our subregion. That is required by the war we have to wage against poverty, which is the only real enemy we have. But the promotion of the cause of peace in the Horn of Africa has not been that easy. Our subregion is an area of the world that has long been vulnerable to terrorist activities. Ours has been an area that, due in part to the prevalence of poverty, has been taken advantage of very recklessly. My own country has been among those to have suffered as a result. This is a challenge that we still have to contend with, and which we still continue to face. This first-hand experience of ours put us in a position where we can deeply share the anguish of the people of the United States over the 11 September terrorist attack, which we have condemned vehemently. As we mark the first anniversary of that evil deed, we 19 wish once again to express our solidarity with the United States and its people. It is our conviction that success in the fight against international terrorism requires the genuine cooperation and solidarity of the entire international community, no matter who might be the target of such terrorism. All those who directly or indirectly support and encourage terrorism should be held accountable. Resources made available to terrorist groups, in whatever guise, should not be tolerated regardless of the area where this is taking place. In short, what is required is zero tolerance for terrorism regardless of its intended targets. It is not without reason that I am reiterating this point. For us in Ethiopia, terrorism is not a theoretical threat. It is a practical and immediate threat that we have had to face both before and after 11 September, including most recently. It is our earnest hope that the international community will do whatever is necessary to eliminate this scourge. We also hope that there will be better days ahead, when we will all concentrate on addressing the challenges that trouble our planet. I would like to conclude by renewing Ethiopia's commitment to the United Nations and to what it stands for. We wish to see the United Nations become an even a more effective universal Organization and a more forceful and faithful custodian of the principles of international law. Our hope and our dream is that the United Nations will be an even more robust universal Organization catering to the legitimate interests of both big and small counties. We in Ethiopia will continue to contribute our share to the greater nurturing of multilateralism and to making the United Nations an effective custodian of those values. ﻿I bring to the Assembly warm greetings from President Kessai H. Note. On behalf of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, I am honoured to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to this high office. Let me also take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General for the hard work that he and the Secretariat have undertaken in preparation for this General Assembly. I am also very pleased to extend a warm welcome and congratulations from the Marshall Islands to the people of Switzerland and of East Timor, as the newest Members of the United Nations. It is unfortunate that this, the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, is meeting in the shadow of the anniversary of the terrorist attacks that shocked our host country — and the world — on 11 September 2001. Modern terrorism is an issue of concern for all peoples, regardless of nationality or religion. It is an issue that no nation can afford to ignore. While sharing in the feelings of terror, horror and sorrow caused by the terrorist attacks in the United States, the people of the Marshall Islands are hopeful that the Member States of the United Nations will continue to join together in working towards global peace and security. I urge this body, which collectively represents the moral force of all Member States, to do everything in its power to eliminate the threat of terrorism. I am pleased to announce that the Marshall Islands has recently completed a process of national priority-setting and of assessing Government policy. We have thoroughly reviewed the state of our nation through the holding of a National Economic and Social Summit, whose findings have formed the basis for our long-term sustainable development plan, entitled “Republic of the Marshall Islands Vision 2018”. This process of review was guided by consultations with all stakeholders and all sectors of our society. Extensive discussions and interviews were carried out in order to ensure that all members of the Marshall Islands community would have the opportunity to contribute to our vision for the future. The Marshall Islands Government has determined that all development policies and objectives will be guided by the vision generated by the Summit, and we are now in the process of implementing the core ideals of this blueprint for sustainable development. In developing our national vision, the Marshall Islands Government has also responded to the international agenda as set by the United Nations. We have ensured that our policies will reflect the all- important priorities of good governance, respect for fundamental human rights, protection of the environment, and conservation of natural resources. We have also taken account of social development objectives and of the need to invest in the areas of health and education. We are confident that, by linking our national priorities to the international agenda, the correct policy decisions will be made. During the 1990s the Marshall Islands went through a period of structural adjustment and reform at the demand of the international donor community. We have faithfully carried out these costly and socially disruptive reforms, in the hope that some form of reward would be forthcoming. We now have in place a forward-looking and pragmatic set of policies, and we are eager to translate them into action for the betterment of the lives of our people. Yet there are few who are willing to assist us in achieving this goal. I therefore stand here, at the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, to advocate for a new international paradigm: one that recognizes both the unique challenges facing small island developing States such as the Marshall Islands, as well as the unique resources and gifts that such nations possess — resources that can benefit the whole of the international community only through substantive and sustained partnerships. It is time to reconceptualize the relationship that exists between more established and less-established nations, from one of donors and recipients to one of mutual beneficiaries and collaborators. Only in this way will it be possible fully to realize the promise of true international cooperation and development. The Marshall Islands has so much in the way of native intellectual, environmental and cultural resources to share with the international community. We look forward to creating new forms of partnership with entities around the world — partnerships that will redound to the benefit of the global community and of all its residents. 30 The partnerships that are most meaningful to us are ones of a practical nature. Our communities, and those of many other nations like the Marshall Islands, are seeking partnerships of action that offer pragmatic and practical solutions that are coordinated and targeted for maximum effect. The Marshall Islands shares challenges that are uniquely peculiar to many small island States: a precariously fragile environment that is highly sensitive to the threat posed by global warming; a narrow economic base that imposes constraints on the potential for progressive and sustainable development; and an institutional milieu that is slowly developing the capability of harnessing the benefits of science and technology. In relation to our international partners, the Marshall Islands is particularly concerned about the following issues. First of all, we are concerned about the environment. The Marshall Islands Government recognizes the need for a coordinated and comprehensive approach in seeking appropriate solutions to the challenges posed by environmental degradation and pollution. We commend the Barbados Programme of Action, which, in conjunction with the outcome forged at the Johannesburg Earth Summit, will provide a guiding framework for sustainable development for small island States, such as the Marshall Islands. The wide divergence of views expressed in Johannesburg posed many challenges, but also produced rich insights into areas where our common strengths lie, and into how these might best be utilized. Further, it is vital that the international community recognize the great challenge to life and culture that is posed by global climate change. This threat to life and culture is felt most acutely by nations such as the Marshall Islands — nations that face the very real threat of complete obliteration if our oceans rise by even marginal levels. On behalf of the Marshall Islands, I commend those States that share our concerns and have signed and ratified the Kyoto Protocol. May I also urge the remaining non-signatory States to consider the vital importance and urgency of this issue. If the international community does not act now, the future will see the disappearance of many small island nations, which in turn will have immeasurable economic, environmental and immigration consequences for the entire global community. Secondly, an issue that is particularly relevant to the Marshall Islands is that of nuclear cleanup and non- proliferation. The Marshall Islands seeks partnerships with members of the international community that will help raise to new levels the dialogue about nuclear weapons and their testing. The people of the Marshall Islands have suffered greatly at the hands of a world that is continually preparing for war. We are restrained by the persisting legacy of toxic nuclear waste, which poses challenges far beyond our financial and scientific capability to solve. Our food chain continues to be affected, and our development is thwarted by our inability to use damaged lands. I am pleased to state that the United States Congress is currently reviewing our situation, and we are hopeful that the outcome will contribute towards amelioration of this problem. Nevertheless, we believe that our hard-learned lessons can help to inform and instruct the international community in future debates about the use and testing of nuclear weapons. And thirdly, another issue that is particularly pertinent for our people is that of oceans and fisheries. As a nation whose entire livelihood depends on the resources of the sea, the Marshall Islands Government pledges its unwavering support for the Law of the Sea management regime. In particular, we emphasize the importance of Article 63 (1) of the Convention, which speaks of the need for States to agree on measures necessary to coordinate and ensure the conservation and development of shared stocks. The Marshall Islands is also pursuing the establishment of national fisheries industries that will gradually enable the replacement of foreign fishing fleets; the delineation of our own exclusive economic zone; and the establishment of international guidelines to protect our oceans for generations of future fishermen and the people who count on the work they do for survival. I have mentioned only a few of the priorities that my delegation will be seeking to raise at the appropriate moment in the upcoming committee debates and in our interactions with United Nations agencies and our development partners. There are, of course, many other issues of concern to both the 31 Marshall Islands and the international community as a whole — issues with which all of us will wrestle in the coming years. Among the most important challenges faced by this body is the continued exclusion of the Republic of China on Taiwan from the United Nations. The Marshall Islands Government reiterates its concern that the exclusion of a nation of peaceful and law-abiding citizens is not consistent with the inclusive ideal of the United Nations. I therefore urge each and every one of you, all of us, to overcome our biases and to allow the admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan to the United Nations. Another important challenge faced by this body is the ongoing conflict in the Middle East. The Marshall Islands considers that urgent diplomatic action is required in order to work towards a peaceful solution to this threat to international peace and security. The Marshall Islands wishes to emphasize its support for the expansion of the United Nations Security Council. We believe that there should be an increase in the number of both permanent and non- permanent members of the Council and that such expansion should include members from both developed and developing countries. This would significantly broaden the representation base of the Council and thus reinforce its ongoing validity. May I take this opportunity to congratulate the international community on its support for the newly- established International Criminal Court. The Marshall Islands is hopeful and confident that the Court will prove to be a powerful mechanism in the administration of justice at the international level. We are, however, currently considering the making of a bilateral agreement under Article 98 of the Rome Statute and will determine this issue after a careful assessment of the implications of such an agreement. Finally, I wish to reaffirm the strong commitment in fellowship and solidarity of the Marshall Islands with all the Member States of this body. Long live the United Nations. God bless the United Nations.  ﻿Allow me to extend to Mr. Kavan, on behalf of my delegation, sincere congratulations on his election as the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh regular session. May I also thank his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung- soo, whose tenure of office coincided with one of the most trying periods in modern history following the 11 September terrorist attacks in the United States. We appreciate the excellent manner in which he handled the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. May I also commend the efforts, courage and vision of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has continued to be a beacon of strength and hope. We salute him. In addition, we also wish to welcome Switzerland to the United Nations and look forward to the admission of East Timor. Coming from a continent plagued with many obstacles, we believe that the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly affords us yet another opportunity to critically revisit the promises enumerated in the Millennium Declaration and to take stock of progress made so far. Two years down the line, we should give an account of our commitment to the Declaration. In many instances, I am afraid, we shall be found wanting. We have not lived up to our promises and, as a result, many in the world are more desperate today than they were two years ago. They had placed their hope in our vision, our sincerity, our commitment and our sense of urgency and purpose. Various United Nations conferences and meetings have been held since the 1990s to address the challenges confronting developing countries. It is therefore regrettable that there has been insufficient political will to implement the decisions arising therefrom. Meagre resources have been committed to debt reduction, improving market access, human resource development and tackling the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other diseases. The current global financial framework has demonstrated its inadequacy in dealing with the problems facing developing countries. The decline in official development assistance flows and foreign direct investment is an issue of concern. Despite efforts made to achieve sustained economic growth and sustainable development, conditions in the international arena have not been adequately supportive. For a start, my delegation calls for greater emphasis to be placed on concessionary lending and greater use of grants. Moreover, global trade arrangements have tended to benefit industrialized countries. Africa's present share of global trade is less than 2 per cent. While industrialized countries continue to provide substantial subsidies for their agricultural sector, developing countries have been forced to cease similar support. This, combined with tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade, has meant that our products stand no chance of competing with the products from the North. We must therefore build on the momentum achieved at Doha as well as encourage initiatives, such as the African Growth and Opportunity Act and the European Union/ African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States trade arrangements, to enable our countries take advantage of the opportunities in international trade. Many developing countries, including Kenya, are experiencing a net outflow of resources, mainly due to debt service obligations. As a result, there are fewer resources targeted towards basic social services, thus compounding the poverty situation. We therefore call 26 for an overhaul of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative eligibility criteria so that countries facing high levels of poverty and debt burden qualify for debt relief. The launching of the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) have rekindled great hopes in the African continent. These initiatives have made it clear that the primary responsibility for the development of Africa lies in the hands of the Africans themselves. The decision by the United Nations General Assembly to hold a high-level plenary meeting on NEPAD on 16 September 2002 recognizes the importance of that initiative, which emphasizes the twin principles of ownership and partnership. Kenya calls for genuine partnership in the implementation of resolutions, commitments and, especially, the Millennium Development Goals, the Monterrey Consensus and the Outcome of the just concluded World Summit on Sustainable Development. The special session of the General Assembly on children, held in May 2002, provided the international community with an opportunity to renew its commitment to the rights-based approach to children's programmes and activities. The Government of Kenya has made continued efforts to improve the welfare of children. Kenya has ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and has signed the Optional Protocol on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. Kenya has also ratified instruments prohibiting the involvement of children in armed conflict. A comprehensive Children's Statute was enacted in parliament and became operational on 1 March 2002. Kenya also has in place an early childhood development policy, safeguarding children from birth until the age of six. My delegation notes with concern that the reduction in funding to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) by a major contributor will have a negative impact on ongoing programmes in many developing countries. The UNFPA continues to play a critical role in assisting the most vulnerable in society — namely, women and adolescents. It is our hope that voluntary contributions to the organization will be restored to their former level and further increased as a matter of urgency. With regard to the United Nations Centre in Nairobi, my delegation welcomes the improvement in the level of utilization of the conference facilities. We encourage the Secretary-General to take the necessary measures to ensure that all meetings and activities on environment and matters related to human settlements are held at the United Nations Office at Nairobi (UNON) so as to utilize the excellent facilities there and to further strengthen the role of the Organization in all matters charged to it in conformity with the headquarters rule. My delegation would like to commend the fifty- sixth session of the General Assembly for elevating the Commission on Human Settlements to a fully fledged programme now known as the Governing Council of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), and the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat) to be its secretariat. We have no doubt that the upgrading will facilitate the implementation of the Habitat Agenda and the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium. The Secretary-General's programme budget for the biennium 2002-2003 shows that the activities undertaken by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and UN-Habitat continue to depend heavily on extrabudgetary resources. This has severely constrained the ability of both organizations to play their roles effectively due to an unpredictable financial resource base and under-provision. We urge the Secretary-General to ensure stability and predictability in funding UNEP and UN-Habitat through the United Nations regular budget. My delegation would like to congratulate the newly appointed High Commissioner for Human Rights, His Excellency Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. We would like to assure him of our full cooperation, and we look forward to working very closely with him. At the same time, we wish to pay tribute to the outgoing High Commissioner, Her Excellency Mrs. Mary Robinson, for her able leadership. Kenya wishes to underscore the importance of treating human rights issues in a balanced manner. This very Assembly has consistently reaffirmed: “that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and that the international community must treat human rights globally in a fair and equal manner, on the same 27 footing and with the same emphasis”. (resolution 56/165, seventh preambular paragraph) I am afraid that this has not always been so. There is a genuine concern that too much emphasis has been given to political rights at the expense of economic and social rights, such as the right to development. These are vital issues that the international community can no longer afford to take lightly as it endeavours to eliminate hunger and poverty and ensure a just standard of living for all people. Kenya holds the view that the General Assembly should play a leading role in spearheading development initiatives, as envisaged in the Charter. We welcome the progress already made in the reorganization and revitalization of the General Assembly. This organ should now reclaim its leadership role in focusing and shaping debate on issues of global interest. On issues of world security, Kenya has a long record of participation in peacekeeping operations. Today, Kenya is the sixth largest troop contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations in different parts of the world. We are particularly happy to be associated with the success of United Nations peacekeeping operations in East Timor, Sierra Leone, and on the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Greater emphasis should be put on the deployment of adequate force levels to missions in Africa. In particular, we would like to see greater support in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Africa is a continent ravaged by conflicts and instability. However, the recent progress in the resolution of some of these conflicts is very encouraging. In particular, the signing of a protocol between the Government of the Sudan and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement/Army (SPLM/A) in Machakos, Kenya on 20 July 2002 was a very welcome development. Other positive developments towards lasting peace in Africa include the signing of an agreement between the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Rwandese Republic, the holding of peaceful elections in Sierra Leone after years of bitter civil war, and continuing efforts towards reconciliation of the warring factions in Somalia. We also welcome the recent positive developments in Angola. Kenya will continue with its mediation efforts in the region and in the continent as a whole. On the important question of reform of the Security Council, Kenya calls for the speedy conclusion of negotiations aimed at equitable representation and an increase in membership in the Security Council. With the establishment of the Peace and Security Council as an important organ of the new African Union, Africa must now play its rightful role in matters of international peace and security. It is time Africa was accorded the elevated status it deserves in the Security Council. Kenya believes in the rule of law and will support all genuine efforts to this end. We subscribe to peaceful settlement of disputes through regional efforts, the International Tribunals and the International Court of Justice. Kenya fully supports the historic milestone of the adoption of the Rome Statute in 1998 and its entry into force on 1 July 2002. Impunity for serious war crimes is indeed a denial of justice, which must be brought to an end. In 2001, we witnessed the most devastating form of international terrorism in the multiple terrorist attacks of 11 September. As a country that faced a similar attack in 1998, Kenya strongly believes that terrorism can never be justified under any circumstances. We fully support the implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and have already ratified the 12 anti-terrorism conventions. The process of domesticating them is already under way. In conclusion, Kenya looks forward to greater commitment to build a secure and more prosperous world for all. The destiny of mankind is inextricably intertwined in spite of national boundaries. Events in the global arena have clearly demonstrated that the effects of ignorance, poverty, disease and insecurity in one region or another country can impact negatively on the well-being of the rest of the world. Let us get together and build a world where all can live in peace and prosperity.  ﻿I have the honour, on behalf of my country, the United Arab Emirates, to extend to you, Sir, and to your friendly country, the Czech Republic, our congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. We are confident that your great skill and diplomatic experience in international affairs will assist you in achieving the goals of this session. We wish you and the members of the Bureau great success. I also would like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his effective leadership during the previous session. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome and congratulate the Swiss Confederation on becoming a Member of the United Nations. We also look forward to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste soon joining the Organization, which will enhance its universality. We would also like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his wise leadership and his tireless efforts to enhance the role of the United Nations in maintaining peace, security and stability in the world. The States of the world are gathered here today at the beginning of a new session of the General Assembly, hopeful of reaching more effective and transparent solutions to the world's problems, based on fairness and justice, and of establishing peace in the world, which is experiencing instability and an imbalance in international relations. In addition to civil and regional wars, more than half of the world's population is suffering from poverty, famine, epidemics and fatal diseases. Some countries are still occupying the territory of others. This is creating tension and instability in many regions of the world, which is endangering regional and international peace and security. 14 As the international community faces an increasing number of challenges, we are becoming more aware of the importance of complying with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of respecting the sovereignty of international law in resolving, by peaceful means, disputes, conflict and instances of occupation. In this age of globalization and rapid development in information and communication technologies, the world has become a small village that can be reached from anywhere. The different interests of the world's nations have become intertwined more than ever. Thus the problems and sufferings of other peoples cannot be ignored because of geographical distances or differences of culture, civilization and beliefs. The current events in the world prove, without a doubt, that the outcomes of conflicts and wars and the problems of poverty, drug abuse and disease extend beyond their geographical borders, reaching secure regions and threatening their stability. For that reason, the establishment of international peace and security in the world is the joint responsibility of all Governments and nations, of their public as well as private institutions. The dire need for a global partnership, working under the umbrella of the United Nations with a view to creating a comprehensive and calculated strategy that takes into consideration international law, human and cultural values and people's needs and suffering can never be overestimated. The United Arab Emirates is well aware of the strategic importance of the Arabian Gulf region, and it is aware that the security of the Arabian Gulf cannot be separated from international peace and security. Furthermore, the United Arab Emirates, guided by the wise leadership of His Highness Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan A1-Nahyan, the President of the country, believes in solving disputes by peaceful means, based on the principles of the United Nations Charter and the provisions of international law. On that basis, the United Arab Emirates calls upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to solve the issue of its occupation of the three islands, Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb, and Abu Moussa, through bilateral talks or through the International Court of Justice. We also reaffirm that the United Arab Emirates has complete sovereignty over these three islands, including their air space, their regional waters, the continental shelf and the economic region related to them, as they are an indivisible part of the United Arab Emirates. The United Arab Emirates has more than once shown good will and a serious desire to reach a peaceful solution to the issue of the three islands. This was done through two visits by his Highness, Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, representing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to Tehran, in addition to mutual visits made by the two parties. The United Arab Emirates hopes that those visits will contribute to bringing both parties closer and to reaching a peaceful solution for the three islands. This will reinforce the principle of security and of regional and international peace. In addition, it will affirm the principle of dialogue, peaceful coexistence, trust and good neighbourliness. We have witnessed, during this session, new and encouraging developments regarding the Iraqi issue and the security and stability of the region. The United Arab Emirates welcomes Iraq's acceptance of the return of the United Nations inspectors, in implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. This decision will spare Iraq and the region untold tragedies and catastrophes. We look forward to real cooperation, one built on the United Nations Charter and international resolutions, in order to reach stability and cooperation among the States of the region and to resolve all remaining problems that hinder trust, stability and collaboration among the different parties. We call upon the international community to support the Iraqi decision, to exert greater efforts to solve the pending issues between Iraq and the United Nations, and to lift the sanctions imposed on the Iraqi people and under which they have suffered for 12 years. We welcome, furthermore, the positive attitude expressed by Iraq towards returning the Kuwaiti national archives and properties. We urge it to show more goodwill and take more effective steps by freeing the Kuwaiti prisoners of war and those of third countries, returning the rest of the Kuwaiti properties, respecting the sovereignty of Kuwait and not interfering in Kuwait's internal affairs. We also reiterate the United Arab Emirates' position with regard to the resolution adopted by the Arab Summit in Beirut in March 2002. This resolution rejects the use of force or the threat to use it, along with any military attack against Iraq. This position aims to protect the region from another unnecessary war. We reiterate, furthermore, the importance of 15 securing the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. The United Arab Emirates is very concerned about the dangerous events in the occupied Palestinian territories. We express our sympathy and solidarity with the Palestinian people in their ordeal. We also denounce all acts of aggression committed by the occupying Israeli forces, and we demand that the international community, in particular the large influential countries, the United States of America and the European Union, compel Israel to end immediately all acts of murder, destruction, closure and displacement of the Palestinian people. The United Arab Emirates renews its support of the right of the Palestinians to self-determination and the establishment of their independent State, with Jerusalem as its capital. Accordingly, we reaffirm our support of the Arab peace initiative that was endorsed at the Beirut Summit. This initiative comprises a process for a just and comprehensive settlement that ensures the rights of both parties. Such a position was expressed by United States President George W. Bush in a speech calling for the creation of a Palestinian State. We also call upon Israel to end its continuous violations of the agreements it made within the framework of the peace process and to resume peace talks in accordance with General Assembly and Security Council resolutions, in particular resolutions 181 (1947), 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 1397 (2002), and 425 (1978). These call for Israel's withdrawal from the Palestinian occupied lands, including the city of Jerusalem, to the 1967 borders, from the Syrian Golan Heights to the line set before 4 June 1967 and from the Lebanese Shabaa farms, and for the dismantling of all settlements in occupied Palestinian and Arab lands and for the return of Palestinian refugees to their homeland. Maintaining peace and security in the Middle East and the Arabian Gulf region depends, to a great extent, on applying a more comprehensive and transparent concept that entails the removal of weapons of mass destruction. The fact that Israel has these weapons, including nuclear weapons, is a direct threat to regional and international security. Accordingly, we again urge the international community and relevant international organizations to pressure Israel, by all means possible, to abandon its nuclear weapons and to subject its nuclear facilities to the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency. This proposal aims to establish a nuclear-free zone, along with a zone that is free of weapons of mass destruction, in the Middle East and the Arabian Gulf, similar to other regions in the world. The United Arab Emirates watches with great concern the escalation in tensions between India and Pakistan. We call upon these two countries to deal with their disputes in a spirit of joint political responsibility that ensures the security of the region and the world. We ask them to resume bilateral negotiations to resolve their standing disputes peacefully in order to maintain regional and international peace and security. International terrorism is a direct threat to the stability of nations and to international peace and the world economy. In denouncing all acts of terrorism, regardless of their motives and sources, the United Arab Emirates reaffirms its commitment to relevant United Nations resolutions on terrorism. It renews its call for an international conference on terrorism to reach a clear definition of terrorism based on the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and regional and international treaties, conventions and covenants. Political and historical events have proven that economic deterioration, poverty, lack of water, debts and foreign occupation pose dangerous threats to life resources and the security of human beings. They are a main cause of conflicts, violence, ethnic cleansing and instability. On that basis, the leaders of the world insisted, in the Plan of Implementation and the Political Declaration of the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development, on the common and differentiated responsibility to solve these problems and on the importance of providing the financial resources to achieve the goals of economic, social and environmental development to eradicate poverty, raise standards of living and achieve global economic development. The United Arab Emirates calls on the Governments of the developed countries to honour the commitments they made in Johannesburg — especially with respect to the developing and least developed countries, as specified in the recommendations emanating from the Summit — and in particular the financial resolutions requiring the developed countries to contribute 0.7 per cent of their national production to help poor, developing States to implement development programmes in their countries. 16 We call upon Governments and relevant organizations to comply with resolutions relevant to sustainable development. The United Arab Emirates has consistently initiated and provided development, financial and humanitarian assistance to many countries, especially developing countries, that suffer from civil and regional wars and natural disasters. We also call upon the international financial institutions to adopt more balanced and fair financial policies to alleviate the developing countries' external debt burden. This would give them the opportunity to participate in formulating decision-making policies relevant to the environment and sustainable development and to help them join the global market, thus reviving and enhancing their national economies. They would thereby become productive members of the international community, effectively promoting the stability of international economic relations. Finally, we hope that the debates on the items on the agenda of this session will achieve positive and concrete results, enhancing the role of the Organization in maintaining international peace and security and making the world a better place for human society. ﻿At the outset, allow me to sincerely congratulate Mr. Kavan on his election to the position of President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I am confident that under his able leadership the work of the Assembly will be conducted in a most productive manner. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the outgoing President, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the successful completion of the work of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to use this opportunity to warmly congratulate Switzerland on becoming a full member of the United Nations family and to welcome the return of the United States to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Following the horrific terrorist attacks of 11 September last year, there have emerged a new vigour and resolve to make our world a safer place for all, not only in promises but in deeds. General Assembly and Security Council resolutions, especially Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), serve as a common platform for combating terrorism. However, their letter and spirit must be fully and thoroughly implemented in order to rid ourselves of global terrorist threats. In our endeavours, the United Nations is proving to be the best framework and unique pillar for the international community's joint actions in maintaining international peace and security, as well as in providing legitimacy to these actions. 13 The prompt and almost universal response of Member States to the requests of the Security Council's Counter-Terrorism Committee is a telling example of how efficient the United Nations can be in mobilizing the international community in facing common challenges. It is our hope that Member States will respond with the same sense of responsibility in another important aspect of eradicating terrorism: to finalize current negotiations on the comprehensive convention on combating international terrorism. Furthermore, Croatia believes that efforts should be intensified to resolve regional conflicts that offer fertile ground for recruiting terrorists. The cycle of violence in the Middle East must end. Parties to the conflict must return to the negotiating table and make a reality of the vision of two peoples living in peace within secure and recognized State borders. We also call for Iraq's full compliance with its international obligations regarding the possession and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Violations of Security Council resolutions must not be tolerated, and we welcome the decision by President Bush to work with the United Nations Security Council in this regard. We must also recognize that today Afghanistan is on a difficult yet hopeful road to recovery with the assistance of the international community. We fully support the Secretary-General in his efforts to move the United Nations from a culture of reaction to one of prevention. We consider that the timely dispatch of well-structured peacekeeping operations with a clear and effective mandate can prevent the recurrence of conflicts and create a platform for rebuilding peace and shattered societies. It is exactly here that new tasks and challenges lie for contemporary peacekeeping operations, whose birth we have witnessed in East Timor and Kosovo. In this regard, we welcome the Security Council's new approach of having regular meetings with troop- contributing countries. As a contributor of military observers in peacekeeping missions in Sierra Leone, Ethiopia and Eritrea and recently in Kashmir, Croatia has found that exchange of information and experience most fruitful and useful for all. That brings me to the subject of Security Council reform, which, as all of us agree, is necessary to address the new political environment of the twenty- first century. Unfortunately, we have still not achieved sufficient political consensus for significant progress in this respect. The lack of progress is certainly discouraging for many. Nevertheless, we must reform the Council in order to be able to adequately address the security threats we are facing today. As we revisit the historic promises made by our world leaders, enshrined in the Millennium Declaration, we must now embark on a process of improving the United Nations as an instrument of global co-operation for the benefit of all humankind. In this regard, we commend the Secretary-General for his report on the integrated and coordinated implementation of, and follow-up to, the outcome of the major United Nations conferences and summits, as a necessary prerequisite to implementing the goals set in the Millennium Declaration. To that end, the full and constant co-operation of Member States and the Secretariat is essential. The Economic and Social Council has continued on the path of strengthening its role within the United Nations system. A number of innovative precedents have been set this year related to the improvement of cooperation and coordination among many bodies of the United Nations and between the Economic and Social Council and the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and to the Council's cooperation with non-governmental organizations and the private sector. The resolution concerning the Ad Hoc Advisory Group on African Countries emerging from conflicts was adopted to help such countries in their peace- building processes. Guinea-Bissau has already submitted an official request for the establishment of such an Ad Hoc Advisory Group for its own country. Croatia is pleased that it can contribute, through the President of the Economic and Social Council, to the revival and strengthening of that highly important body. The United Nations should continue to keep development at the forefront of all areas on the Organization's substantive agenda. Among all multilateral organizations, the United Nations is the only one with the institutional capability to address and manage the challenges of globalization. The Croatian delegation hopes that the outcome and follow-up of the conferences held at Monterrey and Johannesburg will keep our commitment on track, in particular with regard to mobilizing additional financial resources. We 14 must work together to improve the lives of people in poverty and to reverse the continuing degradation of the global environment. A truly global mobilization of all relevant stakeholders will be necessary to ensure that the outcomes of those conferences are transformed into reality. We note the broader acceptance by Member States of United Nations norms, which will ultimately lead to the globalization of human rights and to a universally recognized international code of human rights. As Governments, we must provide the environment for the universal acceptance and full implementation of such rights. Croatia is contributing to that goal through its membership in the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Global contributions comprise individual achievements. In order to contribute to global peace, security and development, each country must be stable and secure and must function on a well-founded economic system. My Government is doing exactly that. In October last year, Croatia signed the Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union. Over the past two years, we have introduced a set of reforms aimed at bringing Croatian society closer to the European Union and to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The commitment of the Croatian Government in that respect was recognized by the European Commission. In its first report on the stabilization and association process, issued this past spring, Croatia was singled out as the country most advanced in the process. Another important element in that regard is regional cooperation, in which Croatia plays a very active role. The outstanding issues that may reflect on the region's stability, such as the return of refugees, are high on my Government's priority list. Therefore, Croatia has adopted an action plan for the voluntary return of refugees through the end of the next year. We have significantly improved bilateral relations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and will continue to do so. In the light of the discussion between the two delegations held just a few days ago, I believe that the remaining open issues will be successfully resolved in the near future. One of those issues is the identification and delimitation of the land and sea border in the area of Prevlaka. Intensive negotiations are under way, and we believe that some form of temporary solution may be reached soon. In any event, the situation concerning Prevlaka no longer represents a threat to peace and security, and therefore we believe that the United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka has successfully accomplished its mandate and that, consequently, that mandate should not be extended after it expires. With regard to border issues, I would like to report an important success: an agreement on the northern part of our border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. That agreement was reached through the valuable efforts of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whom we sincerely thank. At this point, shortly before the end of the United Nations presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to express my Government's appreciation for the Organization's overall contribution to the stability and development of that country. On the other hand, we cannot fail to express our deep frustration at the continued failure to apprehend two of the most notorious war criminals to date: Karadzić and Mladić. We strongly reiterate the view that lasting stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be achieved only with the arrest of Karadzić and Mladić and with their extradition to the appropriate authorities. Bringing those two individuals to trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia would serve to provide closure for many victims who suffered terribly. The same goes for Sljivanćanin and Radić, indicted by the Tribunal for war crimes committed on Croatian territory. Having faith in the maxim No peace without justice', my Government attaches the highest importance to bringing to justice all those guilty of war crimes. We are committed to maintaining the good and extensive cooperation that we have established with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, and we urge other countries within its mandate to do so. However, that does not diminish the key role that domestic war crimes trials play in the process of healing and national reconciliation. The Croatian judiciary is ready and willing to meet these challenges. In that spirit, the Republic of Croatia welcomed the entry into force of the Rome Statute and looks forward to the operationalization of the International Criminal Court. The establishment of the first such permanent Court is crucial in putting an end to the culture of impunity and selective justice. By 15 strengthening the universal rule of law, which in turn leads to the advancement of universal peace and security, the new Court holds the promise of becoming a true guarantor of the ideals enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Our fundamental and common interests in world peace, security and development require our concerted and united efforts. I am confident that this fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly will take us a step further in realizing those common goals.   ﻿It was 10 years ago, immediately following the admission of newborn Slovenia to the United Nations, that I addressed the Assembly for the first time. I did so with great pride, with faith in the United Nations and with gratitude for the chance given to my country to present to the international community its own views on current world affairs, with a sense of responsibility for its actions not only towards its own citizens, but also towards the entire international democratic community. Looking back at the past decade, I can say without the slightest reservation that, without the United Nations, life on our planet would be even more uncertain, social injustice would be even more widespread and global disparities in prosperity even more marked. There would be even more systematic violations of human rights in many States and even more wars. In spite of its acknowledged weaknesses and inefficiencies, this world Organization has done great work. I daresay that, throughout its membership, Slovenia, too, has contributed to this through its own active pursuit of the principles of the United Nations. It received widespread recognition for the work it accomplished as a non-permanent member of the Security Council; this is something of which we are particularly proud. 2 The United Nations decisions at the historic Millennium Summit have already placed the Organization in the future realm of our global world. The violence committed by States against their own peoples is now faced with a new force: the ethic of the democratic world. This ethic does not recognize absolute State sovereignty or absolute non-interference in internal affairs when systematic mass violations of human rights, through State terror, occur. The principle of humanitarian intervention is the beginning of an important process of implementing global ethics in the governance of this globalized and increasingly interdependent world. It is also a clear message to the authors of international law and to international judicial institutions. It is one of the pillars of the next phase of international law, as is the International Criminal Court. No one any longer has responsibility only towards themselves. State sovereignty is no longer untouchable. Everyone, in their actions, also has a responsibility towards global society, for in an increasingly integrated world, the actions of one easily affect others. Certain measures of the global community of States in response to the challenges of the twenty-first century, such as the special session on the future of children, the World Summit Sustainable Development and the forthcoming meetings on a better future for Africa are signs that the United Nations is gaining in political and moral clout as an Organization common to all States and as an organization capable of finding the strength to carry out the announced internal reforms. In that context, Slovenia supports the implementation of the Millennium Declaration and the Secretary-General's proposed reforms. That these efforts are urgently needed became particularly apparent last year on 11 September, a day of tragedy not only for New York, Washington and the United States in general, but for all humanity. The entire democratic world joined in the fight against international terrorism. Slovenia also did so with great resolve. No one who cared for humanity just stood aside. But as time passed, it became increasingly clear that even the best military weaponry of the anti- terrorist coalition could not reach down to the social roots of this horrendous evil. This evil is craftily taking advantage of the apathy and the anger of people and States without a future. This evil is trying to regain its strength by playing on religious, cultural and civilizational differences, intertwined with the great social rifts in our global world. Evil, understood in this way an evil that threatens to use the most atrocious weapons of mass destruction can be eradicated only through concerted action by democratic States under the umbrella of the United Nations. It is precisely in this context that the authority and credibility of the United Nations are on trial. The Organization has proven itself capable of reaching common positions and decisions even on the most demanding issues. We are capable of defining common positions, even concerning the actions of those who do not respect these common decisions. The United Nations now must have the ability not only to speak of those positions, but also to implement them through concerted action. That is the responsibility that all of us face today. Globalization, with all of its positive and negative aspects, is a given fact. Let us do more to transform that fact into something that is in keeping with the needs of the people and the rule of individual and collective human rights. Certainly, this cannot be achieved by trying to drive peoples, States, cultures, religions and civilizations away from their own identities, by trying to place them under the common denominator of a single global identity. That would signify the collapse of our human world, bearing disastrous consequences. Today's world, where borders between States and particularly between civilizations are growing less rigid, is a world full of plural identities and of clearly defined national, cultural and religious entities that are beginning to open up to one another. This plurality calls for a unique integrating factor. That factor can only be a global ethic based on the ancient principle of reciprocity among human beings: do unto others as you would have others do unto you. In times of interdependence among each and every one of us, such values are particularly important. The global ethic should be developed based on this value, for it is a value with deep roots in the world's age-old great religions and civilizations. Based on this value, we will be able to strengthen universal human rights and global social justice, and without that justice, one cannot expect the world to be a safe and peaceful place offering people justified hope that our planet belongs to all of humanity. 3 International terrorism has unveiled the negative aspects of interdependence among our societies. We must now do more to strengthen the positive aspects and to create new ones. The environmental, economic and ethical challenges humanity is facing today require a radical rethinking of global governance and the establishment of global responsibility. This is so much more so since we are faced with the breakdown of regulation and control in global trade, with an inequitable global development machinery that generates misery and humiliation, and that manifests a relentless preference for economic and financial logic over ecological, social and human demands. A positive alternative must be found to these negative aspects of our interdependence. Present generations of statesmen, politicians, academicians and civil society all have a duty to lay the foundations of a global ethic and a United Nations that offers stronger guarantees for a world that is no longer so fiercely divided into peoples, nations and States with the right to a future and those who are robbed of that future by the technological and social gaps of our planet. I am convinced that there will be a kinder future for our world and a more creative future for the United Nations. It is with this in mind that I most warmly welcome our new Member, Switzerland, and soon also, Timor-Leste. These two new Members illustrate very clearly all the disparities in our globalized world. I firmly believe that their work in this Assembly will help transform the United Nations into a community for the entire world.  ﻿Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your assumption of the Presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. My delegation is confident that, given your vast political skills, you will execute your responsibility as President of the fifty-seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly most honourably. My delegation pledges its total support and cooperation to you in the discharge of your important responsibilities. You can depend on Zambia's support and cooperation. May I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, for the excellent manner in 4 which he presided over the fifty-sixth session of the United Nations General Assembly. My delegation also congratulates the Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for the able manner in which he has steered the work of the United Nations. We are happy to welcome Switzerland and East Timor as new Members of the United Nations family. My delegation looks forward to working closely with the two new Member States. Three days ago, the world commemorated the 1st anniversary of the tragic events of 11 September 2001. The past year has witnessed a global resolve to fight international terrorism. My Government wishes to join the host country in remembering the tragic events of 11 September 2001. My delegation salutes the efforts of the United Nations in ensuring that there is peace in the world. I am pleased to note that there are signs of positive developments in most of the trouble spots where there have been conflicts. The African Union and the international community have to work together as partners in conflict prevention and peace-building. In the past forty years, Africa has lost too much blood through conflicts. Zambia is ready and willing to play her part to create in Africa a culture of respect for the rule of law and human rights, social and economic development, and to promote peace and security. In this regard we welcome the positive signs towards peace in Angola, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo and other conflict areas in Africa. The search for peace is a continuous process. I therefore appeal to the international community to continue extending assistance to bring about peace in the conflict areas around the world. It is against this background that my Government welcomes the implementation of the Lusaka Peace Protocol in Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Since the death of Dr. Jonas Savimbi, the former UNITA rebel leader, in February 2002, the prospects for peace in that country and the entire subregion are encouraging. The ceasefire agreement, signed between the Angolan Government and the UNITA military, further paved way for the implementation of the Lusaka Peace Protocol of November 1994. The full implementation of the Lusaka Protocol is vital for the reintegration of Angola in the Southern African economy and the promotion of regional peace and stability. The people of Angola require the moral and material support of the international community to complete that process. I would like also to express my country's appreciation to the United Nations Security Council for the measures being undertaken to strengthen the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (MONUC). I am further gratified that the efforts by His Excellency Sir Ketumile Masire, former President of Botswana, to promote internal political dialogue are bearing fruit. I also wish to note, with appreciation, that the number of foreign troops still on Democratic Republic of Congo soil has been significantly reduced. Conflicts have a negative impact on the economic life of the region. To Zambia, as a host to refugees from Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and other parts of the continent, the recent signs of peace are significantly important. My Government hopes that these positive signs will result in the voluntary repatriation of refugees to their countries. Currently, there are 270,000 refugees in designated camps and about 120,000 others who are simultaneously settled in the border areas among the local people in Zambia. My Government will continue to require the material and financial support of the international community to help in the refugee management effort. Since the thirty-seventh session of the Assembly of the former Organization of African Unity, held in Lusaka in July 2001, Africa has continued to refine its partnerships with the rest of the world to foster development. The vehicle for this effort is the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). I wish to convey my Government's appreciation to the leaders of the Group of 8 for endorsing the NEPAD programme during their annual meeting, held in Kananaskis, Canada, on 27 June 2002. I note with appreciation that the G8 countries considered positively the request by the four-nation African representatives of Algeria, Nigeria, Senegal and South Africa, that they earmark for Africa 50 per cent of their projected foreign aid increases in the coming years. I wish to thank the 5 European Union, which has supported the NEPAD programme and remains committed to its pledge of support for the initiative. The past year has seen practical and positive developments in the response of the cooperating partners to African trade liberalization initiatives. In this regard, I wish to take this opportunity to welcome the initiative of the United States Government to refine the scope of the African Growth and Opportunity Act to increase the number of products eligible to be exported to the United States. In the health sector, Africa is experiencing the catastrophic impact of a combination of the HIV/AIDS pandemic and a series of outbreaks of such diseases as malaria, tuberculosis and diarrhoea. Unfortunately, my country is one of those hard hit in this regard. Although my Government has implemented health reforms that focus on ameliorating the situation, far more resources are required to address the problem. My Government has taken a decision to acquire affordable antiretroviral drugs for distribution to people affected with AIDS. My delegation wishes to express its gratitude to our cooperating partners, who have been forthcoming in providing resources for this effort. Early deaths from HIV/AIDS-related illnesses are robbing the country of skilled professionals and creating large numbers of orphaned children. As members are aware, a combination of natural and other factors has caused a food shortage and crisis in the southern African subregion. In response to this impending catastrophe, on 18 July 2002 the United Nations World Food Programme launched an appeal for food aid in support of the affected areas. In response to the food shortage, a number of countries and international organizations have pledged their support. My delegation pays tribute to the United Nations and other cooperating partners in providing assistance to Zambia to mitigate the food shortfall. However, it has come to the Government's attention that some of the food aid products offered to Zambia constituted genetically modified organisms (GMOs). The offer of genetically modified foods has created a difficult situation for the Government. While, on the one hand, we are determined to procure food and seed for the mostly rural population that is hardest hit by the food shortage, we have expressed concern over the true impact of GMOs on our people and soil. Due to our low scientific and technological base, Government has opted for the procurement of non- GMO food products. It is not my Government's intention to sacrifice the lives of the Zambian people by taking this position. However, given the lack of and often conflicting international information on the possible effects of genetically modified products on humans, I therefore wish to request Members' understanding of Zambia's position on GMOs. In this regard, my Government has accepted an offer from the United States Government for Zambian scientists to visit America to study first-hand the GMO factor. Their findings will help us to map out a way forward and to make informed decisions and choices. In conclusion, I wish the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session successful deliberations of the issues before it. I wish to appeal to all Member States to ensure the rapid implementation of decisions emanating therefrom.   ﻿Let me begin by congratulating you on your election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I am confident that given your vast experience and diplomatic skills you will be able to steer this session to a successful conclusion. I would also like to pay tribute to your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, for the outstanding manner in which he conducted the work of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. In addition, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Swiss Confederation as the 190th Member of our family of nations. We are confident that its membership, which formalizes its long involvement with the United Nations, will contribute enormously to the work of the Organization. We look forward to welcoming our newly independent neighbour, the 7 Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, as the 191st Member of the United Nations in the very near future. Malaysia would also like to congratulate Africa on the establishment of the African Union and on its bold new initiatives, such as the New Partnership for Africa's Development. I also thank the Secretary General for his statement before the General Assembly. Malaysia shares his concerns over the four issues identified as threats to world peace. A year has passed since the evil and cowardly attacks against the Organization's host country. As a result, the world has changed fundamentally in many ways. The international community has been galvanized into fighting all forms of terrorism. There is greater recognition that terrorism is a global problem that crosses borders and lurks in many of our countries, often without our knowledge. The Security Council has taken prompt action resulting in mandatory measures aimed at eliminating all forms and manifestations of terrorism and requiring Member States to take legal, administrative, financial control and other law enforcement measures. Malaysia supports that action and reiterates its commitment to comprehensively fighting terrorism in all its forms at the domestic, regional and international levels. Domestically, our Government has acted swiftly and decisively against terrorist groups that have threatened both our national security and international security. We have cooperated extensively at the bilateral level by sharing intelligence information and by implementing measures to cripple transnational crime networks that abet terrorist activities. In the Southeast Asian region, Malaysia and its partners in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations have embarked on a programme of collaboration to deal with the issue at the regional level. At the international level, in addition to our support of United Nations actions and other international and bilateral efforts to fight terrorism, Malaysia works closely with the member States of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and of the Commonwealth. However, Malaysia believes that in our quest to combat terrorism, the norms and principles of international law should not be set aside. We also believe that in dealing with the menace, it is important for the international community to forge a broad consensus on what constitutes terrorism. Without a clear and common definition, certain perpetrators of terrorist acts will justify their actions in the name of State security or national liberation. If the collective effort of the international community to win the fight against terrorism is to succeed, we must start looking at the problem in a comprehensive manner and must respond with a comprehensive strategy. It seems that in our urgency to address the problem, we overlook and continue to ignore why it exists in the first place. We forget that, however unjustified, terrorism is often rooted in political and economic grievances that still have not been adequately addressed. The fight against terrorism is not merely a fight against the perpetrators and conspirators of terrorist acts; it is also a fight against poverty, injustice, subjugation and illegal occupation that breed anger and hatred. There can be no comprehensive victory against terrorism if the root causes of terror are not eliminated. Malaysia also regrets the continued association in certain quarters of Islam and Muslims with terrorism, as if one were synonymous with the other. We would like to reiterate that no race or religion should be condemned or discriminated against simply because some misguided people from that community are, or may have been, involved in terrorist activities. Just as it is easy and convenient to hold a monolithic view of the Muslim world and therefore assume the worst about every adherent of the Islamic faith, it is also easy for Muslims to have a similarly monolithic and therefore incorrect view of other civilizations. If we continue to view each other in such terms, the confidence that has been engendered in the international community in our fight against terrorism can be eroded. It is with those considerations in mind that Malaysia continues to call for the convening of a high- level international conference under the auspices of the United Nations to examine the terrorism issue in all its forms and manifestations and to formulate a joint response to this global threat. Malaysia is concerned at the apparent lack of urgency in addressing the underlying factors that lead to cause terrorism. For example, most of the Muslim world believes that one of the key outstanding issues that continue to elicit resentment and fury is the situation in the Palestinian occupied territories. 8 Malaysia believes that, while all acts of violence against innocent civilians — whether inflicted by suicide bombers or by security forces — must be condemned, we must be even-handed in our approach in dealing with the situation in the region. It is important that we understand the root causes of violence there. We must put it in its proper context: the continued occupation of Arab lands by the Israeli occupying forces, in particular the demolition of Palestinian homes, the devastation of their towns and cities, the destruction of their livelihood and institutions and, worst of all, the loss of thousands of civilian lives and the wounding of tens of thousands more over the decades, which can only result in reactions from the Palestinian people. Israel's oppressive policies and practices have made life for the Palestinians unbearable and have engendered only hatred and resentment against the occupying Power, illegal settlers and those who are perceived to provide support to them. Israel must take advantage of the acceptance of the two-State solution and recognize that political and security issues must be looked at together. It must also acknowledge the need for the establishment of an international protection force to separate the two parties. The international community, including the United Nations, cannot afford to stand on the sidelines indefinitely. It is time for the Security Council to become more actively involved and intervene directly in the situation, beginning with the dispatch of a United Nations or other international peacekeeping force to the occupied territories. Failure to act will only perpetuate the violence and exacerbate the resentment felt by the Palestinians — and by the Muslim world in general — towards those who are perceived to be responsible for refusing to address this issue in a fair and just manner. We are pleased that Afghanistan is now on the threshold of becoming a viable, progressive and democratic State. However, many impediments to national unity and cohesion remain. These must be overcome through sustained international support and, more importantly, through the political will and commitment of the people of Afghanistan themselves. Such support should take the form of increased infusion of development funds and other forms of assistance and, more urgently, the promotion of a more secure environment in the whole country. We owe it to the long-suffering Afghan people to assist in the rehabilitation of their country and to ensure that the circumstances that led to their civil strife are removed and that they will not be abandoned once the immediate task of removing terrorist elements in Afghanistan is completed. If the international community does not focus its efforts on comprehensively fighting terrorism by attempting to find a credible settlement between the Palestinians and the Israelis, and on nation-building efforts in Afghanistan, it risks being dragged into opening up battle fronts that could result in greater instability in the world and hamper efforts at combating terrorism. In particular, we remain concerned that targeting Iraq outside the framework of the United Nations and in contravention of international law would not only be wrong, but result in a more volatile world order. In this regard, we welcome the decision of the United States to work with the United Nations to address this issue rather than pursue a unilateral policy of military intervention. Malaysia agrees that the United Nations must not be cast aside. Engaging the international community through the United Nations, however, must not be merely an exercise in public diplomacy. The international community cannot be made to assume that military intervention against Iraq, in pursuit of both disarmament and regime change, is inevitable and that the United Nations is being engaged only as a matter of course. The strength and relevance of this Organization has never come from affirming the unilateral designs of one Member nation; rather, it rests on the collective will of the international community that emerges from a multilateral process. Engaging the international community means initiating this consensual approach, which can address security concerns, without destabilizing the region, within the norms of international law. In this effort, it is imperative that the international community be presented with clear and incontrovertible evidence of the perceived threat posed by Iraq to regional and international security. At the same time, every diplomatic and political effort should be made to urge Iraq to fully cooperate with the United Nations, including by allowing the return of United Nations weapons inspectors, and to comply with Security Council resolutions, as every State Member of 9 this Organization must do, so as to facilitate a resolution to this issue. A pre-emptive attack against Iraq without any credible evidence being provided to the international community of the threat it poses will have serious implications for the international campaign against terrorism. Such an attack may produce real cleavages and draw imaginary battle lines between the Muslim world and the West, especially if the continued oppression of the Palestinians remains unattended-to. Such an attack could swell the ranks of the discontented in the Muslim world. It would provide a pretext for depraved extremist groups bent on stoking the flames of populist radicalism to mobilize and multiply. While it is important, therefore, to view the Iraq issue in terms of regional security, it is equally important to understand the broader consequences that will follow. In our interdependent world, the need to strengthen the multilateral process is now more urgent than ever if we are to achieve our common goal of a just and humane international order based on international cooperation and solidarity. The broader membership of this Organization has a vital stake in ensuring the centrality of the multilateral process as embodied by the United Nations and its specialized and affiliated agencies. Through it, the Members of the Organization can articulate their concerns and exercise their collective will in the protection and promotion of their interests. It is therefore important to ensure that the Organization and all that it stands for are not set aside on the basis of expediency or the exigencies of the moment. In this context we are reassured by the Secretary-General's emphasis on the imperative of the multilateral process. As the country that will hold the forthcoming chairmanship of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), Malaysia will work together with other NAM members to ensure the continued centrality of this process, including the promotion of their development agenda. In this context, we must continue to exert our combined efforts to ensure that globalization works for the benefit of all. In order to achieve this, we will have to create an international environment that is more conducive to satisfying the legitimate development priorities and needs of developing countries, as well as to addressing the economic imbalances prevailing in the world today. The United Nations has a pivotal role in strengthening the multilateral process. It is ironic that in an era of enormous economic, financial and technological resources and capabilities, the world is witnessing a dangerous crisis of confidence in the credibility of multilateralism as a result of certain negative trends in the international system. This challenge must be squarely and urgently addressed and remedial action taken here at the United Nations and in other relevant international forums. It is the expectation of States Members of the Organization that the United Nations will play a crucial and leading role in all of these efforts. Therein lies the continued relevance of the United Nations to its Member States.  ﻿Let me start by saying how pleased I am to see a representative of my own country presiding over this session of the General Assembly. It is the first time that the Czech Republic has had the honour of chairing this supreme body of the United Nations. I am grateful to all who made this possible by supporting our aspirations. I wish you, Mr. President, every success in the performance of this important function, a function which was raised to such a high standard by your predecessor, Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea. Representing the Government which assumed its function this July, I would like to confirm the continuity of Czech foreign policy, with its emphasis on the Euro-Atlantic dimension but also with a truly global reach and a strong involvement in multilateral cooperation. I should also mention that the Government of the Czech Republic has made its active participation in the fight against terrorism and against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction one of its top priorities. A year ago at this time, the whole world was shocked by the horrific terrorist attacks on the United States of America on 11 September. The appalling dimensions of those attacks revealed the nature of the new threats that the international community is currently facing. Our response must be firm. We must move from the policy of containment to the policy of active struggle against international terrorism. At the 24 same time, we need to discuss issues that may be the source of, or a fertile ground for, violent acts of a similar nature. This November, Prague will host the summit of North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council. The Czech Republic will support NATO's enlargement to include additional countries from Central and Eastern Europe. At the same time, we are aware of the importance of NATO and European Union relations with the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the Mediterranean countries. We also anticipate that the Prague summit will mark an important milestone in the history of the alliance in connection with its transformation to meet such current security challenges as international terrorism and other asymmetric threats. We are convinced that these steps will contribute to strengthening the stability and security of the world as a whole. The Czech Republic is paying great attention to the problem of Iraq. We advocate the unconditional implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions, including those concerning the renewal of arms inspections, disarmament, the release of detained Kuwaiti citizens and the return of confiscated Kuwaiti property. The current regime in Iraq, because of its efforts to develop and produce weapons of mass destruction and its failure to comply with the will of the international community, represents an enormous risk not only for the security and stability of the Middle East region, but for the international community as a whole. I can assure the Assembly that the Czech Republic supports the peaceful resolution of disputes in international relations. However, our nation has its tragic experience with never-ending concessions to aggressive regimes. We must not forget that peace must sometimes be defended by force. The Czech Republic considers the letter by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Iraq to the Secretary-General as a reaction to the firm stand of, and the pressure by, the international community. This pressure on the Iraqi regime must continue until all Security Council requirements are met in full. The Czech Republic is also closely following the developments in the Middle East. Let me recall that our preference in this regard has always been for a peaceful and just settlement of the problem in line with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1403 (2002). The only meaningful option is to continue negotiations with the objective of stabilizing the current situation as a step towards achieving complete and lasting peace in this region. The Czech Republic shares the vision of peaceful co-existence between Israel and an independent and democratic Palestinian State, based on mutual trust and arrangements covering all security concerns. In this regard, we welcome the promising results of the Quartet meeting held earlier this week. With regard to peace and security, we recently witnessed some encouraging progress in the resolution of armed conflicts in Africa, namely, in Angola, Sierra Leone, Liberia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as in other areas, including the Balkans and Afghanistan. We welcome and support the positive changes. For example, the Czech Republic is devoting long-term attention to relations with the States of South-Eastern Europe and to the stabilization efforts of the international community in the western Balkans. This year, the Czech Republic became a participant in the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, which we regard as an important instrument for the economic renewal and reconstruction of the region. As for Afghanistan, we consider peace, stability and democratization a key factor, both for the further peaceful development of the entire region, as well as for the wider international context of the fight against terrorism. The international community has to increase its efforts to stabilize the security situation and support the economic renewal of Afghanistan, including the breaking of its economy's dependence on the cultivation of opium. Important components of the United Nations agenda include the areas of disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The Czech Republic supports the process of the gradual reduction and destruction of nuclear arms within the framework of the ongoing process of the implementation and achievement of the universality of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the coming into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Similarly, the Czech Republic is working to achieve both the universality and rigorous implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention, including the destruction of existing arsenals, and the strengthening of the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention. We also wish to see a renewal in the activities of the Conference on Disarmament and the commencement of 25 substantive talks on a fissile materials cut-off treaty. We invite member States of the Conference to take a decision concerning the enlargement of its membership. The Czech Republic supports steps to strengthen the authority and effectiveness of the United Nations. This includes the reform and enlargement of the Security Council, the revitalization of the General Assembly, adapting peacekeeping operations in line with the Brahimi report, efforts to transform the culture of reaction to a culture of prevention and making changes in the Economic and Social Council and its subsidiary bodies, among other things, as a response to the challenges posed by goals of the Millennium Declaration and recent major United Nations conferences. One of the major challenges currently facing the international community is to ensure that all countries have fair access to the benefits of globalization. Issues such as development assistance and cooperation, debt relief for highly indebted developing countries and non-discriminatory participation in a multilateral trade system, together with what we call good governance, are key both for further economic progress in many parts of the world and for preserving favourable living conditions for future generations. In that context, the Czech Republic welcomes the successful conclusion of the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development, held earlier this year, and of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg just a few weeks ago. The Summit reinforced the determination of the international community to pursue the goal of sustainable development and, most importantly, stressed implementation, time-bound goals and specific commitments, responsibility and accountability. Let us now make sure that the core message of Johannesburg is not forgotten. Let us hope that the Summit is followed by concrete actions at the global, regional, national and local levels, including through initiatives such as the New Partnership for Africa's Development. The Czech Republic attaches great significance to the strengthening of international law and respect for human rights. We are determined to seek an early conclusion of a general United Nations convention on international terrorism. We also welcome the establishment of the International Criminal Court. I believe that the Czech Republic will join the large group of parties to the Rome Statute in the near future. The Czech Republic is conscious of the contribution of the United Nations to promoting respect for, and protection of, human rights. We call for a consistent approach to fulfilling the obligations entered into, in particular in relation to the advancement of women and the protection of the rights of the child, including in situations of armed conflict. We advocate the prevention and gradual elimination of all forms of racism and discrimination, including that against members of ethnic or religious minorities, persons with disabilities and older persons and a ban on torture and the death penalty. We are paying very close attention to the draft optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The Czech Republic will actively promote the adoption of the draft protocol by this session of the General Assembly. This session of the General Assembly will be remembered, inter alia, for the admission of two new members, Switzerland and East Timor. I welcome Switzerland most cordially to the United Nations family, and I look forward to welcoming East Timor. Their entry into the Organization represents a further step towards completing the universality of the membership of the United Nations, the achievement of which the Czech Republic unanimously supports and which represents further proof of the vitality of our Organization. I could stop here. But before I finish, allow me to take advantage of this occasion to raise two issues. First, I would like to reaffirm the continued interest of the Czech Republic in supporting the activities of the United Nations Information Centre in Prague, which last year was housed in new premises — the so-called Prague United Nations House — also seating representative bodies of other organizations of the United Nations system. And finally, on behalf of the people of the Czech Republic, I wish to warmly thank all who generously provided humanitarian and other types of assistance to my country after it had been struck by devastating floods last August. At that critical time, we saw an enormous wave of international solidarity, and the floods thus contributed to a coming together among ourselves, our neighbours and the rest of the world. 26  ﻿It gives me great pleasure to offer, on behalf of the Government of the Sultanate of Oman, our warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its current session. We assure you of our fullest cooperation towards achieving the noble goals and objectives to which we collectively aspire for the benefit of mankind and the maintenance of international peace and security. In this connection, we wish to express our appreciation for the ongoing tireless efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan on behalf of international peace and security, the rule of international law and the work of the Organization in this regard. We also thank him for his annual report, which details the achievements of the United Nations, the obstacles ahead and its vision of the future, embodying the conscience and aspirations of the international community. I also take this opportunity to welcome the accession of the Swiss Federation and the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste to membership of the United Nations. We are confident that their membership will 22 be an important asset in the promotion of the work of this Organization in achieving its noble goals of international peace and security. Here in the renowned city of New York, we are commemorating the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. Once again, we would like to express our deepest sympathies and condolences to the families of the victims of that senseless attack. We wish also to reaffirm our solidarity with the United States of America in fighting all forms of terror against innocent people everywhere. The Middle East is experiencing increased tension due to a serious regression in the peace process on all tracks, particularly the Israeli-Palestinian track. The primary causes of this are the Israeli Government's deviation from the fair principles and foundations established at the 1991 Madrid Conference, and the desire of successive Israeli Governments since 1996 to impose peace through excessive force. This runs counter to Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), and to the formula of land for peace. Israel is pursuing a policy of procrastination and intimidation and is circumventing international instruments and agreements signed by the parties concerned. This has resulted in a further escalation of Palestinian resistance, by all factions and in all forms, to Israeli occupation. My Government condemns all terrorist acts, regardless of their motivation and deplores all acts of violence against innocent civilians, whether perpetrated by the Palestinian or the Israeli side. Events have proven that the use of force against the Palestinian people will not lead to a fair solution, to an end to violence or to security, as the Israeli Government claims; nor will it end the legitimate Palestinian resistance against Israeli occupation. The end of such resistance is contingent upon the end of Israeli occupation. All Arab States have affirmed that the achievement of a peace based on the principles of international law and justice is our strategic choice, and we have exerted great efforts to that end, the latest being the Arab peace initiative adopted unanimously at the Beirut Summit held last March. This historic initiative was widely welcomed by the international community because it is in conformity with international legitimacy and principles, and in compliance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), which demand the withdrawal of Israel from the Arab territories occupied since June 1967, including Al-Quds Al-Sharif, and the granting to Palestinian refugees of the right to return, in return for the recognition of Israel by Arab States and the normalization of relations with it. Security Council resolution 1397 (2002) sets out the concept of establishing a recognized Palestinian State peacefully coexisting alongside the State of Israel. In that connection, my Government calls on the international community, especially Security Council members, to shoulder their responsibility to ensure that the Israeli Government will respect and implement relevant international resolutions and respond seriously to Arab and international efforts. My Government supports the just position taken by the Syrian Arab Republic with respect to regaining the occupied Golan Heights and its request for Israeli withdrawal to the line of 4 June 1967. In the same vein, we support the position of the Republic of Lebanon with regard to recovering the occupied Shab'a farms area and its demand that Israel fully implement Security Council resolution 425 (1978), which calls for the immediate withdrawal of Israeli forces from all Lebanese territory, including the Shab'a farms area. The overall humanitarian situation in Iraq remains tragic due to the ongoing economic sanctions imposed on Iraq since August 1990. Consequently, my Government emphasizes the importance of a Security Council review of the international sanctions policy imposed on countries, a review that would lead to easing the humanitarian harm that befalls peoples, and that would take into consideration the status of a targeted Government's implementation of international resolutions. My Government reiterates its call upon the Security Council to put an end to the human suffering in Iraq, and in that regard we call for the continuation of dialogue and discussions between Iraq and the United Nations with a view to Iraq fulfilling its remaining international commitments. The Security Council needs to put in place a clear-cut and specific mechanism telling Iraq what it needs to do to end the tragic suffering and to arrive at a final and complete lifting of the economic sanctions. We feel optimistic and pleased at the accomplishments of the Arab Summit in Beirut, especially in terms of its positive climate in creating a 23 spirit of understanding and rapprochement between Iraq and Kuwait. In that connection, my Government welcomes the Iraqi initiative to return the Kuwaiti national archives and urges the Iraqi Government to persist with the option of continuous and constructive dialogue and serious consultations to fulfil its unfulfilled commitments under Security Council resolutions, specifically relating to prisoners of war and missing Kuwaiti and third-country citizens. In that regard, we urge the Iraqi Government to cooperate with the Tripartite Commission and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to deal with this humanitarian issue. My Government is confident that the Iraqi file cannot be closed without continuous diplomatic efforts by all, through United Nations channels and in any other political way available. We thus find no justification for any military operation against Iraq. We therefore welcome the statement made by President George W. Bush of the United States at the outset of the general debate, in which he spoke of addressing the Iraqi crisis through the Security Council. My Government follows with great interest and optimism the official contacts maintained between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran regarding the dispute on the three islands belonging to the Emirates, Abu Musa, Greater Tunb and Lesser Tunb. We hope that these contacts and negotiations will lead to an agreement on an effective mechanism for the settlement of this issue. My country, along with other countries in the region, is interested in the establishment of security and stability in the Indian subcontinent. In that regard, we place high value on international efforts to contain the conflict between India and Pakistan, and we urge those countries to benefit from international diplomacy to agree on an effective mechanism leading to a peaceful and final settlement of the Kashmir dispute. Regarding Afghanistan, we welcome the return of that country to the international family, and we look forward to the establishment of security and stability in its territory under the supervision of a Government reflecting the aspirations of all parties in Afghanistan. My Government values international efforts to assist the Afghan Government and the international community's ongoing financial and technical assistance for rebuilding the country and providing for the basic needs of the Afghan people after so many years of suffering and war. My country condemns all forms of terrorism. In line with the purposes of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security, we reaffirm our support for international efforts to fight terrorism and our commitment to the relevant international resolutions, including Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), and all relevant Islamic, Arab and international treaties and agreements to which my country has acceded. My delegation expresses its readiness to cooperate with the United Nations in fighting international terrorism, in accordance with the principles of international law and the principle of national sovereignty, and taking into account the need to distinguish between terrorism and legitimate resistance against occupation. The Sultanate of Oman supports the call for the convening under United Nations auspices of an international conference on terrorism in order to agree on a clear international definition of terrorism and to set up a mechanism to address and eradicate terrorism. My country deeply believes that the accession and commitment of States to treaties and conventions on disarmament will strengthen and preserve peace and security on the regional and international levels. Consequently, the signature of the Sultanate of Oman remains on the record as a State party to such treaties. Based on that principle, we emphasize the need to take practical measures to make the Middle East a region free from all weapons of mass destruction. In that connection, we request Israel to join all relevant treaties, beginning with the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), and to subject its nuclear facilities to the safeguards inspection regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency. That would create a positive climate and put an end to arms proliferation in the region. My country calls on the United Nations to continue its broad-based efforts to rid the world completely of all types of weapons of mass destruction. We urge nuclear-weapon States in particular to formulate time-bound programmes to achieve that goal as soon as possible. In that regard, my Government commends the United States and the Russian Federation for having reached an agreement on the reduction of their nuclear arsenals. 24 My country is currently presiding over the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), and hosted the twenty- second session of the Supreme Council of the GCC, held in December 2001 in Muscat. That summit resulted in the adoption of many decisions and resolutions and other achievements, including the signing of an economic agreement among member States and an agreement on a standardized customs duty of 5 per cent on all imported goods. That agreement will take effect when a customs union among member States comes into force at the beginning of next year. The Council also took a decision on a unified Gulf currency. That will enhance economic structures, facilitate differential trade and increase the Gulf's competitiveness with other regional economic groups, in addition to promoting the labour market and the private sector in our countries. It will also attract more investors and commercial partnerships within the great Arab region, with other friendly States, and in world markets. Among the prominent results of the Muscat summit was our leaders' decision to invite the Republic of Yemen to join a number of Gulf joint establishments. That decision was taken based on the mutual desire and deep belief of both parties that the incorporation of Yemen into the GCC in a gradual and calculated manner will conform to the economic and social needs and development circumstances of Yemen and will serve the common interests of the region. We are working to preserve the environment. We have a strong record of achievements and measures taken by our Government to plan national environmental protection strategies. However, it is no secret that many obstacles threaten our environment internally, regionally and internationally. Among the challenges is the lack of sufficient water to cope with population growth, which will endanger our population and will increase the risk of desertification, making it necessary that we intensify scientific research and allocate the resources necessary for that purpose. We are happy to have participated in the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development, and we wish to emphasize our interest in the outcome documents adopted at the conference. We also take this opportunity to emphasize the need to respect United Nations resolutions and decisions as well as the Charter.  ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I am confident that with your experience you will guide this session to a fruitful conclusion. I would also like to extend my thanks to your predecessor, Ambassador Han Seung-soo of South Korea, for his excellent stewardship of the previous session of the General Assembly. Somalia welcomes the Democratic Republic of East Timor and the Swiss Confederation to the membership of this family of nations. This is a further step towards the realization of the goal of the universality of the United Nations Organization. A year after the tragic events of 11 September 2001, we in Somalia continue to share the feelings of pain and loss of the Government and the people of the United States. We must, as a community of nations, act in unison to combat the scourge of terrorism. In this regard, the Transitional National Government of Somalia continues to be a reliable partner in the campaign against terrorism. It is my privilege to announce to the Assembly that my Government this year signed the Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. We have also started the process of acceding to the Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism of the African Union. We are also working on the implementation of the other requirements of resolution 1373 (2001). Furthermore, we are committed to fully cooperating with other countries on a bilateral basis in the fight against terrorism and continue to identify concrete areas of such cooperation. My Government's resolve in this regard is not based on any short-term tactical considerations but is unequivocal and based on solid principles. We would like to commend the United Nations for organizing a number of international conferences in 2002, starting with the International Conference on Financing for Development and the recent World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, South Africa. We also applaud the 22 United Nations for dedicating a day of discussions on the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), which focused on the development needs of the African continent. We strongly feel that the international community should pay more attention to the development needs of the least developed countries. Donors and creditors should be able to do much more in the areas of trade, debt and aid. We believe that free and fair trade is a vehicle for growth and development, and that thus we are required to make greater efforts to ensure that multilateral trading caters to the urgent and special needs of the least developed countries. In this regard, we are encouraged by Canada's unilateral decision to lift tariffs on African exports to Canada and to abolish subsidies on agricultural products. It is our hope that other developed countries will follow the example set by Canada. With regard to debt, we believe that, unless the massive debts owed by the least developed countries are completely cancelled, those countries will remain strangled by interest and loan principal payments. Aid can be another engine for development and growth and, in this respect, the donors must honour the agreed target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for official development assistance. We cannot but address the plight of the Palestinian people, who are subjected to daily horrors. The killing of innocent civilians, including women and children, the destruction of houses and the daily humiliations inflicted upon the Palestinian people by Israel must be condemned by the international community. It is unconscionable for the international community to stand idly by and watch the continuous siege of President Yasser Arafat and the premeditated destruction of the Palestinian Authority. The people of Palestine, who continue to suffer under the Israeli occupation, have an inalienable right to a State of their own and to choose their own leadership and institutions. The systematic violation of the fundamental human rights of the Palestinian people must be brought to an end. The scourge of conflicts has been afflicting the African continent for decades. In fact, Africa at one time was dubbed the “continent of conflict”. It is gratifying to note that there is a new horizon — that a new dawn is illuminating the darker parts of our continent in conflict. Conflict resolution by Africans themselves is the motto today. A strong wind of peace is blowing in Africa. In Sierra Leone and Liberia in the Mano river region; in Angola; in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi in the Great Lakes region; and in Ethiopia, Eritrea and the Sudan in the Horn of Africa, the ship of peace is sailing. We strongly welcome this movement towards peace in the African continent. As members are aware, Somalia has been an area of a conflict, a conflict that brought untold suffering to the people of Somalia, a disastrous civil war fomented by unpatriotic warlords, resulting in the destruction of all State institutions, the death of hundreds of thousands of Somalis and the displacement of millions. Despite the good intentions of the United Nations, Somalia suffered from the neglect of the international community, especially after 1993. The Somali conflict seemed intractable. It was not until August 2000 that a Transitional National Government and a Transitional National Assembly were constituted and a head of State, His Excellency Mr. Abdikassim Salad Hassan, was elected. That was a result of a conference held in Arta, in the Republic of Djibouti, attended by more than 3,000 Somalis from all regions and all walks of life, including traditional leaders, intellectuals, business persons and women. The warlords were repeatedly invited and opted not to participate. The Transitional National Government of Somalia has continued to engage in dialogue those who choose to be outside the Arta process, with a view to bringing them on board. We have been persistent in encouraging them to renounce war as a means of achieving political gains, and we share our vision of peace and national reconciliation in Somalia and for the Somali people. In our endeavours to achieve peace and stability in Somalia, we have also engaged our brothers elsewhere in the subregion, regional organizations and the United Nations, to assist us in the search for durable peace in Somalia. I am happy to note that the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), with the strong support of the international community, has undertaken a serious peace initiative for Somalia. IGAD has mandated the three frontline States of Kenya, Djibouti 23 and Ethiopia, under the chairmanship of His Excellency President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya, to work out the modalities and time frames for completing the Arta peace process. This has the support of the current Chairman of IGAD, His Excellency Mr. Omer Al-Bashir, President of the Republic of Sudan, and the heads of State of other IGAD countries. The IGAD process for the completion of the Arta process has streamlined the various and often conflicting initiatives for the first time. IGAD has announced that a conference for the completion of the reconciliation process will be held in Kenya on 15 October 2002. The Transitional National Government will participate. We will participate with an open mind and with the interest of the Somali people as our foremost priority. The Transitional National Government will spare no effort to make the national reconciliation conference a success. We are gratified that the international community has recognized that the Arta peace process continues to be the most viable basis for peace and national reconciliation in Somalia. It is our hope that those regional administrations and other parties that have been outside the Arta process will share our vision for peace and stability in Somalia. In this regard, it is of critical importance that the international community send a clear message to all the Somali participants to support the IGAD-sponsored conference in Kenya, making clear that those who try to sabotage it or refuse to participate will be sanctioned by the international community. Equally important is the issue of guarantees for the outcome of the reconciliation conference. We believe and request that the international community should put in place regional and international measures guaranteeing both the finality and the legality of the outcome of the conference in Kenya. The international and regional guarantees must ensure that sanctions will be imposed on any Somali group that rejects the outcome of the reconciliation conference in Kenya. When the Somali parties agree on a peace framework during the October conference in Kenya, there will be an urgent need for international peacekeepers. There will also be an urgent need for disarmament and for the rebuilding of national institutions in Somalia. We urge the United Nations to be ready for this and to plan to meet the new challenges of disarmament, the demobilization of militias and reconstruction. The wind of peace that is blowing across the African continent has finally reached Somalia. As the Transitional National Government, we are committed to the re-emergence of a new Somalia that is at peace with itself, its neighbours and the world. As a law- abiding State, we pledge to respect our obligations under the United Nations Charter and the Constitutive Act of the African Union and to remain a partner for peace and development in our continent and throughout the world.  ﻿This session of the General Assembly is beginning in a context that is still deeply affected by the memory of the painful events that struck the United States, and especially our host city, just a year ago. So I shall begin by paying tribute to the memory of the victims of the attacks of 11 September 2001. This sacrifice is a cruel reminder of how fragile our world remains, exposed to the most unimaginable threats. Humankind needs solidarity, and the Congolese people reaffirms here, through me, its solidarity with the people of the United States. The election of Mr. Jan Kavan to preside over the work of the fifty-seventh session is a tribute to his beautiful country, the Czech Republic, and to his reputation as an outstanding statesman whose experience and knowledge will inspire and guide our work. To Mr. Han Seung-soo, President of the Assembly at its fifty-sixth session, we express our earnest thanks for his excellent work. Likewise, we express to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, our profound gratitude and our wishes for success in the noble mission that he is brilliantly carrying out at the head of the Organization. Finally, we welcome and congratulate the Swiss Confederation on the occasion of its admission to the Organization. Undoubtedly, that is a major event for the United Nations, which thereby continues to increase its effectiveness. Two years ago, during the Millennium Summit, held in this Hall, the international expressed its wish to see established throughout the world a climate of peace and security favouring broad prospects for international cooperation, with a view to sustained world development. During that historic meeting, the world's leaders adopted a Declaration whose ambitions were commensurate with the high stakes. In particular, they committed themselves to reducing by half by the year 2015 the proportion of the world's population living in conditions of extreme poverty. Since the Millennium Summit, the international community has convened a number of meetings whose objective was to improve the lives of our peoples through policies of shared management, of solidarity and of preserving the future in various areas involving the responsibility of our States. We should periodically evaluate our progress, and the current session offers us that opportunity. The absence of peace war and insecurity is gravely undermining humanity. Unfortunately, no region in the world has been spared. Because of irrationality, the Middle East, a veritable powder keg, is unravelling before us. The international community must become further involved in the talks between Palestinian and Israelis in order to put an end to the cycle of violence that has ravaged that part of the world for so long. Our own subregion, which covers the Economic Community of Central African States over which we preside longs for peace and security. Having suffered years of war and instability, Central Africa has only one desire: to emerge quickly from this infernal cycle. In that connection, we should firmly seize every opportunity available to us in order permanently to reverse old trends. In Angola, the 4 April 2002 signing of a Memorandum of Understanding as an addendum to the Lusaka Protocol offers a glimmer of hope. We welcome the signing of that agreement and, in the same spirit, make an earnest appeal to the international community to give its full support to the populations of those countries faced with dire poverty. The situation in Burundi remains worrisome despite the formation of a Government of national unity. We ask the parties to go even further and to begin honest negotiations that could give South African mediation, which we encourage, every chance of success. With regard to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we welcome the peace Agreement of 30 July 2002, signed in Pretoria between the heads of State of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and of Rwanda. We also see as a positive development the agreement reached a few days ago in Luanda between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda. By the same token, we encourage the efforts of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for the Democratic Republic of the Congo aimed at concluding an inclusive agreement involving all the sons and daughters of that brotherly country. In the light of the foregoing, I should like to ask the Assembly to devote all necessary attention to the activities of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa. That Committee has just held its 18th ministerial meeting, in Bangui, Central African Republic, and will report to the Assembly during the current session. Its recommendations deserve broad support from the international community. Central Africa needs to regain peace and stability in order to play the major role warranted by its immense potential. Most of the conflicts that afflict our planet have their roots in the extreme poverty from which populations especially in developing countries are suffering. Their poverty is marked by underdevelopment, with all its evil effects, which prevent them from adapting to the new context of the international economy. It is with the goal of stopping the cycle of dire poverty that Africa has established, along with the new African Union, an original plan for its development: the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). NEPAD is Africa's contribution to assisting in its own development. This development choice shares the spirit of the new partnership defined in March 2002 by the Monterrey Consensus and the goals of the Rome World Food Summit and of the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development. Since 15 October 1997, when the transition period in Congo began, my country has been facing major challenges. The first of these challenges to conclude the transition and the electoral process has been met. This political development, in spite of the setbacks and difficulties encountered, has led, thanks to the determination of the Congolese people, to the establishment this year of new democratic institutions following free and fair general elections. The achievement of that first objective has given us ample opportunity better to take up the other challenges and priorities ahead of us, namely the strengthening of peace and security, the consolidation of national unity and democracy, the promotion of human rights, economic reconstruction, and the revitalization of international cooperation. Our determination to engage in active and dynamic international cooperation is reflected in particular in our effective participation in Central African activities through the Economic and Monetary Community of Central African States and the Economic Community of Central African States, of which Congo holds the presidency; in our vision of a common future for the peoples of the subregion; and in our resolute commitment to the Partnership for Africa's Development. It is with great pleasure and conviction that I convey to the Assembly the optimism and high hopes of the Congo a State that has reclaimed its place in the community of nations and intends to keep it. It wishes to serve as a genuine haven of peace, well- being, prosperity and modernity for current and future generations. It is with current and, in particular, future generations in mind that we have resolved, along with five other Central African States, to wage a widespread campaign to preserve forests, animal life and biodiversity in the Congo River Basin. We welcome the determination of the United States of America, France, Germany, Great Britain, Japan and South Africa, as well as that of major international organizations, specialized non- governmental organizations and forestry companies to take an active part in what we call the Congo Basin Initiative. It is also with the goal of speeding up the implementation of the objectives of sustainable development and of a healthy environment that my 12 country is committed to acceding, in the coming months, to the Kyoto Protocol. The Congo hopes to be a State that unreservedly abides by the universal principles and values of human rights, peace, fundamental freedoms and good governance. There can be no doubt that this vision is shared by all of our States. It is the basis our of Organization, whose principal objective is to work for peace and freedom throughout the world. The United Nations must tirelessly and resolutely work daily for the triumph of peace and freedom. Let us not forget this. We cannot forget that the United Nations was create to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war'. It was created essentially for peace. ﻿Mr. President, I wish, at the outset, to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly. I would like also to express my high appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea for having efficiently presided over the deliberations of the fifty-sixth session. Viet Nam joins others in welcoming the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste and the Confederation of Switzerland to our family of nations. We come to this session with the remembrance of the tragic incident of 11 September, when thousands of innocent lives were lost in the towering inferno caused by terrorists. Our world has changed a lot since that day, as Secretary-General Kofi Annan said in his statement before this body last week, to the effect that the terrorist attacks of 11 September were not an isolated event, that they were an extreme example of a global scourge, one which required a broad, sustained and global response. By adopting Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and General Assembly resolution 56/1, by enacting and carrying out various measures in different fields, at national as well as regional levels, the community of world countries has sent out a very clear and resolute message: we condemn in the most categorical terms terrorism under whatever forms against innocent people, and we will take action under the Charter of the United Nations, because that must be the way for our fight to be sustained. Fighting terrorism does not simply mean bringing to justice the perpetrators and conspirators, but also tackling the poverty, injustice, subjugation and illegal occupation that underlie it. That is to say, while fighting against terrorism remains high on our agenda, other issues, notably the resolution of regional conflicts and the implementation of important development goals set out in the Millennium Declaration, such as alleviating poverty, narrowing the gap between the rich and the poor and development gaps within and among nations, fighting against HIV/AIDS, drugs, organized transnational crime, protecting the environment — all these should not be downgraded or become any less urgent. Over the past year, besides efforts against terrorism, the United Nations took the lead in organizing a series of important international conferences, most notably the Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development, the Special Session of the General Assembly on Children, the World Summit on Food Security and the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development, where concrete measures were adopted in the interests of each and every nation. The United Nations also continued its important work on conflict prevention, peace-building in various parts of the world, including its preparations for East Timor's independence, and conflict resolution in Africa and elsewhere. Mention should be made of its efforts relating to the Peace Agreement between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda. The United Nations and the Secretary-General should be commended for these significant endeavours. Even with those achievements, however, the United Nations is expected to do more. The Organization must enhance its efforts to help resolve protracted conflicts, especially those in the Middle East, by peaceful means and free from intervention and imposition. In this vein, we reiterate our full support for the legitimate struggle of the Palestinian people to exercise their inalienable rights to self-determination and to live in an independent and sovereign State. We welcome the dialogue between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea and the resumption of talks between the former and the United States, and we sincerely hope that they will lead to fruitful conclusions. We again join other speakers in voicing our concern over the issue of Iraq, and in welcoming all efforts to defuse the tension. The acceptance by Iraq of the return of United Nations weapons inspectors without conditions gives us some hope that a military attack will be avoided. In a world of interdependence, we consider it even more important to uphold the principle of respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of States. In this regard, an early end must be put to the blockades and embargoes that for decades have been causing immeasurable suffering to the peoples of Cuba, Iraq, Libya and elsewhere. As arms races re-escalate in many parts of the world, the Conference on Disarmament, for four consecutive years, has not been able to start its substantive work; we must find a way to break the deadlock. 20 Effective measures to limit and mitigate the negative impact of globalization on developing countries need to be formulated and implemented to ensure equal development opportunities for all nations. International commitments to raising and maintaining official development assistance at the level of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product, to building an open, equitable multilateral trading system, to removing protectionism with a view to facilitating access of goods from developing countries into developed markets, to debt relief, and to implementing numerous principles to protect the global environment including the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and so on, must be strengthened and put into action. To accomplish these goals, the United Nations and its affiliated agencies and organizations, especially the financial institutions need to strengthen themselves through the ongoing reform process. Viet Nam continues to hold the view that this process should primarily focus on enhancing the role of the General Assembly and on making the Security Council more democratic, representative, transparent and accountable through the expansion of its membership in both the non-permanent and the permanent categories. In that connection, we wish to reaffirm our support for those candidates, such as India, Japan and Germany, that have the capability to make major contributions to the work of that important body. In South-East Asia, the countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) are determined to strengthen their unity and cooperation in order to respond to the challenges arising within and outside the region. The implementation of the Hanoi Plan of Action, the Initiative for ASEAN Integration and the Hanoi Declaration on narrowing the development gap for closer ASEAN integration has achieved initial encouraging results. ASEAN has continued to further deepen its relationship with its dialogue partners as well as other international institutions and organizations, with a view to contributing further to peace, stability and development. Apart from their strong commitment and enormous efforts devoted to the fight against terrorism, including the recent signing of the ASEAN-US Joint Declaration for Cooperation to Combat International Terrorism, the ASEAN countries are working closely with China for the early adoption of a declaration on the conduct of parties in the South China Sea. This is another positive development towards building a code of conduct in the South China Sea, as agreed by ASEAN leaders at the Sixth ASEAN Summit, held in Hanoi in December 1998, thereby contributing to the promotion of confidence-building and the resolution of all disputes by peaceful means. Consistent with its foreign policy of independence, sovereignty, openness, multilateralization and the diversification of its external relations as well as its desire to be a friend and reliable partner of all countries striving for independence, peace and cooperation, Viet Nam has continued to develop and strengthen its friendships and multifaceted cooperation with countries in and outside the region, and with international organizations. Viet Nam is expediting all necessary procedures to join the World Trade Organization soon. The free and democratic general elections held in May 2002 and the successful conclusion of the first session of the new National Assembly, with highly qualified representatives elected to important State, National Assembly and Government positions for the 2002-2007 term, constitute important events in the political life of our nation and create a firm foundation for us to continue the renewal process aimed at building Viet Nam into a strong country with a prosperous people and a just, democratic and civilized society. In striving for those goals, we hope to continue to enjoy the support and cooperation of all countries and organizations. For its part, Vietnam pledges to do its utmost to contribute to the work of the United Nations.  ﻿On behalf of the delegation of Laos, I would like, Sir, to convey to you my congratulations on your election to the presidency of this fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. The current session is taking place at a time when Member States have entered the third year of the process of implementation of the Development Goals adopted at the Millennium Summit. During the past two years, satisfactory progress has been made towards those objectives, yet much more needs to be done. It is our view that the war on poverty deserves our greatest attention, for poverty causes millions of deaths and does not allow for sustainable development. Furthermore, our planet is facing the scourge of terrorism in its various forms. Our Government will work in a spirit of solidarity with the world community in the combat against that scourge. Since the end of the twentieth century, it has been widely claimed that globalization provides tremendous economic and development opportunities to nations. However, it is evident that it has also brought numerous challenges to the majority of the world's population, in particular to those people living in developing countries. The most notable effects of globalization can be seen in the fact that the disparity between the developed and developing countries continues to increase. Against this backdrop, while the developing countries, with a sense of ownership and partnership, have adopted various measures to cope with its disadvantages, they still find themselves confronted with the problem of securing financing and human resources that can handle new technology; added to this is the inability to access the market of the developed countries. Although the International Conference on Financing for Development and other international conferences have given rise to some hope that these disadvantages and challenges will be addressed, the results have been far from satisfactory. Moreover, the World Summit held in Johannesburg earlier this month failed to respond to the strong aspirations of the developing countries and of the world community in addressing the issue of sustainable development. Only by implementing the commitments and pledges adopted at those international conferences can we ensure fair and 5 sustainable development and lasting peace for humankind. We continue to seek a world of peace, coexistence and cooperation for development. However, to our regret, violent disputes and conflicts continue to rage in many parts of our planet due to the legacies of history and other factors. We are again gathered here in the conviction that the United Nations, as the only truly universal Organization, should have a greater responsibility and a more important role to play, in accordance with Charter and international law, in resolving various disputes in the world and in preventing the emergence of new hot spots and interference in the internal affairs of independent and sovereign States. We should also continue to call for reform of the United Nations with a view to enabling it to rise to the formidable challenge of poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development. In particular, the Security Council should be reformed so as to ensure that it fulfils its responsibilities in safeguarding peace and security. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, who has worked tirelessly to render our Organization more effective, and wish him even greater success in his endeavours. The Lao People's Democratic Republic shares the international community's deep concern about the excessive use of force in the Middle East since March this year. In conformity with the common position of the Non-Aligned Movement on the Middle East peace process, the Lao People's Democratic Republic believes that only a politically negotiated settlement acceptable to both parties and implemented under international supervision will bring peace, stability and cooperation to the region. Such a settlement must be based on respect for the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to establish an independent and viable State of their own, so that they can live side by side with Israel in peace and security within internationally recognized borders, in accordance with all relevant United Nations resolutions. The Lao People's Democratic Republic also expresses great concern about the issue of Iraq — an independent and sovereign nation, and a State Member of the United Nations. We are of the view that this issue should be resolved by the United Nations through political means. With regard to the Caribbean region, the Lao People's Democratic Republic reiterates its call for the lifting of the economic, financial and trade embargo imposed against the Republic of Cuba by the Government of the United States of America. An end to this long-standing and obsolete policy would not only mean effective compliance with various General Assembly resolutions, international law and the current world thinking, but also promote economic prosperity and cooperation in the region as a whole. With regard to the Korean Peninsula, the Lao Government welcomes the recent positive developments, especially the inter-Korean ministerial talks, as well as the preparation for negotiations between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the United States of America and Japan. These developments will help pave the way for the achievement of the goal of the peaceful national reunification of Korea, and significantly contribute to the consolidation of peace and stability in East Asia and the Asia-Pacific region. While many other countries are taking advantage of the benefits offered by globalization, the landlocked developing countries are still marginalized due to their geographical disadvantage. Their lack of territorial access to the sea, and their remoteness and isolation from major international markets, as well as the high transit transport costs, continue to be major obstacles for those countries in meeting objectives of national economic development and poverty eradication. Moreover, this geographical handicap deprives us of our right to be competitive in the international trading system and to fully benefit from it. As the country holding the chairmanship of the Group of Landlocked Developing Countries, the Lao People's Democratic Republic expresses its appreciation to the General Assembly for its decision, taken last year, to convene in 2003 an International Ministerial Meeting of Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries and Donor Countries and International Financial and Developmental Institutions on Transit Transport Cooperation. Over the past year, the Lao People's Democratic Republic has recorded a number of important achievements in the field of socio-economic development. One event of significance was the successful election of the fifth National Assembly on 24 February this year. This has contributed to the gradual improvement of living standards of the Lao 6 people across all ethnic groups and ensured and strengthened political stability and social order. While extending its cooperation to the international community in many spheres, the Lao People's Democratic Republic has contributed to the strengthening of Asian solidarity and to the cause of peace, friendship, cooperation and development for nations throughout the world.   ﻿At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the most prestigious post of President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. My delegation is fully confident that his skilful leadership will bring success to this session. I wish to avail myself of this opportunity also to congratulate the outgoing President, Mr. Han Seung- soo of the Republic of Korea, for his tireless efforts and dedication in performing his duties. The United Nations community has recently become richer with the admission to its membership of the Swiss Confederation. Though the valuable contribution of that country to the goals of the United Nations was undisputed even before its formal membership, I congratulate the Swiss Federation on this decision. We are also looking forward to East Timor's joining the Organization, which will take place soon. The heinous acts of 11 September 2001, which struck New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, have brought the international community to a critical juncture, where it is faced with an ultimate challenge: how to find a way to successfully cope with the indiscriminate effects and devastating consequences of acts of international terrorism. 18 The promptness with which the world reacted and the solidarity expressed through the broadest coalition ever against terrorism was exemplary. The United Nations took the lead in combating international terrorism. The Republic of Macedonia, itself a victim of terrorist aggression, has joined the international coalition and is making its contribution to this end. Two days ago, on Sunday, 15 September, my country held, for the fourth time, free and democratic elections. They marked the progress achieved over the past year, and the fact that they went smoothly reaffirmed our commitment to democracy and to the rule of law. They also reaffirmed the maturity of Macedonian society, its Government and its citizens, thus once again establishing its position as an equal and respected member of the European family. Our elections an outstanding democratic achievement are clear proof that all along Macedonia has been seeking political and democratic solutions. They represent an outstanding example of the fact that democracy, elections and political freedom are the most effective mechanisms for a society and its needs, and the most efficient answer to violence as an instrument for achieving political goals. Terrorism has more than once proved itself not only an unworthy ally, but also a dangerous bedfellow one that always turns against those who use it in their pursuit of social change or justice. Therefore, there must be no double standards when dealing with political extremism and terrorism, because, as we have proved, there is not one issue that cannot be dealt with politically, or, better yet, through elections and dialogue, as we have done. The crises in recent history have shown more clearly than ever the importance of cooperation and solidarity among the countries of our region, as well as the importance of developing regional collective security mechanisms in South-eastern Europe. Macedonia, for its part, is making every effort to make its contribution to strengthening cooperation within various regional organizations and initiatives. Further improvement of good-neighbourly relations remains one of the priorities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Macedonia. Allow me in this context to reiterate our firm stance as to the need for the full implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) concerning Kosovo. The Republic of Macedonia has provided continuous support for the efforts of the international community and has always met the requests of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and KFOR in regard to the successful fulfilment of their mandate. We support the UNMIK policy of benchmarks' and believe that it will facilitate the building of a democratic, multi-ethnic society and strengthen the rule of law in Kosovo. Let me recall here the agreement on delineation and demarcation of the border between the Republic of Macedonia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, whose implementation on the ground is to start soon. At this point, let me stress that efforts aimed at undermining the validity of the Agreement, such as the ones we witnessed early this year by the local self- government and Assembly of Kosovo, should be definitively rejected and nullified. In that sense, we support the reaction of the Security Council, which determined that this action was null and void. There are still many challenges ahead of us in the region. All of our goodwill and efforts to provide sustainable stability will not yield results unless we seriously address the real problems present in the region as a consequence of 10 years of wars and instability. Organized crime, various forms of trafficking in drugs, arms, human beings and so on, which most often spur extremism and terrorism, have not been adequately taken into account. National measures do not suffice to eliminate these phenomena. Strong involvement and support on the part of the international community is also indispensable. Allow me to inform the Assembly that the Republic of Macedonia will once again this year submit a draft resolution on the maintenance of international security, good-neighbourliness, stability and development in South-eastern Europe. The draft resolution addresses the complexity of the problems of disarmament, stability and development in this region. The combat against terrorism must not distract us from other important issues on the United Nations agenda. The Millennium Summit and the Secretary- General's road map towards the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration have both identified the direction of future United Nations activities, to which we commit ourselves: the eradication of poverty, the struggle against AIDS, conflict prevention and protection of the environment. 19 The draft resolution will address the complexity of the problems of disarmament, stability and development in this region. The struggle against terrorism must not detract from other important issues on the United Nations agenda. The Millennium Summit and the Secretary- General's road map towards the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration (A/56/326) go hand in hand in identifying the direction of future United Nations activities, to which we commit ourselves: the eradication of poverty, the struggle against HIV/AIDS, conflict prevention and the protection of the environment. Globalization remains one of the most important issues on the international agenda. It is obvious that there are some essential problems that need to be addressed immediately. In the new millennium, it is crucial that the international community address the development agenda in a more comprehensive way and improve the status of the protection of and respect for other fundamental human rights and freedoms. In that context, the implementation of the goals set at the International Conference on Financing for Development and at the World Summit on Sustainable Development together with the special session on children, the most important events of the United Nations this year require the strong political will and commitment of Member States during the forthcoming review period. In that regard, I wish to use this opportunity to welcome the United Nations Declaration on the New Partnership for Africa's Development adopted yesterday by the General Assembly as resolution 57/2. There is a need to build stronger partnerships with other relevant organizations beyond the United Nations system, such as the World Trade Organization (WTO), the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, as well as with the business community, non-governmental organizations and others, in order for them to be closely engaged in the process. The fact that every fourth State Member of our Organization is classified as least developed is certainly no credit to any of us. That is why this issue must be given the highest priority. On disarmament matters, while the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects and the adopted Programme of Action marked a significant first step at the global level towards preventing, combating and eradicating the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, we believe that there is a need for an enhanced follow-up process. The problem of small arms and proliferation has been a particular concern of the Republic of Macedonia and the broader region. It poses a serious threat not only to my country's security and stability, but also to the region at large. Therefore, it is necessary to take strong action to combat the illicit flow of small arms and light weapons. Strengthening the role and relevance of our Organization should remain a topical issue on the United Nations agenda. Additional efforts should be made particularly to strengthen United Nations preventive and peacekeeping capacities. Making progress on issues of equitable representation and reform of the Security Council is no less important. We are looking forward to the deliberations this year of the Open-ended Working Group, aimed at achieving meaningful progress towards making the Security Council more representative and transparent, while preserving and improving its effectiveness for the maintenance of international peace and stability. The Republic of Macedonia has from the very beginning been a strong supporter of the establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC) and was one of the first 60 States to ratify the Rome Statute, which entered into force on 1 July 2002. We support the efforts of the ICC to become truly universal, while believing that the concerns expressed regarding the possibility of politically motivated prosecutions can be addressed in a way that will not compromise the spirit of the Court. The world today faces new challenges. Undoubtedly, the most important is the redefinition of the very essence of international relations. That effort to instil new values is questioned by regimes and rogue leaders who belong to the past and who, contradicting progress, have survived. We are, at this moment, all mesmerized by the development of events surrounding Iraq and the Middle East as a whole. Problems like these demand solutions. Many measures are being considered today, but they must be based on a common conviction that our main task is to construct a new and better world and that these extraordinary steps are not our primary goal. 20 Therefore, it is the firm conviction of the Republic of Macedonia that our most important tools must be dialogue and mutual understanding. We know that very well. The Republic of Macedonia being at the heart of the Balkans and of South-Eastern Europe, where over centuries various cultures and civilizations have left many traces, where Christianity and Islam have struggled for dominance and where ethnicities have become interwoven had every reason to support the proclamation of 2001 as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. As a follow-up and a practical contribution implementing the Global Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations, the Republic of Macedonia will host in November of this year, in Ohrid a World Heritage city of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization a regional forum on dialogue among civilizations, the first gathering of that kind in the region of South-Eastern Europe.  ﻿At the outset, I wish to congratulate Mr. Kavan on his successful election to the leadership post of this Assembly and to offer my country's welcome to East Timor and Switzerland following their recent admission into our family of nations. We gather here slightly more than one year after the appalling, unconscionable events of 11 September 2001. The world is still striving to come to grips with the full implications of the inhumane savagery of the attacks here in New York and in Alexandria, Virginia. Given the great number of areas in which the various Members of this Organization have differing and often competing interests, we can all derive hope and pride from the fact that the solidarity so evident in the General Assembly last year is still largely intact today. Governments around the world continue to cooperate in efforts to identify, locate and shut down terrorist organizations and those who would give comfort and aid to such organizations. Palau, in spite of the inherent limitations imposed by its size, remoteness, capacity constraints and economic vulnerability, has fully committed itself to working with the community of nations to defeat terrorists and their sympathizers. We have aggressively pursued revisions in our laws which make it easier to gather information on suspicious persons and activities, to share information with other jurisdictions, to block suspect financial transactions, to establish domestic criminal penalties for transnational crimes, to specifically recognize acts of terror as crimes under our domestic legal system, and to streamline our procedures for asset seizure and extradition in order to better cooperate with our comrades in this war on terrorism. However, the limitations to which I have referred are hampering our efforts to fully implement these 2 laws. No matter how much we may wish to support the global war on terrorism, Palau, like many other developing nations, will not be able to participate meaningfully in this vital campaign without the assistance of the developed nations. Therefore, to those leading the combat against terrorism, Palau says: “Please, give us the tools we need to make a substantial contribution to this fight and render practical support for your efforts.” While the great majority of nations remain united in their desire to see terrorism defeated — and that is a cause for hope — there are also grounds for concern. Some nations appear to be wavering in their resolve to take concrete actions to prevent terrorist attacks, while some others seem not to fully appreciate the new dynamic of the post-11 September world. Those who supported or condone the events of 11 September take heart when they hear members of this body speak of waiting for a consensus before acting to remove credible threats to national and international stability. Terrorists and their sympathizers are likewise comforted when they hear leaders continue to talk in the old language of how to react to terrorism, rather than speak of how to prevent and pre-empt the next attack. Nothing pleases the forces of global terror more than hearing members of the world coalition against terrorism speak of measured and agreed-upon responses to the next atrocity. The bottom line is this: The potential for catastrophic harm is so great that we cannot wait for the next attack. In this regard, Palau fully supports the United States in its resolve to pre-empt further attacks and loss of life. The very laudable ideal of multilateral, consensus-driven action is good, but it cannot justify and will not excuse the loss of human lives and the degradation of human life that will result from giving those who rely on or sponsor terror the opportunity to strike first, either directly or by proxy. Palau therefore calls upon the Members of the United Nations once again to come together in their commitment to forestall future tragedies. As noted earlier, we can derive some satisfaction from the fact that the goodwill and unity of purpose that prevailed immediately after last year's subhuman attacks in large part continue to exist. However, Palau also notes that the recent World Summit on Sustainable Development revealed a dismal lack of commitment to addressing the development needs of the great majority of nations. The failure of key nations to recommit to the goals of the Rio Earth Summit is equally disappointing. Taken together, those developments demonstrate that such goodwill and solidarity apparently are confined to matters that most concern the developed world. The lack of progress on sustainable development also strongly suggests that the developed world still sees developing nations such as Palau as mere token members of the international community, rather than as viable partners. The current view the developed nations seem to have of the developing world is unacceptable and can lead only to greater unrest and instability in the future. It is time for the unity of purpose that characterizes the global war on terror to be brought to bear in an equally global campaign for sustainable development. It is time to take affirmative action to counteract the effects of globalization and correct the technological imbalances that are widening the gap between developed and developing nations. It is time to take concrete action to give developing nations the tools they need to manage and speed up their own development in ways that will lead to the replacement of dependence on foreign aid with dependence on domestic industry. It is time to implement measures to end the marginalization of developing countries in the new global economy. In that regard, Palau welcomes and applauds the Koizumi Initiative as one of the sadly few positive outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development and calls upon all developed members of the United Nations to develop similar initiatives. The position of certain members of this body on fundamental environmental issues also suggests that global solidarity is limited to areas that concern the major Powers of the developed world. United Nations Members that have enjoyed and continue to enjoy the highest standard of living have done so and continue to do so at the expense of the environmental integrity of our planet. Those major emitters are threatening the lives of small island States such as Palau, placing their mere comfort above our very existence. At the same time, they seek our support for their goals and initiatives. That, too, is unacceptable. Fortunately, most of the developed world, including the governments of the major industrialized economies of Japan and the European Union, has recognized its responsibility and has endorsed the only 3 viable response to the existing and worsening adverse impact of climate change, the Kyoto Protocol, and the no-regrets philosophy it embodies. It is time for those developed nations which have shirked their responsibilities and shunned the Kyoto Protocol to end their callous disregard for the fate of those nations most vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change, to admit that the Kyoto Protocol remains the only meaningful first step towards comprehensively addressing climate change and to join the great body of nations that have pledged to work together through the Kyoto Protocol and beyond to combat the effects of climate change. It is time to take the lessons we have learned from the war on terror, lessons regarding the fundamental importance of working together to respond to a common threat, lessons regarding the very real interdependence of all nations and lessons regarding the need for, and ability of, nations to balance genuine global concerns against perceived self-interests and apply them to the threats posed by climate change and sea-level rise. Throughout my remarks today, I have emphasized Palau's strong support — in some cases, demands — for global action to address the major threats to stability and progress in this new global order. That is because it has become apparent, as never before, that the widest possible participation in responding to those threats must be encouraged, if real and lasting solutions are to be found. In light of that fact, Palau must once again note the folly of excluding any potential partner from the efforts of the United Nations to meet the challenges we now face and to prepare against the challenges to come. Such exclusion is particularly short-sighted in efforts of the international community that go beyond politics and address fundamental human concerns, such as health and education. For that reason, Palau must again call upon the members of the United Nations to welcome the Republic of China — Taiwan — into this Organization. At the very least, the membership at this body should endorse the participation of the Republic of China, Taiwan, in the World Health Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Development Programme and similar bodies dedicated to improving the human condition. Mere politics should not be allowed to compromise or prevent the development of a truly global effort to alleviate human suffering and better mankind. In the area of health, I have appeared before this body in the past, where I discussed the ill effects of tobacco use and our responsibility to protect our youth from the threat of tobacco addiction. I appear before the Assembly today to ask again for its complete support for the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, in order to combat tobacco-related illnesses and complications. Throughout these remarks, I have also repeatedly returned to the idea of security. That is primarily because we feel less secure in the aftermath of the monstrous attacks of 11 September 2001. The very idea of security has taken on new meaning. Our collective understanding of the kind of cooperation and integration that is necessary to provide effective security has changed radically. Yet, one of the foremost bodies for dealing with security, the Security Council, has remained unchanged. That can hardly be right. In this new environment, it is time to re-examine the composition and powers of the Security Council, to consider how it may be made both more accessible and more accountable and to find ways to increase its ability to respond in a prompt, flexible and effective manner to the threats to peace that are sure to arise in the future. In closing, let me again confirm Palau's dedication to, and determination to take part in, the global efforts to meet the challenges facing us all. Palau will continue to do all it can to support universal responses to threats to peace and stability, especially mid- and long-term threats, such as climate change and sea-level rise and the widening gaps between developed and developing nations. On behalf of the people and Government of the Republic of Palau, I call upon all Members of this great Organization to do likewise.  ﻿It is an honour for me to address the General Assembly on behalf of the delegation of the Kingdom of Swaziland. I bring with me the warm greetings and best wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Government and the whole Swazi nation to all members of the United Nations family. The Kingdom of Swaziland joined the rest of the world in sadness to commemorate the first anniversary of the monstrous acts that took place in September last year. Our hearts once again reached out to all those who suffered on that fateful day here in New York and elsewhere in the United States, and to all those whose lives have been affected by subsequent events around the world. In the aftermath of 11 September, the world is understandably preoccupied with the question of security and the war against terror. The Kingdom of Swaziland reiterates its strong commitment to do all in its power to support the global alliance against terrorism, and is determined to ensure that no aspect of terrorism, including its financing and organization, may be permitted to take root within our borders. The progress made in some areas of Africa is part of a general trend of optimism that is spreading among all the countries on our continent. We cannot deny that there remain many serious challenges to address, both in terms of conflict situations and in terms of overall development. We have placed our trust in the African Union to be the vehicle for this shift away from the underdevelopment of the past, and the Kingdom of Swaziland looks forward to working with its fellow members to make the new body one that will truly address the challenges and make a real difference in the lives of our peoples. Of crucial importance to the success of the African Union is the role of the developed world in living up to its commitments to the continent and to all in the developing world. The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to develop peacefully and quietly, according to the aspirations and expectations of its people. Our relationship with the international community remains founded on the principles of peaceful coexistence with all, on the resolution of all disputes through peaceful dialogue, and on mutual respect and due regard for the sovereignty of independent nations. We value our membership in the United Nations and other international, regional and subregional organizations. Our cooperation and friendship with other countries of the world give us an important instrument through which we can address our national economic, social and humanitarian concerns. Of particular importance are our access to international markets for our goods and the attraction of foreign direct investment: both are central to our efforts to improve our economy and to provide jobs for our people. Poverty alleviation remains our number-one priority. Sixty-six per cent of our people are living below the internationally recognized poverty line, and yet our classification as a lower-middle-income country denies us many of the funds and resources that are available to those in other categories. We will be working with the United Nations to ensure that that situation is corrected. In the meantime, we are focusing all our efforts and available resources on programmes that meet the challenge of poverty in a sustainable and equitable manner. Our national development strategy, which is the result of direct consultation with the people themselves, provides us with a blueprint for Government action and conforms precisely to the principles of Agenda 21. 10 Despite all our best efforts and our limited success in many areas, we are restricted in our capacity to meet our objectives, not only by our lack of access to development funds, but also by a multitude of problems that are affecting us simultaneously and that we cannot overcome on our own. As is the case with all developing countries, we are particularly at risk in times of global economic difficulties and are especially vulnerable to disease and to the effects of changing weather patterns. Overshadowing all our development challenges, however, is the threat posed by multiple health risks, including malaria and tuberculosis, but especially HIV/AIDS. AIDS continues to claim the lives of huge numbers of Swazis, and no family in our Kingdom has escaped the deadly touch of that disease. No sector of development is immune from the consequences of the very high and increasing HIV infection rates among our people, with enormous strain placed on our financial and human resources in the battle to cope. We are trying our best in the light of our limited resources. A national emergency response committee on HIV/AIDS has been established to provide the focus for our efforts. We are attacking the enemy on various fronts, with priority placed on prevention, care, counselling and treatment. Perhaps the greatest tragedy is the effect on children who have lost their parents to the disease. We are battling to provide those unfortunate orphans with the means to continue normal lives, especially with regard to food, clothing and schooling. We are ready to embrace approved strategies of medical care, including those that reduce mother-to- child transmission of the virus, and the prescription of anti-retrovirals for those who need them. However, the simple fact is that we cannot afford those costly drugs, and we must rely on the sympathy and support of others. That is why the Kingdom was encouraged by the expressions of commitment at last year's AIDS Summit and by the creation of the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. With our hopes high for support from the Fund, it came as a grave disappointment to our people that our application to the Fund earlier this year had been rejected and that the criteria for selection of projects had become unclear. We earnestly hope that our second application will meet with approval and that international support from that resource, and from those of all who pledged their solemn commitments, may at last be forthcoming to help us in this national disaster. In the meantime, we look to our own resources to fight the battle. One answer lies in the rediscovery of practices that are within our own traditions and culture. We have resurrected the rites of chastity and respect for self that served our people well for many generations in the past, and these are finding increasing acceptance in our nation, especially among the younger generation. As we announced last year, His Majesty has also reached out to the international entertainment community for support, and we have been overwhelmed by the positive and heart-warming response. Next month will see the release of an album of music from international artists, entitled “Songs for Life”, whose proceeds will go entirely to HIV/AIDS programmes in southern Africa. We look forward with great confidence to the success of the album, with its aims of promoting global awareness of the crisis in many countries and of raising funds on a scale that will help those of us most affected to cope with its dreadful consequences. At precisely this moment of maximum disadvantage, the Kingdom of Swaziland and others in the southern African region have been hit hard by food shortages that are affecting 21 per cent of our people, largely as a result of lack of rain. We have been warned that the situation will deteriorate further next season with the likely advent of the El Niño effect. Furthermore, the food security situation has been exacerbated by other problems, such as the lack of clean drinking water in rural areas and the prevalence of HIV/AIDS-related illnesses and deaths, which leave families with severely diminished resources to meet their basic needs. Using our scarce resources, we are making every effort to help our people, and we have made one of our top priorities the construction of dams throughout the rural areas, where the crisis is the most serious. The Kingdom of Swaziland is grateful to the Secretary- General and to the United Nations agencies for their efforts to address those problems through the launching of a United Nations Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeal in response to the humanitarian crisis in southern Africa. We are grateful for the response to the Appeal, and we hope for increased support as the famine tightens its grip on us. We appreciate the direct involvement of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on the humanitarian crisis in our region, Mr. James Morris, and we look forward to working with him, and with all our international friends and partners, who have already been so generous with emergency food aid, to make it through this latest crisis for the Swazi nation. The review of the Kingdom's constitution continues, and the drafting stage is almost complete. The next phase will be the people's review of the draft document to ensure that their wishes have been met. That will be the final stage before the document is formally adopted. We trust that the international community will respect the fact that this final document, the product of extensive consultation with the whole nation, will be the true expression of the wishes of the people themselves, and will serve the Kingdom of Swaziland well for many generations to come. We are grateful to all who have supported us in this nation-building exercise. The Kingdom of Swaziland would like to extend a warm welcome to the United Nations newest Member, Switzerland, and soon-to-be Member East Timor. There now remains just one group of people that is denied the opportunity to participate in the activities of the United Nations and its associated agencies. I refer here to the 23 million inhabitants of the Republic of China on Taiwan, a sovereign State and a constructive member of the international community. These 23 million people have shown time and again that they are willing and able to contribute to the international community. At this critical time in the history of the world, which is faced with the challenges of instability, under-development and economic difficulties, we cannot afford to exclude from our joint efforts the resources and skills of the Republic of China on Taiwan. As a democratic, prosperous and peace-loving nation, Taiwan has displayed her readiness to assist the development challenges of her friends and partners, and has intervened in humanitarian crises across the globe. Taiwan needs the United Nations, and the United Nations needs Taiwan. We therefore appeal once more to our fellow Members to recognize the right of the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan to representation in the United Nations system, and to take the appropriate measures to achieve this objective. We are living in dangerous times. Global tension and the possibility of wide-scale conflict threaten all the hopes for a century of peace, stability and sustainable development that were expressed at our Millennium Summit just two short years ago. Our strength as an Organization depends on consultation and consensus among all Member States in matters that affect the whole world. The summits and special sessions that we all attend at great cost are valuable only insofar as we carry through the resolutions we arrive at and the commitments we make. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that the fundamental principles on which the United Nations was founded still present the best and only chance for humankind to live and work in harmony with one another. The Kingdom of Swaziland here reaffirms her full commitment to the founding Charter of our Organization and offers her fullest support to all its activities that have as their aim to make this world of ours safer, more equal and healthier for all its people. We look forward to working with the United Nations and her associated agencies in the coming year, to help us to meet the development challenges of our people. ﻿Allow me to begin by offering Mr. Jan Kavan my Government's warm congratulations as he assumes the presidency of the General Assembly. He has served the Czech Republic so well as Foreign Minister, and I have full faith in his ability to meet the numerous challenges that the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly will no doubt present. I assure him of my delegation's full support in the execution of his duties. Allow me also to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to Mr. Han Seung-soo for the skill and dedication with which he served this body during the session that has just come to a close. It gives the Government of Malta great pleasure to welcome the recent admission of the Swiss Confederation to our family of nations. We look forward to also welcoming among us the Democratic Republic of East Timor. Their addition serves to further strengthen the trust and belief of all our nations that dialogue within a multilateral context is both worthwhile and irreplaceable. Over the past couple of weeks the international community has been seized of the issue of sustainable development. Malta participated actively in the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in South Africa, and although the Summit's very ambitious objectives could not all be reached, we are satisfied that a plan of action — the Plan of Implementation — with specific targets to tackle key development problems has been adopted. Throughout the negotiations, Malta worked closely with the European Union to include concrete plans and targets in the plan of action. As a result, the Summit agreed on a series of commitments in priority areas such as water and sanitation, desertification, energy and biodiversity. It is our hope that the plan of action will attract the necessary additional resources that will make its implementation possible, thereby making sustainable development a reality for an ever-increasing proportion of humanity. When I had the honour to address the Assembly at the last general debate, in November 2001, I pledged my Government's full support for the Franco-German initiative against the reproductive cloning of human beings. As a sponsor of resolution 56/93, which established the relevant Ad Hoc Committee, we have carefully followed the deliberations within the Committee on the philosophical, medical, legal and ethical considerations associated with this pressing issue. This was a necessary debate which brought to the fore the consensus that exists on the need to 12 respond to the challenges posed by scientists who are unable or unwilling to recognize the deep moral implications of their actions, as well as the dangers that they may pose to mankind. The convergence of political will has now been manifested. The time is therefore ripe for the Ad Hoc Committee to be given a clear mandate to negotiate a convention on this matter. My Government will strive for the timely conclusion of negotiations in this regard, preferably before the end of 2003. However, whether or not the international community concludes such a convention before attempts at reproductive human cloning actually materialize, it is imperative that, through international action and national legislation, Member States deny safe haven to those scientists willing to defy the international community. Before this year is out we shall be commemorating the twentieth anniversary of the opening for signature of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. When, as a newly independent State, Malta called for the commencement of negotiations on such a convention, it was concerned with the numerous unresolved issues of the rights and obligations of States with regard to seas and oceans, and with the seeds of countless conflicts that they might sow. It is today impossible to speculate on the number of occasions on which the legal certainties that the Convention brought about have helped to defuse, dissipate or prevent altogether the scourge of conflict and war. It is the curse of international law in our times to make the news headlines only when it fails, while passing unnoticed and unsung when it succeeds. We would do well to remain conscious of the role that international law, based on the multilateral process, plays in the prevention of conflict and the avoidance of threats to international security. That is to say, we would do well to remember the role it plays in upholding the central mandate of the United Nations itself. The role of the instruments of international law, and in particular those such as the Convention on the Law of the Sea, should be recognized for the contribution they provide in that regard. United Nations Headquarters has just played host to the historic first session of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The complex changes to national legislation necessary to allow for Malta's ratification of the Rome Statute have now reached an advanced stage and are expected to be presented to Parliament in the coming days, thus enabling Malta to formally deposit its instrument of ratification very soon. The new International Criminal Court (ICC) has its roots in the atrocities carried out during the last century — not least those addressed at the Nuremberg trials. The ICC is thus a product of the lessons learned over time and of the widespread political will that has led to the creation of a credible deterrent to the would- be perpetrators of the most heinous crimes. The ICC thus provides an effective, competent and fair forum where those individuals may be tried. The establishment of the Court also represents a major breakthrough in international law and one which has become more — and not less — crucial now that terrorism has imposed itself high on our international agenda. The terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 still loom large in our memories. The anniversary of that tragedy has again filled our television screens with horrific scenes of suffering and death. It has served to remind us of the resolve which is necessary in the face of such horror. My Government has taken part in the fight against international terrorism with full determination, and will continue to do so. This is evidenced not only by our thorough implementation of the international conventions on terrorism and the ongoing process towards the implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) but also by ever-tighter controls and scrutiny at our ports. We undertake further to intensify our efforts in this field in order to assist in the permanent eradication of terrorism in whatever shape or form. The continued turbulence in the Middle East also continues to be a source of great concern to my Government. The cycle of violence that continues to engulf the region provides a confirmation, if ever one were needed, that there is no purely military solution to the conflict. The extrajudicial killings of Palestinians, the deliberate destruction of the property and livelihoods of innocent civilians and the subjection of the entire Palestinian population to collective punishment does not dim the wholly legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people to a State of their own. Likewise, the targeting of Israeli civilians in suicide bombings and other forms of destruction of the lives and property of innocent civilians does untold 13 harm to the cause the perpetrators of those crimes claim to support. No cause, no argument and no justification can legitimize these abhorrent acts by either party to the conflict. My Government looks on in anguish as a fence, reminiscent of the Berlin wall, that most shameful of symbols of the twentieth century, slowly takes shape. It is a harrowing reminder of how little mankind has learned from the past, particularly if we look back to the outbreak of violence in the region since September 2000. Unjustified preconditions to the start of political negotiations further hinder any progress in the discussions on a two-State solution to the conflict. Negotiations, which must start without further delay, must be built on the clear and plain language of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the principle of land for peace. The recent initiative by the States members of the European Union in presenting a road map for the Middle East which outlines a three-stage process leading to the creation of a Palestinian State by 2005 provides a genuine basis for taking negotiations forward. The international community looks to the Quartet to advance in that direction with urgency. An issue which continues to persist in the Mediterranean is the situation in Cyprus, which has remained a cause of concern for more than 25 years. We earnestly hope that an early settlement of the Cyprus question will be found and reiterate our full support for efforts to find a solution on the basis of the relevant Security Council resolutions. The imminent accession of Cyprus to the European Union should provide the necessary impetus for the resolution of this long-standing problem. Malta is encouraged by the efforts of the Secretary-General to engage the Organization in the quest to achieve a resolution to the situation with regard to Iraq before it deteriorates any further. My Government calls upon the Iraqi Government to comply with all its obligations under all the provisions of relevant Security Council resolutions, in particular those concerning disarmament with respect to weapons of mass destruction. Iraq must meet its commitments and allow the re-entry of United Nations inspectors into its territory without any preconditions and as stipulated by the Security Council. The international community should spare no effort in exploring all political and diplomatic options that would or could assist in resolving the issue. Malta is in agreement with the Secretary-General that if Iraq fails to meet its obligations, the Security Council, as the organ entrusted with the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, must shoulder its responsibilities. The Security Council has to ensure compliance with its own resolutions in the interest of the international rule of law. Malta's location at the centre of the Mediterranean has provided us with opportunities for trade and development, which we have been relatively successful at exploiting in the interest of our island, which is otherwise bereft of natural resources. Our strategic location is, however, now also the scene of another socio-economic phenomenon of a much less encouraging nature. I speak here of the poverty divide that cuts across the Mediterranean Sea. The countries of the Mediterranean littoral share much in terms of history, culture and way of life. However the ever more apparent disparities of wealth continue to fuel the movement of thousands of people from the southern Mediterranean and further afield to entrust their lives and hopes into the hands of unscrupulous individuals. These traffickers of human beings, willing to exploit misery and desperation, have little respect for human life and often abandon the would-be immigrants to the elements once they have secured their ill-gotten gains. My Government has increased the punishment meted out to those found guilty of such heinous acts. We have also bolstered our surveillance and rescue capability within our territorial waters and are simultaneously seeking to provide treatment that is as humane as possible to the victims that land on our shores. These efforts have been made, however, in the full knowledge that they deal more with the symptoms of the phenomenon of human trafficking than with its root causes. The imperative of narrowing the wealth divide across the Mediterranean is one of the philosophical cornerstones of the Euro-Med process, which exists to bring the European Union and 12 Mediterranean States together on a number of issues of common concern. Malta has been an avid supporter of the process since its inception and looks forward to developing its role further within this forum as a member of the European Union in the near future. 14 My Government believes that the accession of Malta to the European Union will serve to further enhance our capability to promote peace and prosperity within the Mediterranean, given our reputation as an honest broker that can identify with both sides of the Mediterranean. Inasmuch as this is the case, we also believe that membership in the Union will also serve to strengthen our own internal workings at all levels of society, bringing prosperity to the Maltese both now and for the years to come. Indeed, we believe that membership in the European Union constitutes a natural progression for Malta, given our long-standing historical, cultural and political ties with the Union. The negotiations concerning membership that are currently under way are nearing completion, and we look forward to joining this union of like-minded States at its next enlargement, in line with the timelines established at the Nice meeting of the European Council. Malta has always played a role on the international scene far in excess of its size. This we intend to continue, and I anticipate that all our efforts will combine with those of the other nations of the world to bring about improvements in all the areas that urgently call for our immediate attention. This unswerving determination will guide our efforts in the various forums of which we form part and in the activities we undertake, as together we strive to make a better and secure world for this and future generations. I wish the President every success in his endeavours in presiding over the General Assembly.   ﻿On behalf of the Government and people of Nigeria, I join other delegations in congratulating Mr. Kavan on his election as president of the fifty-seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly. I have no doubt that, under his able leadership, the work of this session will be guided to a successful conclusion. Let me also acknowledge the work done by his predecessor, who guided the affairs of the fifty-sixth session with great skill and commitment. The tireless efforts of our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on behalf of our Organization must not go unnoticed. He deserves our profuse appreciation. I welcome the newest member of our organization, Switzerland. I have no doubt that this nation will bring unique perspectives to the work of the United Nations, which will enhance the attainment of its objectives. It is regrettable that international terrorism continues to pose a threat to international peace and security. There is a need for reviewed and concerted efforts on our part to confront the menace until the threat is halted. The various international instruments aimed at combating terrorism deserve our full support. Nigeria remains deeply committed to the fight against terrorism. We are committed to the early elaboration of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. Despite the best intentions and efforts of the international community, a scourge of a different nature continues to threaten many parts of the world. I refer here to the numerous theatres of conflict around the world. People continue to expend valuable energies and resources in fighting each other, often for causes that are unproductive. The international community has a responsibility, not only to design appropriate strategies for a measured and early response to snuff out these conflicts, but also to find ways and means of 2 addressing their root causes, and managing them to a peaceful conclusion. Only then will true peace and stability reign in the world. While it is true that many of these conflicts have their root causes in poverty, ignorance, real and perceived injustice and the absence of basic freedoms, it is equally evident that they are often exacerbated, especially in the case of African conflicts, by the influx of small arms into the continent. Illicit trade in small arms and light weapons has continued unabated, with disastrous consequences for many developing countries. We are deeply concerned that manufacturing countries are not doing enough to limit the proliferation of these weapons through appropriate safeguards. We, therefore, call on the international community to consider elaborating a legally binding international instrument to control the supply of these weapons to non-State actors. The United Nations peacekeeping role is an invaluable one in the global effort to help contain and resolve conflicts around the world. It deserves to be sustained and strengthened. Nigeria is proud to be an active participant in this peacekeeping and peacemaking effort. We remain committed to this responsibility in the conviction that we are our brother's keeper and in the knowledge that there can be no development without peace and stability. The situation in the Middle East continues to pose a serious threat to international peace and security. We reaffirm our commitment to the right of the Palestinian people to their own independence, as well as the right of the State of Israel to exist within safe and secure international borders, consistent with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). We therefore welcome the vision and the engagement of the Quartet, as well as other sponsors of the Middle East peace process. I urge the parties in the Middle East conflict to cooperate with the international community and give the ongoing peace process a chance. That becomes imperative because we cannot afford a situation of protracted conflict in the subregion. Nigeria notes with concern the threat that the situation in Iraq poses to international peace and security. We hold the view that any further escalation of tension would lead to very serious consequences. Nigeria, therefore, urges the parties concerned to exercise caution and restraint and that the matter be resolved in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. There is no shortage of international good will and commitment to development. Various declarations and programmes eloquently address the need for rapid, durable and sustainable development, as well as the desire for the equitable distribution of the world's wealth. In spite of this good will and good intentions on the part of the international community, more than half of humanity lives in abject poverty and ignorance. For many countries in Africa, hunger and disease remain pervasive and deeply rooted. Human development indices for some of the poorest countries are, indeed, unflattering for a world that is so rich but with resources so unevenly distributed. It is our conviction that urgent, concrete action is required, if the lofty goals we have set for ourselves in the Millennium Declaration to make the world a better place are to be realized. Many developing countries require assistance from the international community in the form of increased official development assistance and foreign direct investment flows and efforts to alleviate their excruciating debt burden and enable them to develop their human and material resource base. Africa remains committed to the attainment of the goals of the Millennium Declaration. In that regard, I am pleased to state that Africa is seeking to lift itself by its own bootstraps, through the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). As members are aware, NEPAD is designed to address, in a sustained and coordinated way, many of the developmental problems associated with Africa's underdevelopment. We are encouraged by the support that NEPAD has so far received from the international community. The latest evidence of this support is the outcome of the recent meeting of the Group of 8 in Kananaskis, Canada, towards the implementation of the Action Plan. It is hoped that the United Nations high-level segment on NEPAD would record greater successes in the much expected endorsement of that initiative by the international community. This and other programmes designed to improve the living conditions of the majority of humanity may not yield the desired results if one of the greatest dangers facing humanity today is not addressed with the commitment and urgency it deserves. I am speaking here of the HIV/AIDS pandemic that continues to bring 3 havoc, misery and hopelessness on humanity, especially in Africa where the pandemic is threatening to wipe out entire generations. For example, it is estimated that out of the 36 million people living with HIV/AIDS worldwide, 75 per cent of them are in sub- Saharan Africa. The consequent toll on the human and material resources of one of the most impoverished regions of the world cannot be overemphasized. Not only is the productive population of Africa being systematically decimated by HIV/AIDS, but efforts to combat this and other diseases, such as malaria, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases, are also diverting scarce resources away from development programmes and projects. Massive assistance is therefore required from the international community to complement the efforts of individual countries. Nigeria will spare no effort to combat these scourges. While we are fully aware of the insidious nature of all of these pestilences, the spread of HIV/ AIDS constitutes by far our greatest source of concern. For that reason, Nigeria is active in contribution to and management of the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS. We have also established a national agency for the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS to coordinate the Government's multisectoral approach to the prevention, control and management of the pandemic. We pledge to continue to do our best in this human struggle against this powerful, destructive force, especially by generating awareness in the country about its prevention and spread. We continue, however, to count on the international community to find cures for these diseases, as well as to give assistance to many of our countries in these efforts. The leadership of the United Nations is critical to the success of these efforts. I wish once again to draw the Assembly's attention to the pernicious issue of corruption and its manifestation at the international level. We have always maintained that it takes two to tango and that the instances of corruption in developing countries have often been supported by encouragement, and inducements and the provision of safe havens by the industrialized countries. Thus, we are strongly advocating that efforts to establish a convention against corruption need to be expedited, so that we can have global action against corruption. There is no doubt that the United Nations has served humanity well. It has come a long way since its humble beginnings in 1945. It remains the only organization to which all nations, in varying degrees and ways, are associated and committed. Humanity is the better for the existence of the United Nations. The Organization provides the basis for our collective security, international cooperation and solidarity, which are essential for human coexistence. We must therefore continue to fine-tune its implementations to make it more responsive to the needs of the times and to prepare it for the challenges of the future, some of which could not have been envisaged by the founding Members. I am pleased to note that there is general agreement among us on the need to reform the Organization so as to make it more democratic in structure, more efficient in management and more manageable in size. Nigeria is a major proponent of the envisaged reforms, especially those regarding the structure and working methods of the Security Council. Nigeria envisages a new Security Council in which it will play the role destined by its geopolitical circumstances and the challenges of the twenty-first century. In this regard, we are willing to contribute to efforts and stand ready to support others of like mind and circumstances in this endeavour.  ﻿Allow me, on behalf of my Government and in my own name, to salute Mr. Kavan on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We are convinced that his knowledge and diplomatic experience will guide us to success in our activities. As the international situation remains caught in the throes of instability, insecurity, economic backwardness and the scourge of pandemics and hunger, we nevertheless note with pleasure the great progress that has been made since our last session. After decades of conflict, peace was finally restored throughout southern Africa and is now slowly becoming a reality in other regions. The people of East Timor were finally able to assert their self- determination and independence. Countries such as Angola, which have actively advocated the legitimate rights and interests of East Timor at the United Nations, take great pleasure in welcoming that new sister republic to the family of this world Organization. Important advances were also made by the international community in the struggle against terrorism. Thanks to a global and coordinated effort, major terrorist networks have been dismembered. Angola reiterates its strong condemnation of terrorist acts, such as that perpetrated against the American 22 people in September last year. Angola continues to be committed to the strict implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We support stronger control measures, particularly in the financial area, so as increasingly to curb the scope of action of terrorist groups. All these advances underscore the fact that, in spite of their complexity, the serious problems that afflict our world today can be resolved. No country or region should be doomed to live forever under the scourge of war and terror or be deprived of its rights. Under the auspices of the United Nations, the international community must react to crisis situations expeditiously and effectively. Experience has shown that belated and ineffectual reactions lead to the escalation of protracted and intractable conflicts, especially in Africa. Fortunately, however, the individual and collective efforts of many Governments in Africa are now easing these tensions, laying the essential bases for a solid, just and lasting peace. The current situation in Angola is a reflection of that reality. For the first time since our independence, Angola and Angolans are now enjoying a climate of authentic peace, thanks to the allaying of factors that could have provoked a resurgence of the past war and insecurity. The efforts of the Angolan Government have blazed the trail from a fratricidal war towards irreversible peace, thanks to the goodwill and profound patriotic spirit demonstrated by all Angolans. Military hostilities effectively ended seven months ago. The peace understandings reached on 4 April have been scrupulously adhered to. Armed political parties no longer exist. Today, there is just one single army, under the authority of the Angolan Government. The peace process will soon be concluded with the completion of the political tasks still pending under the Lusaka Protocol. In Angola, the process of economic and social rehabilitation is well under way and Government institutions have begun to operate normally throughout our national territory. Clearly, given the current situation, it will be difficult for the Angolan Government to rise appropriately to the nation's economic and social challenges. Our main challenge now lies in the reintegration into society of thousands of combat veterans, 4 million displaced persons, refugees and thousands upon thousands of handicapped, war orphans and widows. On behalf of my Government, I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to thank the Secretary- General, members of the troika of observer nations in the peace process and all those who, in various ways, have contributed to the achievement of peace in Angola and who have pledged their assistance to solve the problems caused by the recently ended war. Now at peace, Angola is more than ever ready and willing to take up its role as a sister nation of Africa and of the world. In the coming days, it will assume the presidency of the Southern Africa Development Community, the most important regional organization for the economic integration of southern Africa. Angola is also a candidate for a non-permanent seat in the Security Council in the elections scheduled for this session of the General Assembly. In these bodies, Angola intends to contribute actively towards an environment of stability, fostering the development and economic welfare of our peoples. Of central concern to Angola is the issue of peace in Central Africa, particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Only over time will it be possible to avert the widespread destabilization of the region. Angola has been a factor of stability in Central Africa, having contributed substantially to the cessation of the wave of violence and to the relative peace now enjoyed by the population in the area. In the context of these efforts, and under Angola's aegis, the Presidents of the DRC and Uganda signed an agreement in Luanda on 6 September. This was seen as a crucial step for the complete settlement of the Congolese conflict and for the establishment of good neighbourly relations between the two countries. Angola welcomes the diplomatic initiatives undertaken by other countries to resolve the conflict, whether or not they are involved in the conflict, under the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement and the understandings reached by the Congolese parties themselves. Angola advocates a new regional order of peace, security, cooperation and development, to be based on respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, democratic values and respect for human rights. We are willing to work together with other central and southern African countries and to offer them our good offices. The instability in some parts of the world requires a greater measure of commitment by the United 23 Nations and the parties concerned for peace and security. Special attention should continue to be focused on the settlement of the Somali conflict, fostering unification of the country and consolidation of lasting peace there. In Western Sahara, we are concerned at delays in the process towards a referendum by those resident in the territory. Angola urges the parties involved to show flexibility and to continue cooperating with the United Nations and the African Union towards a negotiated settlement. In the Middle East, renewed escalation of the violence may hamper current initiatives towards a peaceful settlement of the Palestine issue and the termination of Arab-Israeli crisis. We urge the parties to return to the negotiating table and to find a political settlement that will serve the best interests of all peoples living in the region and meet their security requirements. Last July, the African States established the African Union as a more effective tool to help in the resolution of innumerable problems that are at the root of underdevelopment, such as poverty, foreign debt, lack of know-how and epidemics, among others. Our priority is to end the current economic stagnation in Africa. The establishment of the New Partnership for Africa's Development reflects the determination of African Governments to resolve the problems of economic backwardness, poverty and social exclusion that afflict the majority of their peoples and the continuing marginalization of Africa from international markets in terms of capital, services and goods. Angola hopes that the international community, especially donor nations, will lend Africa a helping hand by increasing official development assistance on the basis of fair and non-discriminatory criteria. In closing, allow me to offer my hearty congratulations to Switzerland as it joins our family of members of the United Nations.   ﻿First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his assumption of the Presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. At the same time, I pay high tribute to Mr. Han Seung-soo, former President of the General Assembly, for his leadership. I am pleased on this occasion to congratulate Switzerland on becoming a United Nations Member State. My congratulations also go to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, which declared its independence on 20 May. Japan heartily supports its admission to the membership of the United Nations. The Peace Bell in the garden of United Nations Headquarters was presented to the United Nations in 1954 by the Japanese people with a prayer for world peace. It has been rung every year for world peace. The beautiful sound of the bell, which was made from coins collected from all over the world, reminds us of what the United Nations represents. In order to ensure world peace and prosperity, we need to harmonize a range of efforts which encompass not only military measures, but also initiatives for the solution of poverty problems and the establishment of social infrastructures that will put an end to human rights violations. The United Nations should be a forum where the contributions of each and every State are consolidated and implemented in the most efficient manner. No single State or organization can accomplish this. Only the United Nations is capable of carrying out such a lofty task. In this connection, I would like to refer to the issue of Iraq, which is of grave concern to the international community. Iraq must comply with all the relevant Security Council resolutions. In particular, Iraq must allow immediate and unconditional inspections and dispose of all weapons of mass destruction. It is important for the international community to continue to work together and to engage more strenuously in diplomatic efforts through the United Nations. In doing so, we must pursue the adoption of necessary and appropriate Security Council resolutions as soon as possible. Terrorism remains a critical issue this year. Today, in addition to terrorism, I would like to take up other major challenges which the United Nations must address and to describe Japan's contributions in those areas, namely, the consolidation of peace and nation- building, the environment and development, and nuclear disarmament. I will also touch upon my ideas for the realization of United Nations reform, which is essential in order for this Organization to tackle these challenges successfully. The first challenge is the fight against terrorism. Just after the terrorist attacks on 11 September, I visited ground zero. Seeing with my own eyes the magnitude of the destruction, I was speechless at the enormity of the terrorist attack. 11 September is a challenge not only to the United States, but also to all humankind. The prevention and eradication of terrorism are an important task for the United Nations and, indeed, for all Member States. Japan calls upon all States to accede to international conventions related to terrorism. It is important to develop international norms in this area, such as a comprehensive convention on international terrorism and an international convention for the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism. Safe havens for terrorists cannot be allowed. Japan will further strengthen its domestic counter-terrorism measures. Consulting closely with the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council, it will share its knowledge and expertise in counter-terrorism measures with those States that are in need of it. Japan will respond to threats where weapons of mass destruction might be used in acts of terrorism by actively joining the efforts of the international community to prevent the proliferation of these weapons. 18 The second challenge is the consolidation of peace and nation-building. Japan attaches great importance to extending post-conflict assistance for the consolidation of peace and nation-building to prevent the recurrence of conflicts. Having developed a mechanism to enable it to cooperate effectively in broader areas, Japan has entered a new stage in its cooperation with peacekeeping operations. This positive posture is manifested in its deployment since February of 690 Self-Defence Force personnel, mainly as an engineer group, to the peacekeeping operation in East Timor. Japan will enhance its cooperation in other areas as well, such as demining, rehabilitation of infrastructure, elections and the establishment of systems for internal security. Concerning Afghanistan, at the International Conference on Reconstruction Assistance to Afghanistan held in Tokyo in January, Japan strove to solidify the resolve of the international community. We are now preparing a programme to assist the demobilization and reintegration of former combatants, which will give form to our proposed Register for Peace. My country is also contributing to regional reconstruction by developing an assistance project for the resettlement of refugees and displaced people in such areas as Kandahar. In the Middle East, it is crucial that the vision of the peaceful coexistence of Israel and an independent Palestinian State materialize as early as possible. Japan will assist the reform of the Palestinian Authority, which is aimed at the establishment of a new State by the Palestinian people. We will do so particularly by providing technical assistance for democratization. Elections by the Palestinians are the first step towards nation-building and I believe that the international community should extend assistance to ensure their success. However, putting an end to the vicious circle of violence remains our most urgent task. Japan resolutely condemns terrorist acts by Palestinian extremists and strongly urges Israel to immediately withdraw its troops to the line of September 2000, halt its military operations and lift the economic closures in the autonomous areas. In Africa, peace and stability are prerequisites for development. We are encouraged by the positive movements in that continent, such as the realization of peace in Angola and a partial ceasefire in Sudan. Japan will actively support the efforts of African States for conflict resolution and the consolidation of peace. The third challenge is the simultaneous achievement of environmental protection and development. Towards that end, it is of course important to utilize all available financial resources and to develop human resources, which are the engine of nation-building. However, ownership by developing countries and their partnership with the international community, which supports their ownership, are also essential. In this respect, we welcome the development of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) and the establishment of the African Union as manifestations of ownership by African countries. In order to help strengthen both African ownership and the partnership with the international community, and building on the results of the successful World Summit on Sustainable Development that took place in Johannesburg, Japan will convene the third Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD III) in October 2003. Also, in pursuit of sustainable development, it will host an international ministerial-level conference on water in Kyoto in March 2003. Japan will continue to participate actively in worldwide actions for environmental protection and development by providing expertise and taking concrete action. Fourthly, I would like to touch upon the nuclear disarmament issue. I believe that Japan, as the only country in human history to have suffered nuclear devastation, has a significant role to play in nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. Japan will continue its efforts to realize a peaceful and safe world, free of nuclear weapons, as early as possible. To that end, we will propose a draft resolution entitled A path to the total elimination of nuclear weapons' at this session of the General Assembly, and we will redouble our efforts to achieve the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. When addressing these challenges, we must ensure that the variety of measures taken by Member States are effectively coordinated. The United Nations must exercise its leadership in this endeavour. We, that is all Member States, must breathe new life into the United Nations by strengthening its functions through reforms. Next year, the debate on Security Council reform will enter its tenth year. I believe that we should 19 now focus our discussion on such questions as the number of seats on an enlarged Security Council. Japan intends to work hard to that end. In this connection, I would remind all Member States of the question of the enemy State' clauses, meaningless legacies of the twentieth century, that remain in the United Nations Charter. Since assuming office as Prime Minister in April 2001, I have proceeded with a series of reforms to enable Japan to respond appropriately to the new era. The United Nations also must continue to reform itself so as to respond to new situations in the world by constantly reviewing its organization and functions. The prescription for reform is already shown in the Millennium Declaration. In order to achieve the goals contained in the Declaration and build a more peaceful, prosperous and just world, every Member State should renew its determination to achieve reform in the United Nations and take actions toward that end. Japan will make its utmost efforts to ensure that the United Nations is able to meet the challenges of the twenty- first century. ﻿I wish at the outset to pay tribute to the remarkable work of the Secretary-General, who, through his outstanding personal qualities and sense of dialogue, gives our Organization unparalleled influence. I congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- seventh session. I also congratulate Switzerland on its admission to our Organization, and Timor-Leste on its forthcoming admission. A year ago, to our stunned horror, New York and Washington were struck in unprecedented attacks. From now on no one now can disregard the dark side of the world: international terrorism that combines archaism with technology, and shifting underground 28 criminal networks with a growing risk of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. These formidable opponents insinuate themselves into the heart of the world's complexity. They play on frustrations and resentment, hatred and fears. They foil our plans; they know how to find weak spots and turn our weapons against us. No, the world is definitely not suffering from an excess of power. To the contrary, it is suddenly discovering its extreme vulnerability. Faced with these threats, the temptation to forge blindly ahead could emerge. That would be a serious mistake. Force cannot be the sole response to these elusive adversaries that are constantly changing. The example of Afghanistan shows this. Mobilizing the international community enabled us to overthrow a retrograde totalitarian regime that harboured and supported the Al Qaeda network and dealt a harsh blow to terrorist infrastructures. That was necessary, but it is not enough. We must now rebuild; we must help the Afghan people, maintain our efforts over the long term, and continue our work to bring about stability and democracy, but also to dismantle the drug economy and the trafficking it fuels. The fact that force alone is often futile is one of the characteristics of our age. We live in a world that is interdependent, where cause and effect may be distant, indirect and unpredictable. Let us take care that our interventions do not give rise to new frustrations, produce new imbalances or spark fires that we cannot put out. The case of Iraq is typical of this new situation. It is a country that has defied the authority of the Security Council and flouted international law for years. It is a regime that poses a grave threat to security, particularly the security of the peoples of its region, because of the risk of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Its conduct is the direct cause of the great suffering endured by its people. Is the international community concerned? Of course it is. Can it continue to tolerate this situation? Definitely not. Should it act? Obviously: the status quo cannot go on. France's determination to obtain compliance with the law is absolute. We must act, but we must do so effectively. We must act, but without risking results opposite to those we seek. We must take care not to exacerbate a situation that is already very disturbing. We must act, but there are many traps. Intervention that is politically or legally ill-defined or poorly mounted would not garner the broad support necessary; it might galvanize public opinion in the region against it, and the regime in Baghdad, which is isolated now, could benefit; lastly, it might exacerbate tension in the Middle East and beyond at a time when we should, on the contrary, redouble our efforts to return to the path of dialogue and peace. How are these traps to be avoided? How are we to succeed? There is only one way, and it is demanding. It is the path of responsibility collective responsibility. The world now is one of interdependence. Its stability concerns us all. All of us must contribute to it. The necessary measures must be adopted by the international community after in-depth and transparent consideration. Any temptation to engage in unilateral preventive action would be dangerous. We must take care to avoid any suspicion of bias or injustice. This is the only way to ensure that any action to enforce law and restore security does not add to insecurity. That is the best guarantee of effectiveness. That is why, in the case of Iraq, France advocates a dÈmarche made completely legitimate by collective deliberation. It requires two successive steps. First, we must together reaffirm the need for United Nations inspectors to return and demand that Iraq comply at last with its obligations under the Security Council decisions taken since 1991, and do so according to a definite timetable. That is the objective of the international community. It is also in Iraq's interest. If Baghdad persists in its refusal to allow the inspectors to return unconditionally, then there must be consequences. The Security Council should then decide on the measures to be taken without excluding any option. Responsibilities would be clarified. The world must be able to act. But it must also be coherent and effective, in a sustained way. That is today the real challenge to our values, and to our democracies. I recently travelled to the Middle East, the Balkans and Afghanistan. I realized the strength of the aspirations and hopes for peace. But I also saw how the efforts and energies of various parties need to be united and centred on a collective ambition. No Power can today assume sole responsibility for world equilibrium. The world aspires to be structured around poles of stability and progress. In addition to the United States, the European Union is 29 naturally destined to form one such pole, along with Russia, China, Japan and India, among others. In future each actor must make its contribution to the effort. It is a common project that we must build. That is the ambition that inspires the European Union, and France's action within it. The Union affirms its role on the world stage in the service of peace and prosperity. It is acquiring the appropriate diplomatic and defence instruments. With a view to major enlargement, the Union is also committed to genuinely re-making its design. That is the purpose of the Convention on the Future of Europe, guided by the principles of democracy and effectiveness for a future Europe. In that way, the Union will contribute to the stability of the continent and beyond. Finally, the European model reconciles in a unique way the requirements of social cohesion and economic performance to further a common plan, while respecting the diversity of all. For all those reasons, I am convinced that Europe's voice offers elements for addressing the major challenges of our time. Today, power in all its aspects must be shared. It is essential to listen to diverse approaches and points of view. A dialogue among cultures is essential. Only this will enable us to understand the main issues today by taking into account the history and aspirations of every people and every country. Only this can prevent us from having too narrow a conception of the world based on ignorance and on fear of the other. Only this can guide us in putting humankind back at the centre of our concerns and at the heart of our action and our shared commitment. Sharing means responding to the requirement of solidarity. Extreme poverty, famine, epidemics and financial crises are factors contributing to disorder and fomenting instability. Terrorism feeds on these things. Generosity must be the corollary of power. It is our political and moral duty. It is also in our own interest. Accordingly, France has pledged to augment its development assistance, which will increase by 50 per cent over the next five years. Owing to its geographic proximity and historical and cultural ties, my country has a deep friendship for Africa. It feels a special responsibility. That continent, more than others, needs the solidarity of the international community in the difficult trials it is experiencing: the too-numerous conflicts that persist; the return of the spectre of famine; the economic difficulties; and the tragedy of AIDS, which today strikes nearly 30 million Africans. Yet Africa is rich in potential, rich in the enthusiasm of its young people and in the energy of its civil society, and rich in memory, in tradition and in a treasury of wisdom from which we all have much to learn. Important efforts are under way today to advance human rights, democracy, the fight against corruption, and favourable economic and social policies for strong and balanced growth. The establishment of the New Partnership for Africa's Development attests to the continent's willingness to take charge of its development, in the context of a renewed partnership with the industrialized countries. Let us recognize and support those efforts. In particular, we must help Africa to move forward on the path of conflict resolution in Sierra Leone, Liberia, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and the Sudan. Those tragedies concern us all, because today there are no more localized crises. Instability spreads. The international community must mobilize. In the Great Lakes region, the agreements signed at Lusaka, Pretoria and Luanda must be implemented. They must lead to the withdrawal of all foreign troops present in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to the disarmament of foreign armed groups, to reconciliation and to a return to peace. With regard to Western Sahara, it is good that the Security Council, in its most recent resolution, resolution 1429 (2002), gave Mr. James Baker the time to work to bring the parties closer together. That time must be used to make progress. We must stay engaged in the Balkans, where the progress made this year must be consolidated in Kosovo, in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Linking the Balkans to Europe through the rule of law and democracy is, more than ever before, our common aspiration. In the Middle East, we must emerge from the impasse and restore hope. The situation will worsen as long as the parties remain prisoners to the logic of violence. There is urgency to act. The Palestinian Authority must use all available means to prevent and curb terrorist actions. With a view to the creation of an independent, viable and democratic Palestinian State, 30 based on the 1967 borders, it must pursue its reforms, particularly in the institutional context. For its part, the State of Israel, while it legitimately wishes to defend itself against terrorism, must do so with respect for international law. The security imperative cannot by itself take the place of policy. Settlement-building must cease, and the Israeli armed forces must withdraw from the occupied territories, as demanded by the Security Council. Measures must be taken quickly to improve the now alarming humanitarian and social situation of the Palestinian people. On the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002) and the principle of land for peace which all the Arab countries, meeting in Beirut, agreed to recognize at the initiative of Saudi Arabia the political process must be relaunched with the aid of the `quartet'. We support the convening of an international conference at an early date. The objective must be a just, comprehensive and lasting peace; a peace based on the coexistence of two States within secure and recognized borders, guaranteeing security for the Israelis and offering the Palestinians a normal life with dignity; a peace based on a comprehensive settlement of the regional conflict between Israel and its neighbours. The attention that we pay to regional crises must not distract us from the responsibility that we must assume in the face of global challenges. The United Nations is playing its full role in the fight against terrorism. Let us do likewise in the other great struggles of our time. Let us fight tirelessly against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. The President of the French Republic has proposed that the Security Council meet at the highest level in 2003, during the General Assembly, with a double mandate: to review non-proliferation policy and to give it a new impetus. Let us mobilize all actors for sustainable development in a renewed partnership, in conformity with the commitments made at Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg. The time has come to strengthen concrete cooperation to permit access by all to basic resources such as water and energy, to basic social services such as education and health, and to food security. Let us also call for the ratification and full implementation of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change. Let us establish true global governance of sustainable development and give it the necessary coherence. France proposes the creation of an economic and social security council and of a world environmental organization to give all countries especially those of the South the possibility of making their voices heard on those issues. Finally, let us fully exercise our responsibility to defend and promote human rights. These are universal. Progress, often fragile, must be encouraged. Violations, often so numerous, must be punished. Let us strengthen the authority and the universality of the International Criminal Court to enable it to ensure that the most serious crimes at the international level do not go unpunished. This new tool is essential to build a more just and democratic world where the principle of responsibility is fully respected. Through ambitious conventions, let us provide better protection, as we did for children, for the disabled and for the victims of forced disappearance and torture. Let us fight against corruption. Let us commit ourselves to the negotiation of a universal convention against human cloning for reproductive purposes, as proposed by France and Germany. Yes, the principle of collective responsibility is at the heart of the international system. It is at the heart of United Nations action. In order to play its full role, the Organization must pursue its reforms. In particular, we must increase the representativity of the Security Council by enlarging both categories of membership. France supports the aspirations of Germany, Japan and India in particular. The United Nations is the keystone of the world order. The generous and strong ideas that presided over its birth, just after a world conflict that pushed the limits of barbarism to the unspeakable, retain all their currency. The contemporary world is complex, confusing and unpredictable. It is urgent that we forge among nations a new alliance, a community of destiny. That is our future; that is our chance. Through our actions, let us respond to the expectations of the world's peoples.﻿First of all, I should like to wish you every success, Mr. President, in your responsible office. We are delighted that you, a representative of our Czech neighbours, will preside over the General Assembly this year. I also express my sincere thanks to the outgoing President. I endorse the statement of the Danish presidency of the European Union. One year ago, the world was shaken by the terror of 11 September, which was disdainful of human life. Civilian aircraft were transformed into guided missiles whose deployment had been planned without any regard for human life. The devastating consequences destroyed families, shattered hopes and tore people apart, regardless of their age, gender or religious affiliation. Three days ago, we remembered the victims in a moving ceremony here in New York. We have not forgotten the images of 11 September; we have not recovered from the shock. Our solidarity with the United States is unbroken. We understand our American friends. Just like them, we are not prepared to live under the sword of Damocles that terrorism represents. The murderous attack on the people and the Administration of the United States was also an attack on all open societies. Countless States mourn their countrymen among the thousands of World Trade Center victims. The attack could have struck any open society, but the terrorists consciously chose the United States as a symbol of freedom and democracy. We know that the new totalitarian challenge is also directed at us all. Since 11 September 2001, the community of nations has had to look at the question of peace and security at the dawn of the twenty-first century from a whole new angle. We will not be able to negotiate with terrorists like Osama bin Laden. His aim is to kill as many innocent people as possible, thus creating the maximum degree of terror and fear. If the terrorists succeed in acquiring weapons that are yet more horrific, they will deploy them against us all without hesitation. Therefore, we must work together in the international coalition against terrorism to overcome and destroy that international terrorist network. The highly dangerous combination of religious hatred, smouldering regional conflicts, terrorist attacks and the danger of the deployment of weapons of mass destruction must be prevented at any price. But, above all else, we must not forget: on the one hand, terrorism must be fought resolutely by the military and police; on the other, we need to resolve the political and social conflicts quite rightly emphasized in the Millennium Declaration, as they form the breeding ground for the emergence of terrorism. Opting for one approach and neglecting the other risks failure. Our common goal is for the people in our countries to be able to live in safety and freedom, and without want. To achieve that, we need a system of global cooperative security that, unlike the former bipolarity of the cold war, includes all levels of global policy relevant to security: the relations among great 17 Powers and their alliances as well as the potential danger of regional crises and the threat posed by asymmetrical conflicts. For one thing is clearer than ever after 11 September: terrorism threatens world peace just as much as civil war and regional conflicts. Such a system, therefore, must not be toothless, but rather must function in all three fields through reliable verification systems and enforceable sanctions mechanisms. I am convinced that developing such a comprehensive system of global cooperative security will be our central political task for the twenty-first century. This problem can be solved only through multilateralism — that is, if nations work together. Terrorism does not stop at national borders, and shaping globalization is a task that Governments can no longer tackle alone. Thus, the United Nations has a major role to play in developing this security system; it is the most important forum for establishing global rules. No other organization has comparable legitimacy and credibility. Decisively strengthening its ability to act by continuing the reform path of the Secretary- General is, therefore, a central focus of German foreign policy. The developments in Iraq fill us with grave concern. Saddam Hussein's regime is a brutal dictatorship. Under his leadership, Iraq has attacked its neighbours Iran and Kuwait, has fired missiles at Israel and has used poison gas against Iran and against its own Kurdish population. The regime is horrendous for the Iraqi people and a risk to the region. For that reason, an effective containment policy and reliable military control of the no-fly zones have been implemented and a strict sanctions regime against Iraq has been introduced since the Gulf War. The regime in Baghdad must not own or produce the means for mass destruction or the systems to deliver them. Despite binding demands from the Security Council, Saddam Hussein refuses to provide credible and verifiable answers to the pressing questions posed by the community of nations regarding his weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, the United Nations not only must maintain the pressure on the Iraqi Government but also must intensify it. We welcome the fact that President Bush, in his most recent speech, turned towards the Security Council. Even if it becomes very difficult, we must do everything possible to find a diplomatic solution. The Security Council and Member States must make it unequivocally clear to Baghdad that the unrestricted and unconditional re-admission of the weapons inspectors is the only way to avert a great tragedy for Iraq and the entire region. The Iraqi Government must implement all relevant Security Council resolutions in their entirety and without delay. We do not, however, want any automatism leading to the use of military force. The fight against international terrorism remains perilous. We have not yet managed to fully stabilize Afghanistan. Explosive regional conflicts in Kashmir, the Middle East and the Caucasus must be resolved or at least effectively contained. Certain central questions arise for us. Have all economic and political means of pressure been truly exhausted? What consequences would military intervention have? What would it mean for regional stability? What effect would it have on the Middle East conflict? Are there new, concrete findings and facts? Does the situation as assessed justify the taking of a great risk, namely, taking responsibility for peace and stability in the entire region for years or even decades to come? Would such action gain the consent of the Arab neighbours? What consequences would it have for the continuation of the global coalition against terrorism? In the face of these open questions, we feel deep scepticism with regard to military action and thus hold to our approach. I would like to pose the further question of whether a peaceful solution to the question of the Middle East could not contribute considerably more to the establishment of regional stability, to the successful fight against terrorism and to the effective control and disarmament of weapons of mass destruction. In that way, would the regime in Baghdad not be isolated much more effectively, thus generating political pressure for change? Would this cooperative approach to finding a new order for the region not be a more promising way to bring democracy to the Middle East — one that would be supported by the regional Powers? Nowhere is the connection between terrorism and regional conflict more obvious than in the Near and Middle East. The breakthrough to peace is therefore of paramount importance in that region of the world. The consensus among the international community of nations on the Middle East question is now greater than 18 ever. We must all pull together to achieve the goal envisaged by President Bush for 2005, that of two States, Israel and a democratic Palestine, living as neighbours within secure and recognized borders. The European Union has devised a road map to achieve that goal. An early conference on the Middle East could help to build bridges and accelerate the process. Together with our European Union partners, we are ready to make a considerable contribution in that respect. A comprehensive peace in the Middle East must also include Lebanon and Syria. Saudi Arabia's significant initiative contains the assurance that the Arab world would then also be ready to fully normalize its relations with Israel. Without a just and lasting solution to regional conflicts, we will not be able to eliminate the recruitment base for terrorists and thus successfully counter the asymmetrical threat. Afghanistan is an obvious example here. The Taliban system has collapsed there and the Al Qaeda network has largely been destroyed. We are still a long way from being able to call the situation in the country stable and secure, but progress can be noted. The implementation of the provisions of the Bonn Conference agreement began with the formation of a legitimate Interim Administration. The process that was launched on the Petersberg was taken to the next level with the convening in June of the emergency loya jirga. For the first time in years, the Afghan people have the chance to lead a life of dignity based on self-determination. The people of Afghanistan will only grow in courage, however, when they see and feel that the international community is also standing by its pledges for the reconstruction of their country. The commitments of the donor countries must materialize in the form of concrete projects. A system of global cooperative security must be based on a comprehensive security concept. This must embrace not only military security but also the economy, human rights, democracy and culture. “To achieve a safer world, we must create a better world”: that is how President Bush summed up the situation in his impressive speech to the German Bundestag last May. Shaping cooperative global security therefore also means shaping a new global economic order. Account must be taken of the needs of all — the developing and the developed world alike. Resources must be more fairly distributed and poorer countries must be able to participate in international trade and take advantage of the opportunities of globalization. This will necessitate free market access for all, as well as the realization of economic and political freedoms and a just and reliable legal framework. We must not close our eyes to the problems of Africa, in particular. The food situation in the South of the continent is a particular source of concern. Countless people are going hungry and comprehensive assistance is needed there. In Zimbabwe, however, the former granary of Africa, a wholly irresponsible policy is the reason for the difficult situation. In Zimbabwe, hunger is caused principally not by failed harvests or droughts but by self-destructive governance — a policy of keeping a grip on power through the suffering of the people. Such a policy relies upon the fact that the international community's humanitarian conscience and readiness to assume responsibility will reduce the consequences. We must hold this policy up against the benchmarks defined by Africa itself in the framework of the New Partnership for Africa's Development. Climate and energy policy is a key component of the new global economic order. The Kyoto Protocol can be seen as a milestone in global climate protection. I am delighted that several countries have recently announced plans to ratify the Protocol, and hope that this will happen as soon as possible so that it can enter into force. In the long term, a sensible energy policy — and that means, above all, the promotion of renewable energy sources and economical energy consumption — is the best solution to the climate problem. Work must therefore start today. Let us not forget that difficult economic and ecological problems, with their social and humanitarian repercussions, will increasingly endanger stability and security too. The protection of human rights must be one of the pillars of a global security system. All efforts to secure peace will fail if human rights are not protected and made a reality. We need a binding global set of values to prevent and overcome conflicts that emerge through inequality, injustice and the denial of freedom. Here, too, States are called upon to play a decisive and active role. Moreover, we must be careful today to ensure that basic human rights are not annulled under the pretext of combating terrorism. No one has the right to an “anti-terrorism bonus”. 19 Cooperative global security will have to measure up to the binding legal framework in which it is embedded. It is imperative for the globalization process to be flanked by a growing set of international rules, because international law and the rule of law constitute the indispensable foundations for peaceful and ordered coexistence. That is why the establishment of the International Criminal Court is so important to us. Its Statute entered into force on 1 July; Germany, along with all the other members of the European Union, is among the 79 States to have ratified it. The Assembly of States Parties gave the green light this week to the establishment of the Court. Next spring we will celebrate its opening in The Hague. The International Criminal Court will start work as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible. But it must not be weakened in its work from the outset. My country is applying for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2003-2004. Germany wants to play an active role in developing the international security system within the United Nations along the lines that I have outlined. I would like to ask all members for their vote in the election on 27 September. ﻿On behalf of Prime Minister Perry G. Christie, the Government and the people of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, I congratulate you most warmly, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. The Bahamas is confident that this session will be steered to a fruitful conclusion under your able guidance. You and the other members of your equally competent Bureau may be assured of the full support of the Bahamas in the performance of your duties. I take this opportunity also to congratulate your predecessor from the Republic of Korea for his skilful leadership during the fifty-sixth session. The right to self-determination and the full, fair and unhindered expression of the will of the people are principles held in the highest esteem by the Bahamas. The Bahamas looks forward to welcoming the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste to the United Nations when it takes its place in the Assembly in just a few weeks. The Bahamas is also pleased to welcome Switzerland to this family of nations. The world has agreed that the United Nations is a place where nations large and small are equal, where disputes of an international character may be resolved peacefully, and where the use of force is supported only in accordance with the United Nations Charter. The Bahamas and all other nations represented here have signed on to this contract, a contract that, in our view, is inviolate and must be honoured. This should not be a matter of convenience and, in our view, applies to all nations, large and small. Today, I reaffirm the commitment of the Bahamas to the United Nations Charter and to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Government and the people of the Bahamas believe in the United Nations, and will continue to support it and to uphold the founding principles on which its effectiveness and success depends. We reaffirm our commitment to the rule of law, and an abiding respect for the right to self- determination, the sovereignty of nations and the right of people everywhere to expect that their Government, freely and democratically elected, will protect their rights. We urge world leaders to accept that the freely expressed will of the people is their sole claim to legitimacy and that the will of the people should not be subverted by any means. We reject parochialism as a justification for obfuscating the true intent and will of a people as expressed through the ballot box. The Government of the Bahamas believes in good governance at all levels as a fundamental human right. As an adjunct to that right, we have committed ourselves to deepening our long-standing democratic tradition. General elections are not the end of the story. The citizen must continue to have a role in the governance of the country. Civil society must be actively encouraged to develop and engage in the affairs of the country. The Bahamas is committed to consulting its people on all matters of national importance. This becomes critical as our country examines its role and fulfils its obligations to other Member States on the bilateral and multilateral levels. The first anniversary of the 11 September attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon, near Washington, D.C., and the tragedy in Pennsylvania, were commemorated just a few days ago. On that occasion, the Bahamas reiterated its condemnation of those acts as attacks on our values and on our civilization. Such acts must not go unpunished. We therefore support measures to bring the guilty to justice and to prevent similar attacks in all their forms and manifestations. We are resolute in our views on this. We pause to remember the families and friends in countries around the world who lost loved ones in those attacks. In our own country we are seeking to recover from the knock-on effects of the unemployment the attacks caused. We are taking steps to rebuild our economy. We have initiated changes to our domestic law and we have, in the United Nations, the Commonwealth and the Organization of American States, become parties to international conventions to bolster our capacity to play our necessary role in the fight against these attacks on our way of life. We will continue to give our full support to international efforts to eliminate this scourge. At the same time, we are 29 keen to ensure that in this fight the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens are not eroded. The Bahamas believes that there is no better legacy that we can leave to the generations to come than an Earth that is safe and secure and that can sustain life. We firmly believe that there can be development without harm to the environment. We emphasized that point at the World Summit on Sustainable Development. The environment is not only the biological medium that supports the life of the people of the Bahamas, but it is also the central reason for our economic success. The Government has therefore given high priority to preserving and protecting the environment, and has taken practical steps to do so. We reiterate our concern expressed at the Summit about the threat posed to small island developing States by all manifestations of climate change, including the rise in sea levels. We have repeatedly expressed our grave concern to some of our industrialized partners about the trans-shipment of nuclear waste through the Caribbean and about the disastrous effects it might have on the economies of the Bahamas and the Caribbean. Tourism is our primary industry. An accident involving spent nuclear fuel will almost certainly destroy it. We do not accept that, because the risk of accidents is remote, the transhipment of nuclear waste should be allowed to continue. We make the assertion today and ask for the transhipment to cease. The Bahamas joins in urging the early ratification and implementation of the Kyoto Protocol and in reaffirming its commitment to sustainable development and to the Political Declaration and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development. The international community faces a broad range of political, economic, social and cultural issues. We have made inroads, but not sufficient to stem the spiral of persistence of poverty, hunger, human rights abuses, crime and diseases, particularly HIV/AIDS, or to address the vulnerability of small island developing States. The Bahamas is particularly concerned about HIV/AIDS and the slow progress in fighting the disease. The critical question on HIV/AIDS and all the other issues is: Where do we go from here? This body has made important commitments to the world. There are reviews, platforms and programmes of action. Our respective publics may be forgiven for their cynicism and the criticism levelled that the United Nations is a talking shop. Our view, however, is that it is better to talk than fight. Talking is, in fact, a form of action and there is no doubt that, with regard to HIVAIDS, discussion of the problem is central to the solutions. But our respective publics are looking for and require more immediate money and direct action. We must not be accused of inaction in the face of human suffering and adversity. We in the Bahamas have ably demonstrated our determination to play our part in these endeavours. We have been credited regionally and internationally for our model programmes, particularly in respect to our treatment of and efforts to control the spread of HIV/AIDS. We especially wish to thank the World Health Organization and the Pan American Health Organization, now celebrating its hundredth year, for the cooperation they have extended to the Bahamas and for their stellar work in the area of international health. We wish to commend the recent initiative to provide antiretroviral drugs to countries of the Caribbean to assist in the fight against HIV/AIDS. The Bahamas is concerned about the present global economic order. We raise questions about whether globalization and trade liberalization can indeed function as vehicles for progressive change in all countries large and small, developed and developing. We are committed to adapting to change, but at a pace and in a manner and form that are consistent with the way we live. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM), of which the Bahamas is a part, has taken up the challenges of ensuring a degree of stability among its member countries in the face of globalization. But the Bahamas believes that more can and must be done to assist our Caribbean Community to adapt to these externally imposed changes through equitable and sensitive trade policies and by reform of the international financial institutions and their lending practices. The Bahamas is the unwitting transit point for illegal activities: the smuggling of human beings and the illicit trade in narcotic drugs. The United States is the ultimate target. We are also suffering from increased violent crime from guns smuggled into our country from the United States. These guns are terrorizing our society. The Bahamas is working closely with the United States and other neighbouring countries to address these issues. There must be a 30 stronger effective action to reduce demand for drugs in the receiving country. There must be more effective action taken to stop the flow of illegal guns. The Bahamas has taken an active interest in the peace and stability of its sister CARICOM State, Haiti. Given our longstanding and developing relations with Haiti, positive steps taken to provide assistance and support for Haiti give us great hope. We are especially pleased with the efforts of the Inter-American Development Bank to work with the Government of Haiti to remove the existing financial hurdles that impede development efforts. We also welcome the recent Organization of American States (OAS) resolution and the announcement by the United States that it would contribute additional resources to the OAS special mission in Haiti. Illegal migration from Haiti causes a serious drain on the resources of the Bahamas. In addition to Haitian-Bahamian bilateral efforts to address this problem, the Bahamas believes that targeted international initiatives, with the cooperation of the Government of Haiti, represent the best hope for the Haitian people. Illegal immigration from Cuba also adversely affects us. The Bahamas continues to call for the normalization of relations between Cuba and the United States of America. We believe that such normalization would be central to solving that dimension of the migration problem. The Bahamas welcomes the entry into force of the Rome Statute on 1 July 2002 and the establishment of the International Criminal Court as a critical tool in the fight against violations of humanitarian international law and crimes against humanity. The conflict between Israel and the Palestinian people is a matter of concern. There should be peace between them. We support the peaceful settlement of this issue in accordance with all applicable United Nations resolutions. Every people deserves to have a State to call its own in peace and security. The Bahamas is concerned about developments in Africa. As part of the African diaspora, we wish to see Africa prosper, wars cease and equitable policies applied for all of the many and varied people of that continent. We support the reform of the Security Council. The Bahamas believes that the time has come for us to take the hard decisions and to agree to a practical programme of reform that takes fully into account the need for equitable membership and for a more democratic and transparent Council. The Bahamas is a small country whose voice, without the indispensable forum provided by the United Nations, would be lost or at best ignored. Here, irrespective of size and wealth, we have the ability to speak with equal voice and to vote with equal power on matters that affect the quality of our lives today and that will impact the type of world that we leave in place for future generations. This is why it is vitally important that we preserve and respect the integrity of this Organization. Member States are bound to come here for redress and should not act unilaterally outside the bounds of the Charter. The Bahamas reaffirms its commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations as enshrined in its Charter. I leave the Assembly with that commitment here today.﻿Let me begin by welcoming the United Nations new Member, Switzerland who has always been devoted to the cause of the United Nations and has now finally decided to join us. I look forward to welcoming East Timor as the newest Member of the Organization in the very near future. I would also like to pass on my congratulations to the newly elected President of the General Assembly. Today I would like to address three subjects of major concern for our globalizing world: the struggle against terrorism, human trafficking, and sustainable development. A year ago today, the whole world was still recoiling from the horrendous terrorist attacks in the United States. Immediately after the terror attacks, most States, including Estonia, and almost all international organizations expressed their solidarity with the United States. 12 We also associated ourselves with the North Atlantic Council's statement of 12 September 2001, which invoked article 5 of the Washington Treaty, as well as with relevant European Union statements and undertakings. Estonia is actively participating in the international coalition to combat terrorism. We have contributed a search and rescue team to Operation Enduring Freedom under United States leadership. Our highly trained explosives detection dog team is presently serving in Afghanistan alongside the forces of the other countries, which are helping to restore order in that war-torn land. We appreciate the noteworthy role of the United Nations and its Security Council in the universal campaign against terrorism. We fully recognize the importance of preventive measures and further standard-setting in this field. To date, not a single crime that could be classified as terrorism has been committed in Estonia. However, let me assure you that Estonia will continue to make all efforts necessary to fulfil its role in this ongoing quest for comprehensive international security. Indeed, I can announce for the record that Estonia has ratified all the relevant United Nations conventions and has promptly presented reports to the appropriate parties about the implementation of the various Security Council resolutions. We are confident that truly joint efforts, which make use of the input of all States, will eventually enable the international community to make remarkable progress in the global struggle against terrorism. In this regard, cooperation to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is of particular significance, since sooner or later, terrorists might actually gain access to these ghastly tools of doom. Today, the United Nations faces the challenge of upholding its authority. For the sake of our future, and the prestige and relevancy of the United Nations, it is essential that the United Nations does not shy away from reacting effectively and decisively when confronted with real and formidable dangers. Full and unconditional implementation of Security Council resolutions is obligatory for all Members, just as is the effective enforcement of these resolutions. Therefore, we value highly the decisiveness of the international community to implement the resolutions dealing with Iraq. Estonia supports the Secretary-General's further efforts to obtain Iraq's compliance with the Security Council resolutions. The return of the United Nations weapons inspectors to Iraq is just a beginning. Further acts will have to follow. The possible results of international indecisiveness and appeasement are well illustrated by the history of the League of Nations, which disappeared from the international arena, just as did some of its member States, including my homeland, Estonia. The result was an international conflagration that left a large part of the civilized world in ruins, the very ruins upon which the United Nations Organization was founded. This taught us all a very essential lesson — inaction can often be much more disastrous than action. Another important issue which deserves to be touched upon here is human trafficking, in particular trafficking in women. The Estonian Government recently acceded to the three Protocols additional to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, including the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children. In June 2001, at the Women and Democracy Conference in Lithuania, the Nordic and Baltic Ministers for Gender Equality decided to launch a joint Nordic-Baltic information campaign against trafficking in women. The aim of the campaign, which will continue at least until the beginning of 2003, is to turn the general public's attention to the problems of prostitution and trafficking in people and to initiate public discussion about the problems surrounding the issue of trafficking in women. The joint campaign is being carried out simultaneously in the eight Nordic and Baltic countries, with all relevant institutions concentrating, throughout this year, on the matter of how best to combat this problem. We hope that we will soon have some concrete proposals for drafting amendments to appropriate national legislation. The problem of trafficking in women, however, is part of a broader series of issues relating to women, including their position in society, their participation in the decision-making process and so on. In order to discuss all of these topics in depth and to highlight 13 women's role in democratic societies, Estonia will host, in February 2003, a major international conference on women and democracy. I sincerely hope that that conference will help to further the cause of women's rights. Another crucial issue on the global agenda, and the last topic that I wish to speak about, is development cooperation and sustainable development. Having participated in the Monterrey discussions, and in the wake of the Johannesburg Conference, I would like to emphasize that the most important factor for sustained and sustainable development is a clear national goal and a road map for achieving it. Estonia is in the process of drafting a special sustainable development strategy, a process involving the cooperation of both civil society and the private sector. Estonia acknowledges the problem of environmental deterioration, and we have taken action to tackle it. Estonia has ratified the Kyoto Protocol — among many other international and regional agreements concerning the environment — and we will do our best to fully implement the decisions made in Johannesburg. Since the successful implementation of recent international decisions depends largely on the concerted action of the various parties, communication and access to information are becoming key issues. Bridging the digital divide between the haves and the have-nots is essential if we want all countries to benefit equally from globalization. Thanks to our rapid rate of progress, Estonia has been able to support development in various other countries. The creation of an e-governance academy in Estonia — a cooperative effort involving the Estonian Government, the United Nations Development Programme and the Open Society Institute — is a significant step towards bridging the digital gap with the countries of the Caucasus and Central Asia. The academy will also be open to other interested regions. The academy will draw on the experiences gained in various environments, thereby providing broad knowledge that will enable participants to choose or create the best solution for their particular situation. Among other things, this project demonstrates the synergy that can be created from cooperation between Governments, international organizations and non- governmental organizations. Today I have spoken about some of the issues on the global agenda, all of which have been discussed at length at recent international meetings and conferences. Those discussions provided us with useful signposts, agreements and decisions. Now it is time to implement them.  ﻿I have the honour to deliver the statement of the Government of Saudi Arabia on behalf of His Royal Highness the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It gives me great pleasure at the outset of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly to convey to Mr. Kavan personally and to his friendly country, the Czech Republic, our sincerest congratulations on his election to the important position of President of the Assembly. We are confident that he will preside with great skill and efficiency over our deliberations. I wish to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, who presided over the last session with wisdom and experience and deserves our gratitude and appreciation. I also wish to take this opportunity to express our thanks and appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his tireless efforts to achieve peace and consolidate security throughout the world and for his persistent efforts to strengthen the Organization's role and enhance its efficiency. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia believes that the recent admission of Switzerland to membership of this Organization will enrich the United Nations and undoubtedly enhance its role, given that country's remarkable contributions to and experience in international cooperation. Our current session coincides with the first anniversary of the horrendous disaster that befell the United States of America as a result of a most despicable act of terrorism that led to the death of thousands of innocent lives, with enormous material losses and immeasurable harm from which we are all still suffering. The pain and suffering of the American people over the loss of their relatives and loved ones as a result of this cowardly act was our loss, too, as we witnessed those events in a state of total shock and dismay. We felt nothing but absolute condemnation for those who committed that utterly criminal and barbaric act. I therefore convey our sincerest condolences and heartfelt sympathies to the President of the United States, to the families of the victims and to the American people. I assure them that this horrible experience can only strengthen what we already know about the inner strength and pride of the American people. Those feelings of fortitude and resolve, as well as their determination to confront this challenge and to move on with resolve, guided by the principles and values of the founding fathers of their great nation, were unmistakable when we, along with the American 23 people and President, commemorated the first anniversary of the tragedy. It was most overwhelmingly painful for us to see a number of our young people, who were in a position to contribute beneficially to the development and well- being of their own country, fall victim to those who led them astray as they embarked on a road that ended tragically. Those young men committed a grave offense against their country and their religion, which totally and utterly forbids the crime they committed. May I be permitted here to quote from the letter sent to United States President George W. Bush by His Royal Highness Crown Prince Abdullah, in describing those young men in a most unambiguous and meaningful manner: “We in Saudi Arabia felt especially acute pain at the realization that a number of young Saudi citizens had been enticed and deluded and their reasoning subverted to the degree of denying the tolerance that their religion embraced and turning their backs on their homeland, which has always stood for understanding and moderation. They allowed themselves to be used as a tool to do great damage to Islam, a religion they espoused, and to all Muslims. “I would like to make it very clear that real Muslims throughout the world will never allow a minority of defiant extremists to speak in the name of Islam and distort its spirit of tolerance. “Your friends in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia denounced and condemned the attacks of 11 September as strongly as the American people did. Like them, we are convinced that nothing can ever justify the shedding of innocent blood or the taking of lives and the terrorizing of people, regardless of cause or motive. Therefore, we do not simply reiterate our sincere condolences to the victims' relatives; we also assure all of our continued will and determination to do all we can to combat that malignant evil and uproot it from our world. My country will maintain its firm resolve to combat terrorism unilaterally and jointly with the international coalition. We shall pursue the war against terrorism relentlessly. Our drive emanates from our firm conviction that terrorism is a pernicious disease that poses a lethal threat to every human society and every effort must be made to confront and defeat it.” Saudi Arabia's position regarding terrorism has always been very clear, dispassionate and responsible. That is logical since our country was honoured by God to be the custodian of the Muslims' holiest sites, and it is also the birthplace of the heavenly message of Islam. Thus, we want to uphold the principles and teachings of the Islamic faith. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia reaffirms its total support for all Security Council resolutions related to the question of terrorism. It has been cooperating fully with the international community in implementing those resolutions, with the aim of combating terrorism. Moreover, Saudi Arabia has taken the necessary steps to close any gaps in regulations related to charitable fundraising that might be exploited for illegal purposes. The competent authorities in Saudi Arabia have put in place all the necessary measures to implement Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Moreover, the Government of Saudi Arabia has lent its support to every international effort, within the framework of the Security Council, to crack down on terrorism by all means approved by the international community. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which has itself suffered from terrorist acts, has enacted regulations that mete out punishment to the perpetrators of terrorist acts. Moreover, it has made the fight against terrorism part of its basic school curricula. At the regional level, Saudi Arabia was one of the first countries to sign the Pan-Arab Convention for the Suppression of Terrorism, adopted by the League of Arab States in 1998, and it is also a signatory to the Convention of the Organization of the Islamic Conference on Combating International Terrorism. At the international level, Saudi Arabia is a party to 10 conventions and agreements that deal with various forms of terrorism. We sincerely look to the United Nations, which represents all countries of the world, to make the international effort to combat terrorism a truly global one, without bias or discrimination, with the primary goal of serving all members of the international community and protecting them from the evils of terrorism, including State- supported terrorism. Confronting terrorism, international cooperation in tracking down terrorist organizations and the exploration of all ways and means to eradicate it 24 represent important steps towards eliminating that dangerous phenomenon. However, the international effort against terrorism, regardless of its effectiveness, will not be capable of totally eradicating that phenomenon unless it addresses its underlying causes, including political, economic and social circumstances that become ground for extremism, violence and terrorism. The decision to eradicate terrorism has been taken, without hesitation or vacillation. However, if our true objective is to eradicate the possibility of its recurrence, then attention must be paid to the political, economic and social conditions that, in many instances, create grounds for extremism, especially when those conditions reach serious proportions and the possibility for peaceful change and development does not exist. For example, the deteriorating conditions of oppressed people, whether they suffer injustice and oppression or are subject to foreign occupation, and the international community's inability, for one reason or another, to find just solutions to those problems will ultimately lead to a situation in which opportunity is created for people with evil intentions to take advantage of naïve young men who are led to believe that violence and terrorism are the only and ideal means for correcting the injustice that afflict them. Thirty-five years have passed since the Palestinian people came under the suffocating Israeli occupation. The cycle of violence in the occupied Palestinian territories will never end unless the legitimate rights of the Palestinians are respected. Those rights have been acknowledged by the international community as a whole and are enshrined in many United Nations resolutions and have become legally binding through various international agreements signed by consecutive Israeli Governments with the Palestinian side. The obligations contained in those agreements have been completely ignored by the Israelis, whether they relate to the continuation of the occupation or the treatment of the Palestinian people and their legitimate leadership. The policy of siege, starvation, military incursions, the destruction of property and the desecration of holy places totally contravenes not only signed agreements, but also international law and humanitarian norms. Furthermore, the Government of Ariel Sharon is marginalizing the Palestinian Authority, established under the Oslo Accords, isolating the Palestinian territories and destroying their infrastructure. In addition, with nothing left to destroy, recently Sharon has implemented a policy not only of imprisoning, but also of assassinating, members of the Palestinian leadership. He recently and blatantly declared that Israel is no longer bound by any agreement signed with the Palestinians, including the Oslo Accords. The situation in the occupied Palestinian territories will undoubtedly lead to a humanitarian disaster resulting from the economic siege, the unchecked spread of disease and the virtual collapse of public health and security forces. The most important fact to be recalled by all, particularly the Israeli people, is that the goal of security promised by the current Israeli Government will never materialize. That is due directly to the policies and practices of that Government, which chose to ignore dialogue and negotiations and opted for oppression and violence as a means of resolving the Palestinian problem. President Bush's statement to the Assembly concerning the difficulty of attaining peace between the Palestinians and Israelis, without providing the freedom necessary for both, conforms with the current situation in the occupied territories, which continue to face a cycle of violence and suffering because one side, namely the Palestinians, has been denied its right to freedom and independence. Therefore, the exit point of that dilemma is Israel's acknowledgement of the importance of the existence of a Palestinian State established on a basis of constitutional legality and capable of conducting negotiations and resolving pending problems that cannot be ignored or bypassed. That is the action that must be taken if we truly intend to put an end to the crisis in the occupied territories, the price of which is being paid by both Palestinians and Israelis. We believe that an independent Palestinian State, based on a constitution binding on all Palestinians, and specifying the basis and rules governing their relations with Israel, will ultimately constitute a guarantee not only for the Palestinians, but also for the Israelis themselves, because the Israeli side will have the assurance of dealing with a legitimate entity with clear characteristics, structures and institutions. Their future 25 relations will determine their responsibilities. To achieve this goal, the international community must move to end the humanitarian catastrophe and suffering faced by the Palestinian people. There is also a dire need to halt the violence raging in the area through a practical and dispassionate treatment of the security situation. That clearly means that the international community must hold the Israeli Government accountable to the same level of security obligations that is required of the Palestinian Authority. To limit the security obligations to the Palestinian side alone is neither practical nor a means of solving the problem. It is incumbent on all of us to work together to alleviate the suffering of the Palestinians and to take the necessary practical steps to put the Palestinian problem on the path to the desired settlement. As far as the comprehensive settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict is concerned, we see in the Arab peace initiative adopted at the Beirut Arab Summit a historic move that contains all the requirements for a just and permanent peace in the Middle East based on resolutions of international legitimacy and supported by all Arab States. It would lead to Israel's full withdrawal from the occupied Arab territories and to normalization of Arab relations with Israel. There is another problem that has reached crisis proportions and has become a source of grave danger to the security and stability of the Middle East: the issue of Iraq and its implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. President Bush mentioned in his speech before the General Assembly the need to refer this matter to the Security Council in order to have the appropriate resolutions adopted. That represents a new and positive approach that we view with satisfaction. Without a doubt, that step has led to a new climate, resulting in the decision of the Iraqi Government to allow the unconditional return of United Nations weapons inspectors. That development, which will avert confrontation through diplomatic means, shows that a positive step will, in most cases, lead to a reciprocal positive step. At this point, it is appropriate to express our satisfaction with the Iraqi Government's prompt response to the call of the ministerial committee of the League of Arab States, which met in parallel with the General Assembly. We believe that it is now the Security Council's responsibility to undertake serious efforts to alleviate the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq. We also believe that it is now the responsibility of Iraq to promptly carry out its pledges to allow the return of the United Nations weapon inspection teams without prior conditions. The world has suffered great destruction and human misery during the last century, which was characterized by bloody confrontations, hate, conflicts and violence. In a world of intertwined dependencies and common interests, the peace and stability of humankind depend largely upon the international community's determination to forsake wars, renounce violence, combat terrorism and settle disputes by peaceful means and through the promotion of a culture of peace and dialogue, as well as by consolidating international cooperation, tolerance and understanding. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia calls for the establishment of an international humanitarian order based on a new form of partnership between the developed and developing countries, on a solid basis of cooperation, solidarity and international economic relations built on justice, equality, mutual benefits and joint responsibilities. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia looks forward to a twenty-first century governed by the rule of law and not by brutal force, a century of true pluralism in which everyone will participate in managing the affairs of the present and in creating the future, instead of excluding and ignoring others. We look forward to a year in which the moral values that govern human behaviour will prevail and in which the banners of justice, mercy and interaction among peoples will be raised in order to achieve security, stability and peace for all humanity.  ﻿On 21 September 1981 Belize joined the community of nations as an independent country, and we the people of Belize enthusiastically embraced our role as a partner in the community of nations. The United Nations played a pivotal role in securing Belize's right to self-determination, and, as we commemorate our independence, we express our appreciation and continued support for the work of the Organization. Since its inception in 1945 our United Nations has, like all of us, been grappling with the constant changes in our world. In its imperfection it has endured the problems of infancy, puberty and adolescence. Each adjustment provided occasions for learning and opportunities for growth. No, we have not always grown for the better; and we have suffered the cost of our mistakes. Still the United Nations endured, for the principles of the Charter will reverberate as loudly tomorrow as they do today and did yesterday. Our right to live peaceful and dignified lives holds as true today as it did in 1945. Two years ago world leaders assembled here in New York in an effort to rejuvenate the United Nations. This resulted in the Millennium Declaration and brought forth the Millennium Development Goals. In these instruments we acknowledged the growing abyss between the few with plenty and the many with nothing. We made new commitments and reaffirmed old ones. We renewed yet again our ultimate goal of the improvement of humanity, a goal which we undoubtedly hold as sacred. Since then we have held many meetings and conferences where we have merely recycled ideas and visions. Now we must aim for higher standards and make the case that, as a global community, we are obligated to account for how we have chosen to implement the many commitments we have made. For us implementation is a function of resources; good governance, both locally and globally; shared responsibility; and partnerships. The implementation of the Millennium Declaration can be effective only through the participation and cooperation of all relevant stakeholders. In order to ensure that the process of implementation is democratized, inclusive, transparent and accountable, we must act with shared responsibility and in partnerships of mutual respect and equality. As we follow the road map for the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, our deliberations and, even more so, our commitment to the Monterrey Consensus and to the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development should result in meaningful change that will improve the lives of our poorest peoples. On 5 February 2002, Belize hosted the first-ever Caribbean Community (CARICOM), System of Central American Integration (SICA) and Dominican Republic summit. In the joint declaration issued at the conclusion of the summit, the Caribbean and Central American leaders agreed to strengthen their cooperation and to coordinate actions in areas such as education, health, poverty elimination, environment, trade and investment. Shortly our Foreign Ministers shall conclude a Plan of Action to implement the goals set out in the declaration. The present development paradigm requires dynamic partnerships. Belize intends to play its part in encouraging closer collaboration and cooperation between Central America and the Caribbean. A major hindrance to development is conflict; it is costly and causes unnecessary pain and suffering, often to innocent victims. My delegation is concerned about any notion that violence could be a solution to conflict. History has taught us that lasting peace can never be constructed in a climate of vengeance. In this regard we express our grave concern over the continuing deterioration of relations in the Middle East, especially with respect to the Palestinian people. The escalation of violence in the region demonstrates the urgent need for the parties to resume peace negotiations. The universally endorsed vision of two States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace within secure and recognized borders, as called for by the Security Council in resolution 1397 (2002), should be realized as soon as possible. We encourage the efforts of the United Nations in facilitating a peaceful resolution to the question of Western Sahara and support the Settlement Plan as a viable political solution to the dispute. Conflict in its many manifestations finds its breeding ground in human desperation, frailty and ignorance. If we can address the needs of the disaffected and the vulnerable, then we can stamp out the embers of conflict and increase the potential for international peace and security. Yes, we must address those conditions according to our national capacity, but we cannot go it alone. A multilateral approach is imperative. Belize continues to look to the United Nations for the global enforcement of human rights standards. On 1 July 2002, the international community witnessed the entry into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. As a State Party to the Statute, my Government will abide by its legal obligations thereunder and will uphold the integrity of the Court. It is our hope that all peace-loving and law- abiding nations of the world will become parties to the Rome Statute so that the universal jurisdiction of the Court can be realized. The Court presents the hope that there will be an end to impunity for the perpetrators of genocide, of other crimes against humanity and of war crimes. We see this as the start of a new system of international justice. At this session of the General Assembly, we will be witnessing the expansion of the representative character of the United Nations. We recognize the tremendous contribution that the Swiss Confederation has made in international relations, particularly with respect to human rights and humanitarian issues. Its decision to become a full member of the United Nations will greatly enhance our work. Likewise, we are pleased to welcome the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste to our family of nations. Its struggle has been long and arduous, and its admission is a testament to the indispensable role of the United Nations. It is our wish that the United Nations be the forum for the representation of all peoples of the world, including the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan. We must give true meaning to the principle of universality set forth in the Charter and, more specifically, to the affirmation therein of our faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small. With the support of the United Nations, Belize became an independent nation. Before and after that 12 time, we made every effort to resolve the territorial dispute between Belize and Guatemala, which we had inherited from colonial times. All previous attempts had proved futile, but in March 2000, at the start of this millennium, Guatemala and Belize agreed to initiate a unique process to resolve the dispute. Each of us appointed a Facilitator and asked the Secretary- General of the Organization of American States (OAS) to be honour witness to the process. I am happy to be able to announce that, just yesterday, at OAS headquarters, the Facilitators presented their proposals for a peaceful and definitive resolution of the territorial dispute. The proposals must be submitted by referenda to the peoples of both countries, and only if accepted by both countries will they be translated into treaties of settlement that will bring this age-old dispute to an end and create better conditions for harmonious cooperation between the two countries something for which both our peoples yearn. We fervently hope that that will indeed come to pass. An essential aspect of the proposal involves a development trust fund, and we wish to thank all the countries that will generously contribute to making possible the peaceful settlement of a territorial dispute that has adversely affected relations not only between the countries involved, but also between the two subregions to which Belize belongs the Caribbean and Central America. Four days from today, our people will assemble and re-enact the events of our Independence Day. It will also be a time to renew our commitment to the principles of justice and liberty, to the right of a people to self-determination, to the right to development and to our continued commitment to live in peace with our neighbours. That is the legacy of the United Nations; that is our just objective.  ﻿At the outset, allow me to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as President for the current session of the General Assembly. I would also like to express appreciation to Mr. Han Seung-soo for his excellent organization of the work of the previous session of the General Assembly. A year ago the world confronted acts of terror, unprecedented in scale and barbarity. We all remember the 11 September 2001 events in the United States and mourn the lives lost. The events of last autumn, first of all, show that security threats are taking on new and dangerous forms. The phenomenon of terrorism has become more complex. At the current stage the world has to contend with organized international terrorism. The United Nations devotes much attention to the fight against international terrorism. We welcome the United Nations Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), which stipulates the establishment of the Counter-Terrorism Committee to coordinate and increase the efficiency of the international community's efforts to fight this most dangerous threat of the twenty-first century. I would like to recall in this regard that Uzbekistan strongly urged establishment of such a committee within the United Nations as early as 1999. Uzbekistan is one of the few countries that are parties to all twelve conventions on combating terrorism. We sincerely hope that the appeal by Secretary-General Kofi Annan to the United Nations Member States to join and ratify these documents will be followed and put into practice. Uzbekistan supports the international counter- terrorism coalition as a matter of principle and stands ready to make its contribution to enhance global and regional stability. 17 The events of 11 September made the world face up to the situation in Afghanistan and, one can say, opened the eyes of the international community to the fact that terrorism has no borders and only through joint efforts we can defeat this perilous challenge to humanity. In a strict and, I would say, categorical way the events of 11 September reminded everybody that twenty years of war turned Afghanistan into a breeding ground and hotbed of international terrorism that threatened not only neighbouring countries and nations, but all of humanity. We are gratified today by the positive developments in that country; we welcome the convening of the Loya Jirga, and the transitional Government led by President Hâmid Karzai. At the same time, despite the successful completion of the military phase of the counter- terrorist operation in Afghanistan, today there can be no room for complacency. First, huge amounts of weapons accumulated during the long years of war in Afghanistan still remain in the possession of armed groups there. In this context there can be no justification for the attempts of certain States to supply ever more weapons to this long- suffering land. To ensure stability and prevent military confrontation it is important to resolve the problems related to the reduction and collection of the huge amounts of weapons accumulated in Afghanistan. Clearing the Afghan territory of weapons arsenals belonging to criminal groups will also reinforce the activities of the United Nations and regional institutions to thwart the illicit arms trade. Secondly, the post-war dislocation, economic disaster, as well as the lack of resources to rebuild Afghanistan, may become a catalyst for social unrest that could be used by certain armed groups inside and beyond Afghanistan to create a new round of military confrontation. Thirdly, there are still various groups in the territory of Afghanistan, including remnants of the Taliban, that are capable of conducting subversive actions and guerrilla warfare. Confrontation continues among various warlord-leaders of different ethnic groups. Fourthly, the situation on drug trafficking remains almost unchanged. Afghanistan is still the world's main supplier of opium and heroin. According to many international experts, the removal of the Taliban regime does not yet mean the elimination of the criminal narcotics business in Afghanistan. Today the whole world is seriously concerned about this problem. There is an urgent need for adequate measures and assistance on the part of the entire international community, as well as the active support of the Afghan authorities to combat narco-aggression. The number of drug addicts in the world runs into the hundreds of millions of people. Proliferation of drug addiction undermines both the health of living generations and the gene pool of nations. This affects people in both the developed and developing countries. The Republic of Uzbekistan, making great efforts to fight drug production, abuse and trafficking, fully supports the measures undertaken by the United Nations and the international community to confront these threats. I would like to underline that it is much easier and more effective to fight drug trafficking at the source. Therefore, we have to block the huge flow of the Afghan drugs right at the borders of the Central Asian States, rather than hunt for grammes and kilogrammes in Europe and other developed countries. In this regard, it is advisable to shift from numerous counter-narcotics programmes of small efficiency to the concrete solution of this acute problem by allocating the United Nations-controlled resources and means to nip the narcotics trafficking at the source. Today the attention of the entire international community is riveted on the issue of Iraq. In this regard we support the statement of United States President George Bush delivered in the United Nations from this very rostrum. The measures towards resolution of the current situation proposed by the President of the United States deserve thorough consideration and may be taken as a basis for the elaboration of the position to be taken by the United Nations Security Council. Uzbekistan attaches great significance to the strengthening of the global process of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Our country has already received credit for its activity in this field. The strategy of Uzbekistan in ensuring security is based on the country's participation in the United Nations-led 18 processes of disarmament and arms control and reduction. Uzbekistan fully supports the principle of indivisibility of security and in this context, as an initiator of the nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia, acknowledges responsibility for strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime and takes active part in the elaboration process of international instruments in this field. Uzbekistan proposes to sign the practically finalized and agreed draft of the document on the nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia in Kazakhstan in the city of Semipalatinsk, the former site for hundreds of nuclear tests, in the presence of United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan during his upcoming visit to the Central Asian region. The Republic of Uzbekistan supports proposals made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan on the United Nations reforms. This is necessary for an appropriate adaptation of this Organisation to the dynamic changes in the international arena. Uzbekistan is one of those States that considers the United Nations Security Council reforms to be part of the evolution of the entire United Nations system. The current structure of the Security Council reflects the realities of a past era. The world has changed since then. We believe that Japan and Germany have a legitimate right to permanent membership in the Security Council. All necessary grounds for this are present. In conclusion, I would like to recall that it has been ten years since Uzbekistan became a United Nations Member, and it is very gratifying to see the United Nations family expanding. We congratulate Switzerland and the Democratic Republic of Timor- Leste on their decision to become fully-fledged parties to the multilateral cooperation and dialogue of the United Nations. It should mean that the idea of peace and noble principles of the global security system are the order of the day.  Allow me to begin by extending my warmest congratulations to you –– my colleague Mr. Jan Kavan — on his election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I cannot but remember the tragedy of 11 September 2001, the anniversary of which we commemorated just a few days ago. That bloody act committed here in New York, the host city of the United Nations Headquarters, was directed not only against the United States but also against all the rest of us, the entire civilized world that the United Nations symbolizes. Georgia has been part of the anti-terrorist coalition from the very first day. I would like to assure the Assembly that Georgia has been doing everything in its power to be a dedicated partner in this struggle and that it will maintain the spirit of cooperation until the very, successful end. The problem of international terrorism is complex and multidimensional, and I had intended to share our views and thoughts on that. However, the recent complications in Georgian-Russian relations have compelled me to shift the focus of my address. I am referring to the mounting aggressive attacks on my country's sovereignty emanating from the Russian authorities and media. On a daily basis, Georgia is being accused of harbouring terrorists, aiding fighters and fueling the conflict in Chechnya. This is a clear attempt to create an enemy image of Georgia in Russia's public opinion. Here I have to state clearly: this is utter nonsense. We believe that the pressure exerted on my country under the pretext of these absurd accusations is being used by Russia as a smokescreen to hide its own failure to cope with the conflict in Chechnya. As President Shevardnadze stated in his letter, transmitted by our Permanent Representative in identical letters addressed to the Secretary-General and to the President of the Security Council, “It is hard to imagine a clearer example of confusing the cause and the effect”. (A/57/408, annex) The truth is that this tragic chain of events started with the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, in which Chechen fighters, citizens of the Russia Federation, had been initially recruited, trained and sent to fight. Then, all of this boomeranged in the Chechen conflict against Russia, when those fighters turned their arms against their own patrons. As a result of two Chechen wars, Georgia has had to face an influx of thousands of Chechen refugees, and armed gangs of criminals forced into Georgia, followed by insistence from the Russian side on permitting a military operation against them on Georgian soil. All this meant a spillover of the endless and bloody war into Georgia, which we certainly could not allow. We are able to take, and are already taking, all necessary measures to uproot any possibility of the use of our territory by terrorists. Although it is evident that the problem of the Pankisi Gorge of Georgia is a side effect of the war in Chechnya, and not vice versa, the violations of airspace and attacks against the sovereign territory of Georgia by Russian military jets and helicopters have acquired a permanent character. The most recent air strike took place on 23 August 2002, causing civilian casualties. Georgia has irrefutable documentary and factual evidence of the attack, which has also been confirmed by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe border monitoring operation. Despite the clear evidence, the Russian military leadership cynically denies these facts, trying to avoid an objective investigation in spite of their official statements that one will be carried out. Moreover, unfolding hysteria in Russia on the issue of the Pankisi Gorge has culminated in statements by Russia's President and its military openly threatening Georgia with aggression. These actions not only gravely endanger peace and security in the region, but also undermine the efforts of the global anti-terrorist coalition to fight against this menace. What is at stake here is not only the sovereignty and independence of Georgia, but also the very fundamentals of the current international system. That is why we have brought this issue to this high forum. As I mentioned, Georgian special forces, aided by our friends, are conducting an operation to restore law and order in the Pankisi Gorge and the surrounding area. We already have achieved positive results and are ready to cooperate with all concerned parties, including Russia. Moreover, we are open to all international transparency measures. We call on the Russian side to reconsider their approach and, as President Shevardnadze stressed in his letter, we appeal “to the leadership of Russia and the President himself to find a common tongue [and] to rise above the existing problems”. (ibid.) We strongly believe that there is no other way out. Speaking about the conflicts in the Caucasus, I would like to draw attention to the most painful issue: the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, where our joint efforts have not yet been successful. I believe that the major mistake made by the international organizations was to give the so-called Abkhaz authorities an opportunity to engage them in endless and absurd disputes because of which the bases of the peace process were ignored. First, there is Georgia, a full-fledged member of the international community, whose internationally recognized territory is being violated by the non- legitimate, pseudo-Abkhaz regime based on hostility and ethnic cleansing. No positive results can be achieved if the two sides are treated in the same manner, if they are viewed as equally responsible and if a policy of pleasing both of them is pursued. Secondly, there is the fate of the more than 300,000 refugees and internally displaced persons who have been ousted from their homeland and deprived of their basic human rights, and whose prospect of return has for the past eight years failed to go beyond fruitless discussions. The years of ineffective negotiations merit only those conclusions. I must excuse myself before the authors of the most recent Security Council resolution on this matter, Council resolution 1427 (2002), but I cannot agree with the softness of their statements. Even though the de facto Abkhaz leadership completely ignored and categorically refused to receive the document, “Basic Principles for the Distribution of Competences between Tbilisi and Sukhumi”, elaborated by the Group of Friends of the Secretary-General, the arrogance of the separatist regime was responded to in the resolution only by a slight reproach. To our surprise, the most recent report of the Secretary-General, based on information from the United Nations Human Rights Office in Abkhazia, Georgia, points to “a modest improvement in the human rights situation”. (S/2002/742, para. 23) It is difficult to understand what kind of improvement is meant when the separatists insist that Georgian children should study Georgian as a foreign language at Georgian schools in Abkhazia, Georgia. The tragedy in Abkhazia, Georgia, where hundreds of thousands, mostly ethnic Georgians, have been forcibly expelled from their homes, has numerous times been rightfully assessed by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe as ethnic cleansing. Thus, we can only be astonished that the United Nations is so reluctant to make the same statement. This is the more so as the Abkhaz side has never complied with any of the 28 Security Council resolutions adopted since 1993. I hope members would agree that such inconsistency only strengthens the separatists' self-confidence and increases their belief in their impunity. In 1994 we made an unprecedented decision by asking the United Nations to permit the commencement of a peacekeeping operation engaging the 8 Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), whereby the “collective” peacekeeping forces included only a Russian military contingent. The reason for this was the complete absence of other alternatives at that time. Regrettably, eight years of this operation have made clear that the Russian peacekeepers, acting under the CIS aegis, fail to ensure the security that is so necessary for the return of the internally displaced persons and refugees to their homes in Abkhazia, Georgia. In fact, the peacekeepers have established an artificial border between the territory controlled by the separatists and the rest of Georgia. On that basis, we think it is high time to transform substantively the ongoing peacekeeping operation. In particular, we are in favour of introducing a civil police component and creating a joint Georgian- Abkhaz administration in the Gali district under international auspices. Considering the solid United Nations experience in the establishment and management of international police forces, we have high expectations of the Assembly's support. We strongly believe that more active involvement of the international community, and primarily of the United Nations, is indispensable. We understand that the United Nations is currently involved in several peacekeeping operations. Irrespective of that fact, we hope that some resources can be found to ensure more active United Nations engagement in the resolution of the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia. Speaking about the ineffectiveness of international efforts in resolving the Abkhaz conflict, we should admit that the lack of unanimity within the Group of Friends of the Secretary-General remains a serious impeding factor. That is why it took almost two years just to win consensus on the so-called Boden document. Moreover, we are repeatedly faced with actions by one of the members of the Group that are utterly inconsistent with the general approach. At the end of 2000, the Russian Federation introduced a visa regime with Georgia. But contrary to the elementary norms of international law, the right to visa-free movement has been maintained for the secessionist regions of Georgia: the Abkhazia and Tskhinvali regions. Numerous protests by the Georgian side against this discriminatory decision have been simply ignored. Moreover, this was followed by the mass issue of Russian passports to the local population of these two separatist regions, and their mass conversion to Russian citizenship through simplified procedures. Here a question arises: how do these actions, named “legal expansion” even by the Russian media, contribute to a peaceful resolution of these conflicts? I have to reaffirm that a peaceful resolution of the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, remains the only acceptable option for my Government. But as I have already mentioned, regrettably, the Abkhaz side has categorically refused to consider the document that determines the political status of Abkhazia within the State of Georgia. Therefore, we have to admit that the entire peace process in Abkhazia, Georgia, is as much in jeopardy as it is in need of drastic changes. We call on the United Nations to address this problem. Finally, United Nations reform has long been a topic of discussion. It is unfortunate that work in that regard has not progressed beyond an exchange of ideas. Too much time has been devoted to discussions on Security Council enlargement, the increase of the number of its permanent and non-permanent members, the change of procedures related to the right of veto and the adoption of joint decisions. Regrettably, there have been no practical results so far. Here I would like to stress that Georgia reiterates its full support for the speedy realization of the aforesaid changes. We strongly support granting permanent membership to Germany and Japan, as well as the overall enlargement of the Security Council. We also insist on increased transparency in the work of the Council. The world community is currently facing numerous challenges which require more decisive and radical steps. And I cherish the hope that this forum will be courageous enough to make them without delay. ﻿Allow me to begin, Sir, by congratulating you on your election to preside over the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. My congratulations go likewise to the outgoing president, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung- soo, for his dedication and for a job well done. I wish also to echo earlier speakers in welcoming, very warmly, Switzerland as the newest Member of the Organization and Timor-Leste, which will be joining us shortly. Global security models, which are in a process of change after the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, have posed serious and unexpected challenges to the international community. We have been faced with tragic proof that our security is more fragile than we had imagined and that democracy and freedom have been under attack. We have been violently reminded that combating terrorism is a matter for us all. The prompt and constructive response of my country, Romania, to the United Nations appeal for solidarity has been very clear. Our participation in the International Assistance Force for Afghanistan, approved by the Romanian Parliament in December 2001, clearly attests to our resolve to fulfil, in practice as well as in spirit, our commitment to the principles and purposes of the United Nations. Following the adoption by the Security Council of its resolution 1373 (2001), we enacted legislation to prevent, in Romania, the financing of terrorist organizations and acts, and we have ratified the 12 United Nations conventions and protocols concerning terrorism. We have been actively involved in operations in Afghanistan with our strategic allies and we are, together, tackling the consequences of the struggle against terrorism. (spoke in English) But have we, the international community, done enough? The Secretary-General, in his opening 14 statement, drew an uncompromising picture of the threats to peace, and rightly reminded us of our responsibilities. Romania believes it is necessary to proceed unambiguously in condemning and actively combating all forms of terrorism and violent fanaticism through cooperation at the international level that is substantive, consistent and coherent. The financing of terrorism is an obvious target for action. Romania believes that the experience of regional liaison and joint operations in South-East Europe can be of use to international efforts to suppress the flow of funds to terrorist groups. The terrorist threat calls for us to be even more vigilant in controlling the use and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as well as conventional weapons, such as landmines and small arms, which can fall — sometimes too often — into the wrong hands. In this context, Romania calls on Iraq to comply with existing Security Council resolutions and to allow United Nations inspectors to return, immediately and unconditionally, to enable further decisions to be taken relevant to the people of Iraq and the security and stability of the area. Romania was on the Security Council in 1990 when the first resolutions on Iraq were adopted and contributed to building consensus at that time. We believe that the Security Council must respond to the continued defiance of its resolutions firmly and resolutely. There can be no doubt as to my Government's stand should fears about possible threats to global security prove justified. As we have done in the past, we will stand alongside our allies and freedom-loving nations in the defence of world peace. A strong response to Iraq's long-term defiance of the Security Council's authority is also called for because of the threat to global security from weapons of mass destruction. The temptation to apply these same principles to other, localized conflict situations should be resisted, especially when mechanisms exist for dialogue and peaceful resolution. While States have the right to exercise control over their own security, they also have a responsibility to ensure that security measures do not undermine the foundations of democracy. We can adapt to these new realities without sacrificing human rights and universal values. Indeed, through respect for civil liberties and the promotion of equal opportunity and social cohesion, we can help to remove some of the root causes of terrorism: resentment and frustration fuelled by poverty and marginalization. This is a fundamental element of conflict prevention, but early warning and early intervention by the international community are not enough. The experiences of the last decade show that it is time to move away from ad hoc solutions for short-term problems towards an integrated and long-term approach to nation-building. By “integrated”, I mean that the international response should be based on an efficient division of labour between the appropriate organizations, with a common mandate and a clear chain of command. By “long-term”, I mean that international support should remain in place until security is seen to be durable and rehabilitation and local empowerment have become a reality. The stabilization and rehabilitation process in Afghanistan is a test for the changing pattern of international cooperation. Ultimately, reconstruction efforts must be directed towards sustainability and ownership by the Afghan people. The recent attempt on President Karzai's life demonstrates the frailty of the current situation in Afghanistan. This and the attacks in Kabul and other cities are dramatic reminders of the price paid by too many Afghan generations for recovering their sovereignty and for winning the right to govern their country. The intense effort that the United Nations has embarked upon in the democratic and physical reconstruction of the country is commendable. Romania believes that this commitment must be maintained as long as the dangers of a serious renewal of violence exist. Romania has already made a solid financial contribution to the international aid effort and is ready to offer further assistance, according to the requirements of the Afghan Government. But efforts to aid Afghanistan should not stop at that country's borders. Stability for that country and the region will be assured only through a broader vision for the development of the whole of Central Asia. We need to find a way to link Europe and Central Asia by working up an integrated strategy that will reinforce democracy and bring economic prosperity not only across Europe, but to Eurasia as well. A first step must be to put an end to the “frozen conflicts” in Eastern Europe and the Caucasus. The positive developments in South-East Europe show what can be achieved when the international 15 community takes action in a coherent and coordinated way. The United Nations and its international partners, notably the European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, have worked tirelessly to help to reconstitute societies based on the rule of law and ethnic tolerance, but the process is not yet complete. It is vital that this decisive electoral autumn show beyond doubt that modern democracy has taken root in the western Balkans. By ensuring free and fair elections, political leaders in the region should keep their countries on the right path to European integration. As Romania draws closer to achieving its Euro-Atlantic integration ambitions, we will continue to contribute actively to efforts to break down the remaining divisions in South-East Europe and to speed up the integration of the whole region into the European mainstream. The violent conflicts over the last decade awoke the world to the need for action against the horror of war crimes. The entry into force on 1 July of the International Criminal Court Statute represents a very significant step forward. Romania ratified the International Criminal Court Statute this year and remains deeply committed to ensuring that the Court function effectively as a viable and necessary instrument of international law. In this spirit, we encourage ongoing discussions, which should clarify some of the outstanding issues. The danger that the violence in the Middle East will escalate beyond control cannot be ignored. My recent discussions with political leaders from the region have reinforced my conviction that it is crucial to find a way to renounce the logic of war in favour of a logic of peace. We call on the parties to engage in serious negotiations for a peaceful, comprehensive and lasting solution. Their success or failure will have consequences far beyond their own immediate region, impacting upon what might be termed the wider Middle East, encompassing the entire region from Central Asia to North Africa. The two serious challenges for the twenty-first century are fighting terrorism and new security threats, on the one hand, and making globalization work for everyone everywhere, on the other. In both, the United Nations has a decisively important role to play. We have reached the point where we must address the global agenda in a way that finally meets people's expectations and achieves early results. We must deliver in a coherent and pragmatic way on the commitments taken at Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg, as well as other major United Nations conferences, such as the special session on children. We must design an urgent, clear and encouraging response to the humanitarian needs of Africa and promote conditions for the sustainable development of the African continent. Tangible progress depends upon a new paradigm of cooperation between stakeholders of globalization, States, corporations, international organizations and, of course, civil society. Efficient implementation depends upon a new architecture of global governance that is fitted to today's realities and a renewed sense of responsibility among all States. Finally, success in achieving the millennium development goals depends upon a strict and verifiable system for monitoring implementation. A new sense of participation and partnership must energize our common contribution. In this respect, We welcome President Bush's announcement that the United States will rejoin the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The graduation of the Central European countries from transition economies to membership of the European Union in the few years to come is proof that democracy with a functioning market economy and an open society does work. But there is a price, and that is the difficult decisions, politically and socially, of successful transition. We have been fortunate to have European Union financial support and know-how, which have been vital in maintaining the momentum and the public acceptance of sometimes painful reform programmes. In return, we will do the same by sharing the burden of international responsibility and assistance. We have not only a moral and historic, but also a strategic, responsibility to address the needs of the poor and disadvantaged in our region and beyond. Discontent and disillusionment breed instability, which in turn gives terrorism fertile conditions in which to flourish. Governments, business and civil society have a unique opportunity to accelerate economic development through the use of the powerful new information and communication technologies. In preparation for the forthcoming World Summit on the Information Society, to be held at Geneva in 2003 and at Tunis in 2005, Romania will host, from 7 to 9 16 November this year, a regional conference at the ministerial level organized jointly with the International Telecommunication Union and the Economic Commission for Europe. Our aim is to draw up a preliminary plan of action with specific mechanisms for bridging the digital divide. The Security Council is the linchpin of the United Nations. Romania believes that we must redouble our efforts to promote reform of that body. The composition of the Council should be more representative of our global membership and should reflect more accurately the realities of the global balance of power today. Romania's candidature for a Council seat in 2004-2005 is motivated by our deep commitment to the United Nations as a credible and efficient contributor to peace and stability around the world. What will we take home from this session? We need to reflect on how to eliminate the habit of ad hoc cooperation. We need to think creatively and to craft continuous patterns of teamwork, and we should be more receptive to what people want from the United Nations. That is how we can best live up to our commitments and overcome what is seen as the handicap of international organizations: the discrepancy between words and deeds. Let us leave this session determined to work on mapping out pledges and achievements in a way that will add vigour to our words and reinforce our credibility. That, after all, is the source of our unique strength.  ﻿I would like to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his deserved election as President of the General Assembly at this session. We wish him every success. I would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose efforts to promote peace and cooperation among nations are invaluable. Yesterday, in this city, we remembered the victims of a horrendous attack that was the very image of intolerance and fanaticism and revealed the darkest drives of human nature. I was deeply moved by this event and feel duty bound on behalf of my compatriots to express our pain, sorrow, and solidarity with those lost loved ones, and to all the citizens of the United States at this time of affliction. This terrible episode in history ought, however, to prompt us to rethink a number of dogmas concerning the current world paradigm for development, dogmas that prevent it from being sustainable over time, and which, like a dangerous mirage, may lead the whole of humankind into a collapse that could jeopardize our common future. I say this from the standpoint of a country, which, in its small way, is joining the collective endeavour to solve key problems that involve the fate of the whole planet. I am also convinced that it is in the poor countries of the world that the destiny of all is at stake. What we do, but above all what is done by those who possess more, and have put into effect a specific vision of society and of the economy that prevails today, shall determine whether our path will be one of hope or of catastrophe for all. On 9 April 1952 50 years ago Bolivia took the lead in a revolution that sought to democratize politics and end economic, social and ethnic exclusion, in order to attain a fairer national community. For the past 20 years we have kept that democracy functioning and we have been a pioneer nation in regulating our economy. Today, this process based on stability and dialogue is continuing. However, all that has been done is still insufficient. The road that lies ahead is very long, and we must travel it amidst crises and turmoil from which we have been unable to extricate ourselves. The social and economic problems we face are serious. Much of what we have achieved could be destroyed by pressure exerted by those, who in spite of everything, have been marginalized and excluded. This situation is rooted in overwhelming poverty, the unfair distribution of wealth, and the loss of faith in politicians, associated with corruption and the lack of answers to pressing daily problems. Our team became the Government of Bolivia as a result of a popular vote only thirty-six days ago, and we are committed to tackling these risks and challenges with resolution. We are doing this within the framework of a new democratic landscape. The election of 30 June 2002 established a new parliament that is diverse; this took place without violence or dramatic disruption and within a context of democratic and political maturity. Its main effect has been to begin to dismantle the walls of exclusion, on the basis of the recognition of others and tolerance and respect for different visions of the world. For the first time in our history, an essential part of Bolivia's population, the Quechuas, Aymaras and Guaranis, are represented in fair proportion. A pluralistic legislative branch in ethnic, economic, political and social respects is a promising setting for courageous dialogue about our ongoing problems. Our unswerving resolve is that this dialogue should be real and productive, because it will help us to find a way of working together on the political and social levels, while seeking to resolve these crises and working sincerely to break the long-standing social exclusion of indigenous people and discrimination against women, children, and older persons. I would like particularly to mention the resolve of our Government to make combating corruption a state policy. Only genuine and resolute efforts in this area 24 will make it possible for Bolivia to overcome one of the greatest impediments to development, one that threatens to destroy the essential foundation of our society. This resolve is part of a historic course followed, despite their different positions, by two parties in Bolivia: the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement and the Revolutionary Left Movement. Their leaders, Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada and Jaime Paz Zamora, have understood that, at such a time, it is necessary to set aside legitimate party interests and long-standing political differences in order to build a project of responsibility vis-‡-vis Bolivia. This is the only response possible for our nation at such a historic moment. This decision led to an alliance that has given rise to Plan Bolivia aimed at tackling the crisis by means of an ambitious programme of public investment that will stimulate the economy, encourage private inputs, create jobs, and reduce social inequities by favouring the most vulnerable sectors of our society. Plan Bolivia also seeks to respond to the complex challenges of globalization, redefine the role of the State in promoting sustainable development, respond to local and regional demands, and establish a full rule of law with robust and credible institutions. We know that we are not alone in this; we have seen such ideas elsewhere in recent decades. In spite of this, we urgently require our efforts to be backed by the international community. Bolivia has undertaken with determination the struggle to combat illicit drug trafficking as a moral imperative, in which we truly believe; but, in doing so, it has paid a high price in terms of human lives, economic effects, and violent social conflict. It is only right that those countries where drug consumption has greatest impact demand as you know is the key factor in this cycle give us support in proportion. We continue to fulfil our commitments. But we urgently call on the international community to fully endorse the concept of shared responsibility, which has been fostered and promoted in this forum more than once. A combination of internal efforts and international support to attain reasonable levels of sustainable social and economic development must be reached through a new logic that reformulates all of our earlier ideas of progress and development. Our afflicted Latin America was yesterday the hope of the planet and today is a continent caught in an emergency situation, with widespread social pressure, and economic collapse and facing a dangerous threat of an international domino effect. From its modest position, our country wishes to help halt these trends by being an example of how creative and democratic solutions can be used to address problems and overcome differences. This prompts us to emphasize that the most effective international aid is that which respects the decisions and plans of the countries that must use them. Imposing strict and unilateral recipes usually generates more problems than it solves. If equity is one of the first demands of humankind today, there is no better system than that of equitable international trade. Poor countries demand access for their products to the markets of the rich countries under adequate conditions. This is one of the key points of nexus of poverty and social tensions in the most disadvantaged countries and their population. That is why the Andean Trade Preference Act constitutes a step forward; although only conditional, it shows the will of a friendly nation to modify a still unfair relationship. We must understand free trade from a new standpoint, where the rules of the game are designed rationally to bridge the gap between the rich and the poor, a situation that has already reached scandalous levels. It is unacceptable for prosperous nations to impose limits on us, while they are not prepared to apply them within their own territories. I cannot conclude this intervention without reaffirming that recovering our status as a country with a coastline on the Pacific Ocean constitutes an important factor of our foreign policy. This claim, which we have made for the past 123 years, is not the product of stubbornness or whim; it is related to our insufficient economic resources and to the enormous geographical barriers that affect our competitiveness. The lack of direct access to the sea constitutes an obstacle to our growth and to the welfare of our citizens. The recovery of sovereign access to the sea is not only a matter of justice, but an ineluctable need for which we shall continue to seek the solidarity and support of the community of nations, and even more so now that century-old conflicts of this nature have been resolved in this new century. Bolivia is part of the world and, through vigorous participation within its region, will continue to contribute to a profound process of reflection regarding the type of global society that we must, wish to and can 25 build, based on its experiences and its own formulas for integrating and for making its own society participative. We are probably experiencing one of the most difficult moments since the end of the cold war and it has become necessary for us to be able to imagine a different and better world in which no idea is untouchable and no hope for change is smothered. ﻿Allow me to express, on behalf of the people and the Government of El Salvador, our most sincere congratulations to the President on being elected to conduct the work of this session of the General Assembly. Likewise, we would like to express our recognition to Mr. Han Seung-soo for the successful work he carried out during the past session. We commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his work and attention in the prevention and solution of conflicts, and we encourage him to continue moving forward in the reform process of the United Nations. 26 We welcome to this important world forum the Swiss Confederation and, soon, the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste in their new capacity of Member States. In this context, we reiterate our request to review the special international situation of the Republic of China on Taiwan, whose 23 million inhabitants are being denied the right to representation in this forum. We nurture the hope that in the near future the participation in this world Organization of all the nations of the world without exclusion — as is currently the case with Taiwan — will become a reality. The Government of El Salvador is convinced that it is necessary to examine new and visionary initiatives to remove existing obstacles in the discussions on the composition and role of the Security Council in the new millennium. That is necessary and essential in order for the United Nations to continue to be the principal world forum of collective action in the face of challenges to international peace and security. This year, my country commemorated the tenth anniversary of the signing of the peace accords, which put an end to armed conflict and paved the way for a new reality of hope, peace, democracy and development. Our democratic process has progressively been consolidated and is advancing with normality within the same dynamic of open debates and deliberations that characterize all democracies. This has been a result of the firm desire of all Salvadorians to construct a free and democratic society, which we, the Member States, should feel proud of and part of, through the successful role played by the United Nations. In the economic and social fields, we have achieved significant progress in strengthening peace and democracy. The Government of President Francisco Flores Pérez has strongly promoted an economic model featuring economic rights as a means to advance towards development and to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the opportunities of globalization. We have also favoured human development, investing primarily in education, health, housing and basic services, as those areas are indispensable elements contributing to social well- being, to the improvement in the quality of life of our people and to development. Ten years after the signing of the peace accords, El Salvador has successfully culminated its peace process and is now enjoying the dividends of peace. Therefore, we are grateful for the valuable support of the international community and of the United Nations. We are particularly grateful to the Group of Friends of the Secretary-General for the peace process of El Salvador — Colombia, Mexico, Spain, Venezuela and the United States of America — for the support they offered during the unfolding of that process, whose successful outcome continues to assist efforts for conflict resolution throughout the world. With regard to Central America, I wish to reaffirm El Salvador's spirit of integration, which leads us to attach high priority to our relations with neighbouring countries in seeking common development for the region and in strengthening the Central American integration process in its political, economic and social facets. We do so because it is only through a stable and united region that we will be able to complement one another in order to strengthen our position in the world economic environment and jointly face the challenges of globalization. Only through integration will we be able to overcome our narrow territorial limitations to effectively respond to the just demands of our citizens in the areas of education, health and opportunities for the future. Being united and open to the world as a region will be the only way we will be able to cease to appear small in the face of the great challenge of creating, with all the requisite speed, more and better jobs so that all our peoples will be able to forge for themselves a worthy future in their own homelands. It is in that context that the Presidents of Central America have agreed on an economic integration plan of action effective immediately. That plan includes the formation of a customs union by next year. Likewise, among other things, we will continue to work on adopting common duty tariffs and facilitating trade and the free movement of all products. With that goal in mind, and having already attained positive results with the Central American agreements now in effect with Mexico, the Dominican Republic, Chile and Panama, we are also jointly negotiating free trade agreements with Canada and United States. We are also working to strengthen and implement the Puebla-Panama Plan by implementing eight large meso-American integration projects. Through the Puebla-Panama Plan we intend to take advantage of the potential of Central America and of the southern and south-eastern regions of Mexico as 27 a natural corridor linking North and South America and joining two oceans. We have responsibly assumed the historical challenge to address through relevant bodies the border disagreements inherited by the current generation of Central Americans. El Salvador has done its share in this regard. We are convinced that strict compliance with international law provides the foundation for harmony among neighbouring countries. We have therefore recently reached an agreement at the presidential level with the Republic of Honduras to accelerate the demarcation of our territorial borders. Furthermore, we have also recently resorted to the International Court of Justice to exercise our right to request a revision of its 1992 judgement, but only with regard to one of the six areas in dispute in the case that we jointly submitted in 1986. Through these efforts, El Salvador and Central America are clearing the way in order to make unencumbered progress towards the realization of our common integration projects. In the end, our goal is for the borders that we are now defining through law to be erased in practice by harmony, mutual respect and the development of our peoples. In the international sphere — having just commemorated the first anniversary of the terrorist attacks perpetrated in the United States — the Government of El Salvador would like to reiterate its firm commitment to the worldwide struggle against terrorism and all related criminal activities. We view this global effort as a joint and individual endeavour of Member States. Consequently, we see it as an effort linked to the deepest respect for the principles established in the Charter of the United Nations, in international law and in international humanitarian law. In that connection, the Government of El Salvador would like to express its gratitude for the efforts being made by the Counter-Terrorism Committee established by Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We also reiterate our complete readiness to cooperate in the unequivocal implementation of that resolution. In addition, we would like to inform the international community that El Salvador will host the third session of the Inter-American Committee against Terrorism. That meeting will be held in San Salvador during the first half of 2003. We hope the meeting will adopt relevant decisions to further strengthen the hemispheric fight against this scourge. El Salvador recognizes the progress achieved with the entry into force of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. In this regard, my Government is carrying out the necessary reviews to bring our constitutional rules in line with those of the Statute, so as to enable us to initiate the process of joining the Court. In the same vein, I am also pleased to inform the Assembly that last week El Salvador ratified the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, as well as the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. In his report on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, the Secretary-General stated that the world in which we live today is divided between rich and poor as never before in human history. That report also pointed out the harsh reality experienced by one sixth of all human kind, which daily fights to survive in a life and death struggle with sickness, hunger and natural and human disasters. Meanwhile, another sixth of mankind has attained levels of well-being that would have been unimaginable just a few decades ago. Between both extremes there are the 4 billion inhabitants of developing countries who, although we may no longer be living on the verge of disaster, are very far from achieving the security, capacity and material well-being enjoyed by the developed world. As a developing country, El Salvador is following the course charted at Monterrey. We hope that the offers of funding made by various countries at the Conference will become a reality. We are also actively participating in the preparatory work for the World Summit on the Information Society, as we are convinced of the potential benefits that connectivity and knowledge will bring to the future development of free societies. In that sense, El Salvador shares the vision that international cooperation with medium-income countries must not be exclusively limited to technical cooperation. That cooperation should also include financial cooperation, as the fight against poverty should not be confined by borders or limited by statistics pertaining to national averages. Such figures are far from being a true reflection of existing realities in different places. Our renewed democracies need to 28 be consolidated, strengthened and made sustainable in a way that gives everyone access to a better quality of life. Another of the major challenges we face, namely, natural disasters, could nullify the efforts we have made throughout the years. The devastating effects of such phenomena are no longer limited solely to traditionally vulnerable regions. As was the case recently in many European countries, other regions that previously had not been very much affected by natural disasters are now experiencing them. In this connection, the people and the Government of El Salvador would like to reiterate their complete solidarity with the Governments of affected countries and with the families that have suffered as a result of the devastating floods in Europe. The Government of El Salvador calls on the international community to jointly implement the agreements reached in the five basic areas taken up by the World Summit on Sustainable Development that took place recently in Johannesburg, South Africa. Those included water and sanitation, energy, health, agriculture and biological diversity. All of them are of crucial importance to the future of the environment, particularly in developing countries. Allow me to conclude by reiterating the firm commitment and political will of the Government of El Salvador to contribute actively to the search for collective and individual solutions to the problems that we will take up during this session of the General Assembly. We also wish to reiterate our confidence in the work that the Secretary-General is doing on behalf of the nations that make up our Organization and on the basis of the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter. Along with the strengthening of multilateralism, those purposes and principles remain entirely valid in the new millennium.  ﻿Let me begin, Mr. President, by congratulating you on your well-deserved election. It is a great pleasure to see you, my good friend and colleague, preside over the proceedings of the General Assembly at this session. My delegation is ready to provide its full support to you. Let me also express my gratitude to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his dedication and accomplishment. Slovakia welcomes Switzerland as the newest Member of our Organization. We look forward also to welcoming East Timor and to working closely with both of them in promoting peace, security and prosperity throughout the world. The terrorist attacks on the United States a year ago evoked worldwide anguish and outrage, followed by enormous solidarity among nations throughout the world and a firm stand by the worldwide coalition against the scourge of terror. At the end of the day, those cowardly acts of terror did not reach their ultimate goal: chaos, anarchy and the destruction of the 12 world community. On the contrary, they strengthened our resolution to seek world peace and security and to promote life in dignity and prosperity for all. Slovakia pledged its full support for the anti-terrorist coalition from the very beginning. As the ruins of the World Trade Center were smouldering at the southern tip of Manhattan, the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretary-General acted quickly, resolutely and collectively. The United Nations proved to be crucial in the fight against terrorism, which should be maintained as a global campaign. Organizing this global task must be central to our efforts at the United Nations. We acknowledge the role of the United Nations in trying to raise the capacity of every Member to defeat terrorism in a globally coordinated way and in conformity with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), which was adopted unanimously by the Council last year. Since 11 September 2001, the Slovak authorities have adapted and strengthened domestic legislation so that it can be applied effectively against acts of terrorism. Slovakia deposited its instrument of ratification to the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism earlier this month, and has thus become party to all 12 international conventions and protocols against terrorism. Their provisions are already incorporated in our domestic legislation. We are committed to continue our cooperation in these endeavours with the relevant United Nations institutions. Shortly following 11 September 2001, the Al Qaeda network and the Taliban regime that harboured those terrorists were fought and disrupted. Organizing a global response to the political and humanitarian crises in Afghanistan became one of the crucial tasks at the Untied Nations. A chance for the people of Afghanistan to start rebuilding their country, which had been fragmented for so long, has been offered. We commend the work of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan and the countries contributing to the International Security Assistance Force. Slovakia is actively engaged in the reconstruction and rehabilitation process in Afghanistan. An engineering unit from Slovakia was dispatched to take part in the Operation Enduring Freedom in August 2002. Slovakia reaffirms its commitment to arms control, disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We effectively participate in regional and global efforts in the field of disarmament and international security. The increased threat of international terrorism today gives rise to questions regarding the relationship between terrorism and disarmament, as well as the contributions that multilateral treaties and institutions in this field can make. We must make greater progress in achieving disarmament and non-proliferation goals, strengthen verification and implementation mechanisms, and thereby contribute to the creation of a safer world in which terrorism cannot breed and flourish. We will continue to work cooperatively and constructively in the pursuit of disarmament and arms limitation goals. Over the last decade we have witnessed an upsurge in ethnic, social and religious violence all over the world, when simmering tensions and power struggles boiled over into open conflicts. There has been an increasing demand for the United Nations to intervene with regard to those threats to international peace and security. As a result, peacekeeping has become more frequent and more complex. Modern peacekeeping operations are multidimensional, with tasks ranging from traditional deployment of military personnel, demining and medical support, to verification, disarmament, the rebuilding of infrastructure and the facilitation of institution-building, democratization and elections. Peacekeeping operations have changed also in terms of the financial resources they require. My Government has always been fully committed to the maintenance of international peace and security. Peacekeeping has always been an important aspect of our involvement in United Nations activities. Slovakia currently provides military personnel and observers for seven United Nations peacekeeping missions, in Ethiopia and Eritrea, in Cyprus, in Iraq, in Jerusalem, on the Golan Heights, in Sierra Leone and in East Timor. The number of Slovak military personnel serving under the United Nations flag has steadily increased since the mid-1990s. Currently, there are more than 600 troops, apart from the Slovak soldiers participating in missions in the Balkans under NATO leadership. Slovakia will remain actively engaged in this crucial area of the United Nations responsibilities in the future. Let me pay tribute to those courageous men and women from various nations who contributed to the peace missions and who lost their lives while serving under the United Nations flag. My country has also suffered the loss of lives. Four brave Slovak men have been awarded, in memoriam, the Dag Hammarskjöld medal. 13 Resolutions adopted by the Security Council under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter are legally binding. The failure of any Member State to fulfil the requirements of those resolutions constitutes a breach of the Charter. In such cases, the international community has the right to enforce the rule of law. We have carefully noted the decision of the Government of Iraq, announced earlier this week, to allow the return of United Nations weapons inspectors without conditions. Yet that decision needs to be matched with further concrete steps which would provide for the swift and full implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. The question of Israel and Palestine has been occupying our attention since the United Nations was founded. It is our common responsibility to achieve a comprehensive solution resulting in the existence of two States living side by side in peace and mutual respect within secure and recognized borders. We fully support the efforts of the diplomatic Quartet on the Middle East to push forward the vision of peace in the region. Slovakia is fully committed to the rules and principles of international law and justice. In that context, we attach particular importance to the work of the International Court of Justice. The Court has proved to be a very useful institution for resolving inter-State disputes, including some serious territorial disputes. That institution deserves full support, including financial support, from the General Assembly. Slovakia and its southern neighbour have previously submitted a dispute to the Court. Now, having already recognized the Court's jurisdiction over a number of European countries, we are in the process of preparing a declaration that will recognize the general compulsory jurisdiction of the Court, in accordance with article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute. We remain convinced that, as the main repository of international law, the United Nations must play an important role in strengthening legal approaches to fighting the most serious crimes of international concern. Slovakia fully supports the work of international criminal tribunals, as well as the establishment of the International Criminal Court. We have signed and ratified the Rome Statute of the Court. Slovakia became one of the countries whose ratification was necessary for the entry into force of the Statute on 1 July 2002. Despite various concerns and reservations expressed by some Member States of the United Nations, we continue to believe that the Court has the potential to promote the rule of law and to prevent impunity by persons who commit the most serious of crimes. Our position on the issue of Security Council reform is linked to the importance we attach to making the Organization more effective. Let me once again underline this position. In addition to maintaining its necessary representative character, the Security Council should also preserve the required operational flexibility. Slovakia supports the enlargement of the Security Council in both the non-permanent as well as the permanent category. We consider it fully justified for one additional non-permanent seat to be allocated to the Group of Eastern European States, as that Group's membership has doubled in the last decade. As the world becomes more and more global, the United Nations should respond by becoming ever more universal. The concerns of all nations should be listened to irrespective of their size, geographic location, military strength or economic power. We have no doubts as to the irreplaceable role of the United Nations in tackling global issues, whether with regard to the protection of human rights, the eradication of famine, poverty, disease and illiteracy or prevention of the proliferation of drugs and weapons. We all live on one planet. We must all face the deterioration of the environment and together adopt adequate measures to guarantee sustainable development. The Millennium Declaration shows us the right way. The world community must now increase its efforts to meet all of these goals. The Monterrey and Johannesburg summits proved that much can be achieved if decisions are based on global consensus. They also showed the power of having the will and determination to tackle global issues. We now have to concentrate on the fulfilment of our commitments. We need deeds. The United Nations should play a leading role in monitoring the implementation of our decisions. We need a United Nations that is strong and efficient. ﻿My warmest congratulations go to you, Sir, on your early election as President of the General Assembly, which was the first fruit of the revitalization efforts of your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo. We congratulate both of you on successfully implementing these new procedures. 9 After the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, the world joined the United States in expressing grief and outrage. Citizens from nearly one half of the United Nations Member States perished. A swift, determined United Nations response set the stage for a united global effort to weed out terrorism. Never in recent history have so many States acted in such unison as members of one international community as they did in the months following 11 September. That was not inevitable. The international community could easily have fractured after 11 September . Hence, it is useful to reflect on the forces that brought us together and on what key lessons we have learned. After 11 September 2001, the international community rallied together because we all realized that the challenges posed by those events affected the common interests of all States. The common menace of terrorism elicited a cohesive psychological response. Everyone is vulnerable. In Singapore, we discovered terrorists belonging to a regional network with links to Al Qaeda, whose tentacles spread to Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand and even Australia. Its targets were United States, Israeli, British and other foreign interests. But a cohesive response also requires a galvanizing force. The United Nations provided that. The United Nations also legitimizes international action. On 12 September 2001, the Security Council adopted, by consensus, its resolution 1368 (2001), condemning the terrorist attacks and expressing its readiness to take all necessary steps to respond to the attacks. It was followed shortly by a consensus resolution of the General Assembly, resolution 56/1. Within three weeks of the attack, the Security Council negotiated and adopted, again by consensus, its resolution 1373 (2001), a landmark resolution which dealt comprehensively with counter-terrorism and provided a common legal basis for all States to take action against terrorists and their supporters. The Security Council's response to 11 September was impressive and was possible only because all the major Powers agreed on the need to respond decisively to the terrorist threat. Indeed, the war on terrorism has reordered international priorities and has created new opportunities for partnership, casting a new strategic overlay over great-Power relationships. Terrorism is not a new phenomenon. Many of us have long had unhappy experiences with it. But 11 September focused us on its globalized nature and stressed the need for coherence and coordination in international cooperation. After 11 September, a number of international, regional, subregional and national plans of action and strategies to combat terrorism emerged. Some of these proposals took the form of specific and practical counter-terrorism measures. Others assumed a more normative character. These efforts are the building blocks for coordinated international action against terrorism. This commitment to collaborative international action, however, has only recently begun to take shape. Since 11 September, various organs of the United Nations system have examined their respective responsibilities and available tools so as to undertake this collaborative mission in the most effective manner. The report prepared by the Policy Working Group on the United Nations and Terrorism is a clear example. Coordination and coherence within the United Nations system should certainly be enhanced. The common enemy we face has built up a sophisticated and complex global network that requires an appropriate response. But as we consider new international mechanisms to fight terrorism, we should pause to reflect on a key question: how can we ensure effective coordination between the United Nations, other regional and international organizations and Member States? How can we synergize respective international, regional and national competencies to maximize operational effectiveness against terrorism? The United Nations comparative advantage and aptitude reside in its consultative, coordinating and facilitative functions. Ultimately, however, the contributions made by the United Nations must depend on the political will and resolve of its Member States to make its laws and norms work. Achieving the right equilibrium of responsibilities and obligations is crucial if we are to succeed in our common mission to defeat international terrorism. The battle against terrorism has also to be fought at the philosophical level. Some terrorists have tried to depict the current global anti-terrorism campaign as a war against Islam. This is obviously not true. No religion tolerates terrorism, and Islam certainly does not, but we should not ignore the extent to which the 10 appeal of extremists such as Osama bin Laden resonates with the marginalized and disenfranchised, feeding upon stereotypes and prejudices. At a time of confusion and uncertainty, the value of cross-cultural understanding and communication cannot be underestimated. As an international Organization with near universal membership, the United Nations can play a key role in promoting tolerance and understanding between nations, cultures and religions. The United Nations dialogue among civilizations is a key initiative that we should build upon. The dialogue among civilizations celebrates diversity and introduces a new paradigm of international relations, promoting a dialogue among the major world religions and cultures. Dialogue between the different cultures and religions would help to reduce the sources of prejudice and intolerance that currently colour individual and societal perceptions. Another longer-term challenge is to address the economic and social conditions that encourage terrorists. International economic integration is ultimately the only guarantor of prosperity, but the fact is that globalization is both incomplete in scope and uneven in its distribution of costs and benefits. Many developing countries remain imperfectly integrated into the world economy. These problems must be addressed by capacity-building and infrastructure development within developing countries, with whatever international assistance is necessary, and by the elimination of trade barriers and protectionism in the developed countries. The events of 11 September underscored that, in an interdependent world, no one is invulnerable. Local problems can easily be transformed into global problems. Each day that we do not act to address and contain these problems increases their potential to do more harm. Our collective security is dependent on our ability and willingness to confront new challenges. We should not await another catastrophe on the scale of 11 September before we are forced to act on other equally challenging global problems that confront us. The war against terrorism has to be waged with both guns and butter. I would like to conclude by sharing our experiences on the Security Council. Almost two years ago, members of the General Assembly gave Singapore the honour and privilege of serving as one of the elected members of the Security Council. Our term ends this December. I want to thank all those who showed their trust in us by giving us this unique opportunity. Our experience has been a fulfilling and enriching one from which we have drawn important lessons and insights. The Security Council has gone through many phases. Designed first of all to deal with inter-State conflicts, the Security Council has increasingly moved towards handling intra-State conflicts in the post-cold-war era. But the terrorist attacks of 11 September were an unprecedented development. They produced a new era, confronting the Security Council with a new and distinct threat to international peace and security. Singapore has therefore served in two very different Security Councils one before 11 September and another after those tragic events. For the Security Council to remain effective, it has to demonstrate that it can respond effectively to new challenges. Otherwise, its relevance and credibility will be compromised. As a small State, we are vulnerable to such terror attacks. As a member of the Security Council, we have supported initiatives which address this new threat. A key lesson that we have learnt is that, for all its imperfections and occasional failings, the Security Council often does work. It is nevertheless too early to gauge the success and effectiveness of the Security Council in responding to the scourge of terrorism. Whether the Security Council can continue to develop appropriate responses over the long run at this plastic phase of the creation of a new strategic era will be a critical test of its relevance in the new century. It is naive to expect that the swift unity of global action post 11 September will henceforth be demonstrated on all global issues. Our experiences in the Security Council attest to protracted processes being the norm rather than the exception for coalescing international action. But where international consensus has not yet consolidated over situations posing serious and immediate threats, the lack of international consensus in itself cannot be an excuse for inaction. That would be an abdication of individual and collective responsibility. Finally, as one of two Asian elected members of the Council, we were pleased to make a small contribution to the East Timor success story. This success was made possible only by the hard work and sacrifices of its people, with the support of the international community. Today, the United Nations continues to play a critical role in preserving the peace in East Timor and in ensuring that the Government and people of East Timor have the opportunity to succeed in their quest to build a democratic, stable and viable State. We look forward to welcoming East Timor as the 191st Member of the United Nations. Let me conclude by warmly congratulating Switzerland for becoming the 190th Member of the United Nations. Switzerland may be a new member; however, it has also provided the second most important venue for United Nations activities. It has therefore long been a partner of the United Nations and, I believe, this partnership will be deepened with its membership.  ﻿On behalf of the President of the Republic of Haiti, His Excellency Mr. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, I should first of all like to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. He can be assured of the Haitian delegation's full support in the exercise of his duties. I should also like to congratulate his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, on the talent he demonstrated in conducting the work of the fifty-sixth session. I should also like to pay tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the Organization, for his ceaseless efforts to maintain international peace and security. In addition, I wish to welcome the Swiss Confederation and East Timor to the Organization as States Members. Undoubtedly, their presence in this institution will contribute significantly to the pursuit of the noble objectives of the United Nations. The entire world has just commemorated the first anniversary of the tragedy of 11 September 2001. The Government and the people of Haiti again express their sympathy to the people and the Government of the United States. We continue to share the distress of all the families of the victims of that barbarity, which touched all races, cultures and nations of the world. It is humanity that has been struck, and humanity will always remember that sad event. The Government of Haiti reaffirms its condemnation of terrorism, one of the most flagrant forms of human rights violations. Terrorism represents a grave danger, and we must unite all our efforts to combat it in all its forms and manifestations. In that connection, my Government reaffirms its commitment to supporting the relevant resolutions of the Organization as an expression of its respect for the precepts of international law. Reform of the Security Council, which has been discussed for some time, is, more than ever before, of the highest importance. Haiti continues to call for more 25 openness in its operations and for greater participation in its decision-making. The Charter of the United Nations, ratified by all States Members, evokes the sacred principles of maintaining international peace and security as well as the right of peoples to determine their own future with the leaders they choose. In that connection, the Government of Haiti expresses its grave concern at the escalating violence in the Middle East, and particularly the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The Haitian Government supports the creation of a Palestinian State, while recognizing Israel's right to exist within safe and internationally recognized borders. We call on the parties to settle their differences peacefully through dialogue and diplomatic means. In the same spirit, we appreciate the negotiations initiated between the two Republics of Korea, and we are in favour of a rapprochement between the populations on both sides of the Taiwan Strait. Despite Iraq's acceptance of the unconditional return of the inspectors, the Haitian Government is concerned at developments in the Iraqi situation. In order to deal effectively with this problem, the relevant United Nations resolutions must be applied. Regionalization is an important tool to facilitate partnerships among States as they strive to ensure the well-being of their people. In that context, my country is gratified by its full integration within the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), where it will contribute to the socio-economic development of the region. Humanity today is facing serious challenges, including poverty, the AIDS pandemic, drug abuse, hunger and illiteracy. The population of the least developed countries is about 614 million, one third of whom have to survive on less than $1 per day. Characterized by weak institutions and an inadequate infrastructure, those countries are affected by many different problems. The sub-human conditions under which many of their people live are a source of social tension. Poverty increases in proportion as capital decreases. We returned from the Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg summits with renewed hope. Expectations are great, in keeping with the promises made. It is not enough, however, to hope for sustainable development. We must have the will to implement measures to attain it and respect the commitments undertaken. Leaders must take action to ensure sustainable development, which is in the best interests of our peoples. Education and training can roll back poverty, free people from ignorance and put them on track to social and economic progress. On the basis of that conviction, the President of Haiti, Mr. Jean Bertrand Aristide, officially launched, on 7 September 2001, a national literacy campaign, to which he attributes overriding importance. The goal of this large-scale and ambitious initiative is to help 3 million people learn to read before 1 January 2004, when we will celebrate the bicentennial of our independence. The head of State is counting on the active participation of our literate citizens in the work of national construction. Glaring injustices are built into our country's traditional socio-economic system. These injustices are responsible for wide disparities between the various social sectors — a situation that contributes in large part to the anachronistic nature of the general structures of our country, which is the only least developed country in the Americas. Against that background, the Government has been doing its utmost to fight the financial embargo, which the international community imposed in response to the controversy of the elections of 1 May 2000. Unfortunately, it is the most vulnerable sectors of society that are penalized by those unjustified sanctions. The recent adoption by the Permanent Council of the Organization of American States (OAS) of resolution 822 in support of strengthening the democratic process in Haiti has opened up encouraging prospects for our country in beginning to move towards normalization. My Government is determined to stay the course in ensuring that elections remain a crucial element of that advance. We have great expectations of the international community's support in this regard. In this context, we are hoping for assistance, and for election observers in particular. At the same time, in the spirit of resolution 822, we appeal once again as a matter of urgency for an end to the financial embargo. The adoption of OAS resolution 822, which demonstrates the commitment to Haiti of a number of OAS member countries, constitutes a step in the right 26 direction. We would like to draw attention to that expression of fraternal solidarity. We are also grateful to the States members of OAS whose joint efforts made possible the adoption of that consensus resolution, in particular the Federal Republic of Brazil, which currently coordinates the Latin American Integration Association and OAS groups, and the Central American countries. We would like to make special mention of our neighbour, the Dominican Republic, which has continued to reaffirm its solidarity with Haiti during this difficult period — solidarity that is manifested in different ways wherever the Haitian cause is discussed and needs to be defended. Above all, we would like to thank our sister nations in CARICOM, whose delegations to the OAS co-sponsored, with Haiti, the draft resolution, thereby maintaining the spirit of fraternal generosity, as is their custom. During the crisis, a number of countries Members of the United Nations, in particular Japan and Cuba, continued to cooperate with Haiti. Despite the embargo and the other difficulties that it has to deal with, Cuba is enthusiastically pursuing a programme of cooperation with Haiti, in particular in the areas of health and agriculture. The Haitian people owe a debt of gratitude to all of those countries for their expressions of solidarity in our quest for dignity and collective affirmation. OAS resolution 822 provides the entire nation with an opportunity; it holds out the potential for progress for all the Haitian people. In the context of the forthcoming celebrations of two centuries of independence, Haiti needs to galvanize its collective energy so that we can build our national home. To that end, the Haitian Government will hold an ongoing dialogue and continue to practise openness and flexibility, as called for by President Aristide. In that spirit, despite our well-known scarcity of resources, it has decided to compensate the victims of 17 December 2001, in accordance with OAS resolutions 806 and 822. Likewise, President Aristide will continue to call on the opposition to observe a patriotic truce in order to facilitate the rehabilitation of the country and support the Haitian people. In this context, my country appeals once again for us to place human beings at the forefront of relations among various countries. This planet — the theatre of our common destiny — can thus become a world fit for all of its inhabitants through the advent of a “humanism without borders”. On that basis of that conviction, the Republic of Haiti, on the eve of the bicentenary of our independence, invites the international community to help us to set in motion a process that will enable us to overcome the shocking reversals of the past and bring us into the modern world. I hope that all of the nations of the world share these exalted hopes and that they will join us in celebrating this important event, to which the Government and the people of Haiti invite them, in January 2004.  ﻿At the outset, I should like to tell you, Sir, how pleased my delegation is to see you presiding over the work of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. To your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, I should also like to express my sincere and warm congratulations on the competence, devotion and authority with which he guided the work of the fifty-sixth session. I should also like to express again to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the Organization, the warm congratulations and profound gratitude of the Government of Mali for the effectiveness and wisdom he has shown in managing the concerns of the international community in a particularly difficult context. I take this opportunity to reiterate to the Secretary-General the thanks of His Excellency Mr. Amadou Toumani Touré, President of the Republic of Mali, for the confidence that the Secretary-General has placed in him in seeking solutions to certain conflicts that are shaking Africa. He expresses Mali ‘s readiness to continue to work for the preservation of international peace and security, particularly in Africa. Mali wishes to welcome to the Organization Switzerland and Timor-Leste, whose admission strengthens the universal character of the United Nations. The fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly is opening in an international context marked by the persistence of areas of tension, of development inequalities and of growing poverty among the peoples in developing countries, of the sad consequences of globalization, of natural disasters and of the extremely difficult consequences of the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, whose first anniversary the international community has just commemorated. At the time, Mali vigorously condemned those attacks, which nothing can justify. Since then, it has participated in the great international campaign of the fight against terrorism. In so doing, it has ratified all international legal instruments related to the fight against terrorism. Likewise, important means and mechanisms have been put in place so that Mali ‘s national territory cannot be used for the preparation or perpetration of terrorist acts. In order to meet the terrorist threat, it is important that the international community strengthen cooperation among its members. Furthermore, Mali calls for integrated and sustained global action, in which the United Nations should play the premier role. It reiterates the appeal of Africa, of the Non-Aligned Movement and of the Organization of the Islamic 2 Conference for the holding of an international conference under the auspices of the United Nations aimed at swiftly concluding a universally accepted legal instrument on international terrorism. In Mali, the year 2002 was devoted to the holding, for the third time, of pluralistic, democratic and peaceful elections, at the outcome of which His Excellency Mr. Amadou Toumani Touré assumed the country ‘s highest post. Those elections are sufficient proof that Mali ‘s democratic institutions have taken root, and they support the democratic culture of the Malian people. Here, I must express, on behalf of the people and the Government of Mali, my heartfelt thanks to all our partners for their contribution to the organization, the holding and the success of those elections. Mali is deeply attached to the consolidation of the rule of law, to the preservation of peace and security and to the improvement of the living conditions of populations. In that regard, our conviction remains that we must deepen, promote and respect those values. For Mali, republican and democratic institutions must be renewed only through democratic institutional mechanisms that have been established in advance. The strengthening of good governance, the consolidation of the democratic process, food security, the improvement of the educational and health systems, the organization and effective functioning of justice, actions to promote children and women, and the fight against poverty and corruption are, inter alia, the challenges to which the new Government of Mali is committed to face. Likewise, as part of its policy of economic and social development, Mali is working, with the help of its development partners, to implement macroeconomic reforms designed to re-launch the process of growth and development. Mali is resolutely determined to guarantee individual security in all its dimensions. That why my country is a full-fledged member of the Human Security Network. It fully agrees that there is a need to harmonize efforts with regard to the destruction of anti- personnel landmines and the fight against the illicit trade in and the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, with a view to adopting a United Nations programme of action to reduce the human suffering caused by those scourges. Stability, peace and security are prerequisites for any process of true development in Africa. Despite the significant progress made in resolving certain African conflicts, our continent continues to be faced with a number of ongoing problems, including debt, the continuing fall in the price of raw materials, the democratic deficit, the HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria and difficulties related to humanitarian assistance. Those issues constitute a serious impediment to development efforts in Africa. Mali welcomes the fact that the long fratricidal conflict in Angola has come to an end and pays a well- deserved tribute to the people and the leaders of Angola for the courage that they have shown and the efforts that they are continuing to make to consolidate peace and bring about national reconciliation. I should like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the United Nations for its valuable contribution to the search for a resolution of the Angolan conflict. I should also like to pay tribute to my compatriot, the late Alioune Blondin Beye, a talented diplomat who was the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Angola from 1994 until the time of his death in June 1998. Alioune Blondin Beye made the supreme sacrifice on behalf of peace in Angola. The recent signing of a peace agreement between the main parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is a further reason for hope. These glimmers of hope for conflict management on the continent will require intense support from the international community, which must provide further support for Africa's efforts through in the form of resources and mechanisms that are capable of providing security and promoting development, stability and peace. The launching of the African Union, which has replaced the Organization of African Unity, certainly represents the most decisive historic and political event on the African continent this year. The African Union will enable the continent to plan for its future more clearly, take responsibility for its own development, prevent and manage conflict and promote partnership and international cooperation that is better adapted to the expectations of the population. The recent adoption at Durban of the Protocol Relating to the Establishment of the Peace and Security 3 Council of the African Union, a standing decision- making body for conflict management and resolution in Africa, represents an important step forward in the setting up of a collective rapid-reaction security system designed to facilitate an appropriate and effective regional response in dealing with conflict situations and crises in Africa. It is also the appropriate tool to bolster the efforts of the Security Council in fulfilling its main responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security, in particularly in Africa. Mali has already begun to take the necessary measures to ratify that important instrument. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) also deserves ongoing support from the international community. Indeed, NEPAD offers the international community a historic opportunity to establish a credible partnership with Africa — a partnership founded on shared responsibility. Mali remains deeply concerned about the dramatic developments of the situation in the Middle East. The responsibility of the international community in dealing with that situation remains a commitment aimed at a global, just and lasting peace in the Middle East — a peace founded on Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the principle of land for peace. The creation of a Palestinian State — the central issue of the Middle East question — side by side with Israel, within safe and internationally recognized borders, in accordance with Security Council resolution 1397 (2002), would be the best guarantee of a just and lasting peace in the region. On a different subject, Mali accords priority to international cooperation on the basis of international law in the search for a lasting solution to conflicts that are of concern to the international community. This principle should apply to the handling of the Iraqi issue. The creation of the International Criminal Court, whose Statute was adopted in Rome, will not only make it possible to bring to justice those who commit the most serious crimes that infringe on the dignity of the human person, but also will provide an instrument of deterrence that contributes to the maintenance of international peace and security. In this respect, my country would like to reaffirm its full support for the fight against impunity and for full respect for human dignity. My country would like to appeal to those countries that have still not acceded to the Statute of the International Criminal Court to do so in order to strengthen the legitimacy of that institution. We are faced with a number of economic problems that are impeding the full growth of several of our States. The globalization of the economy has contributed greatly to a serious imbalance whose chief victims are the developing countries. It has led in particular to the impoverishment of a large number of people, to environmental degradation and to large-scale migration. External debt is a heavy burden for poor countries. The money used to service the debt has to come from the meagre resources of those countries, which seriously handicaps any attempt to re-launch growth and development. Despite the measures agreed to aimed at alleviating the debt burden for poor countries and allowing access to the markets of the countries of the North, the inequalities persist and poverty continues to worsen. New measures designed to establish closer links between debt- and poverty-reduction activities should continue. More flexible mechanisms need to be set up, however, in order to mobilize and utilize the resources generated by the application of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. In this respect, it is highly desirable for the developed countries and the international financial institutions to envisage measures capable of enabling the developing countries to move further towards sustainable development and to benefit from globalization. Fulfilling the development objectives set forth in the Millennium Declaration would bring that about. Mali warmly welcomes United Nations initiatives in support of the least developed countries, as exemplified by the Brussels Programme of Action. My country welcomes the holding in March 2002 at Monterrey of the International Conference on Financing for Development and, more recently, the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development. The conclusions and recommendations that came out of those two important meetings reflect the determination of the international community to commit itself in a resolute manner to achieving the objectives contained in the Millennium Declaration. 4 The Government of Mali also encourages institutions and Governments throughout the world to implement the relevant provisions contained in the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, since it is true that development policies and strategies intended to reduce poverty must necessarily take account of the problems of ageing. The democratization and restructuring of the main organs of the United Nations desired by the overwhelming majority of Member States, would greatly contribute to peace and security in the world. In particular, the democratization of the Security Council, whose structure no longer reflects the realities of today's world, would reflect our common determination to make it a more effective, more legitimate and more representative body. Our peoples are waiting. They are waiting for us to lead them forward towards rebirth in the new century, towards the building of a new world, rich in diversity, more just and more united. ﻿My delegation would like to say that the leadership shown by the President in presiding over this session makes us confident that our deliberations will continue in a spirit of dynamism and optimism for the development of international relations. Niger is very happy to convey to the President and to other members of the Bureau of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly our heartfelt congratulations. We remain convinced that President Kavan will follow up the remarkable work done by his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, with the same human qualities for the good of the international community as a whole. I wish to reiterate to our brother, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, the congratulations of the people of Niger for the prestige and effectiveness of his deeply appreciated work done in the service of humanity. I also wish to congratulate the Swiss Confederation on becoming a new Member, and Timor- Leste, as an imminent Member of the Organization. We are convinced that their participation will help enrich our debates. The American people have been mourning the tragic events of 11 September 2001 for a year now. The whole world has taken full measure of the threat that terrorism poses to peace and security. In Niger, we cannot stress the fact enough that, in order to be effective, the fight against terrorism must avoid taking a piecemeal approach. It must be long term and it must be conducted within the framework of international legality, which is epitomized by the United Nations. 22 Niger agrees with the provisions of Security Council resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001), and it is firmly committed to all subregional, regional and international initiatives aimed at combating terrorism in all its forms. At the same time, in order to succeed in the fight against terrorism, we must take into account the need to develop a more just and equitable economic and political order, since it has been shown that poverty, ignorance, injustice and all kinds of frustrations are factors that can produce blind extremism. Speaking of international peace and security, I am pleased to recall that Niger is a peaceful country that contributes actively to efforts to achieve general and complete disarmament. In that regard, I would like to point out that in that field, my country, pursuant to article 3 of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, has accepted an agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency, on a system of monitoring and safeguards for its uranium production. Regarding conventional weapons, Niger is happy that the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects has adopted a programme of action to combat that scourge. Our concerns were taken into account in the Bamako Declaration, but there is still work to be done, particularly in terms of technical and financial assistance measures to support disarmament programmes and reintegration programmes for former combatants. While it is true that no region of the world has been spared, there is no doubt that developing countries, particularly African countries, are the ones suffering the most from the devastating effects of the proliferation of light arms and small weapons in terms of their security, stability and development. That is why the bodies charged with monitoring, detecting and prosecuting infractions committed along those lines must be strengthened. Since 1994, Niger has had in place the National Commission for Collecting and Controlling Illicit Weapons, whose task is to help the political authorities at the highest level identify, design and put implement strategies to fight the proliferation of light weapons. In that context, the Government of Niger and the Department for Disarmament Affairs of our Organization are cooperating closely for the success of a project to collect illegal small arms and light weapons for the entire West African subregion. That is a part of the regional and subregional initiatives aimed at cutting off the illicit movement of small arms and light weapons. The peace that we wish for Niger is the same peace we wish for the rest of the world. That is why our country has always tried to make its modest contribution to settling conflicts that threaten peace and security in Africa and throughout the world. In spite of our limited resources, we have sent contingents to Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea-Bissau, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and civilian police officers to Haiti, Timor and Kosovo, to support the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the international community to restore and consolidate peace. The Government of Niger reaffirms its ongoing availability to send contingents to all United Nations peacekeeping operations. For a few months now the international community's attention has been focused on the Israeli- Palestinian conflict, whose peace process is now more paralysed than ever. Niger wants once again to reaffirm before the Assembly that a permanent settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict necessarily requires establishing the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, including the creation of an independent, sovereign and viable Palestinian State. On the basis of that conviction and in light of all kinds of false starts that have characterized the peace process in Palestine and the Middle East, Niger has made a sovereign decision to break off its diplomatic relations with Israel, which continues to deny the Palestinian people their legitimate right to self-determination. In Western Sahara, the Republic of Niger supports the efforts of the United Nations, on one hand, to enforce the settlement plan and, on the other hand, the relevant Security Council resolutions, in order to achieve a just and comprehensive settlement of the conflict. The laudable action of the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy, Mr. James Baker, should be followed up and supported until a positive conclusion is achieved, in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. In that context, we think that United Nations resolutions on Jammu and Kashmir must be speedily implemented so that the Kashmiri people can exercise their right to self-determination, which would allow to defuse that hotbed that involves two nuclear States — 23 India and Pakistan — and to avoid a serious threat to peace and security in the South Asia region. Therefore, Niger, a member of the contact group established by the Organization of the Islamic Conference, reiterates the appeal already made to the two parties to step up their negotiations in order to achieve a peaceful settlement of that conflict. Niger, like almost all African countries, faces a number of major challenges, which require the international community to provide the necessary support to help them in the search for solutions and in consolidating their economic renewal programme. From that standpoint, the developmental strategy that we have implemented gives priority to the culture and the promotion of good governance through a good- conduct mechanism and public affairs management that focuses on concerns such as transparency and civil society participation in all socio-economic decisions. This is the time to sincerely thanks all the bilateral and multilateral partners of Niger, particularly the United Nations institutions, for having been kind enough to continue to support the efforts of my country to create an institutional environment conducive to giving us social peace. That assistance is much appreciated and is necessary in this critical phase of the national construction process. In economic terms, never before has mankind had so much wealth and potential overall to generate common benefit. The positive world economic situation could give us hope to establish a more just economic order that would be more conducive to poverty reduction. In that regard, Niger welcomes the new partnership, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), and we believe that that programme, which crystallizes the hopes of our continent today, must be aimed at bringing together the necessary conditions and means for the effective participation of all African countries to the multidimensional developmental process within the framework of the African Union. Poverty is an affront that can no longer be tolerated in a world of abundance that has the means to vanquish it if there is the necessary political will. Today, we must note that 52 per cent of people who live on less than a dollar a day are found in Africa, which is the most indebted part of the world. A clear look must be taken at globalization, which in the 1990s gave rise to hopes but today is a source of concern because of the growing inequalities it is creating. In less than a year, we have discussed global problems four times, and we know the true remedies. We need a more elevated concept of international cooperation that draws its essence from strategic partnership. However, we can rejoice in the unanimous will that the international community affirmed in adopting the Johannesburg Plan of Action in September. The special session of the General Assembly devoted to HIV/AIDS, held in July 2001, demonstrated eloquently our degree of awareness of the terrible danger that that disease represents for the human species. The establishment of a special fund to fight AIDS is an important step in the world crusade against AIDS and other major epidemics. Progress must be made within the framework of initiatives undertaken by the world Summits held at Cairo, at Copenhagen and at Beijing. My country expects a greater degree of solidarity from the industrialized countries, particularly with regard to increasing the volume of official development assistance, a traditional development source. At the same time, we must unite our efforts to mobilize financial resources and to establish a humanitarian fund under United Nations auspices. It is indispensable and urgent that we reverse the trend of declining official development assistance, which, the Assembly will recall, is at its lowest level in 50 years. In fact, many difficulties have conspired to keep our countries at the bottom of the human development index. The state of poverty affects 63 per cent of our compatriots, and 34 per cent of them live below the extreme poverty line. Those populations, deprived of minimal basic social services, are the victims of a continued deterioration in their standard of living. The growing scarcity of financial resources has caused, among other things, a drastic decline in public investment, particularly in the social sectors, thus depriving 80 per cent of Niger's rural citizens of basic social benefits. Niger has decided to undertake measures to reverse that trend through its poverty reduction strategy, which was formulated and implemented after a participative process. Its goal is to substantially reduce the suffering of 80 per cent of the population. That strategy is now the only frame of reference for Niger's economic, financial and social policies. 24 This year, under the direct supervision of the President of the Republic, we have launched an extensive programme, called Special Programme 2001, which consists of building 1,000 classrooms, 1,000 dispensaries and 100 mini-dams to fight poverty. A good part — more than 80 per cent — of that operation has already been completed. I should also like to express again from this podium our deep appreciation for the support that our developmental partners have continued to give us for the implementation of our National Framework Programme to fight poverty, which Niger formulated and which is among our highest priorities. However, the crucial problem of African debt, which is annihilating all our development efforts, calls for an effort by the entire international community to help us to implement — without delay or any conditions other than those of good governance — satisfactory policies and mechanisms for its solution. The United Nations remains the best instrument for helping us realize the new world order to which we all aspire, so long as we carry forward the so-called quiet revolution begun by the Secretary-General four years ago. In conclusion, I should like to express the full confidence that Niger and its people place in the United Nations, which remains an institution of hope based on the principles of justice, equity, peace and progress.  ﻿One year has passed since the tragic events that took place on 11 September 2001 in the United States of America shook the world and demonstrated the magnitude and brutality of the global threat of international terrorism. During the past year the world became fully aware of the challenges that humankind was facing as we entered the twenty-first century. It was a year during which the international community came together and began to take decisive action against terrorism. While paying tribute to the memory of all of the victims of the terrorism that has left a bloody trail throughout the world, we must now take stock of the initial results of the joint anti-terrorist campaign and, most important, outline our objectives in strengthening the foundations of international security and stability. The most important outcome of the coming together of States to achieve common goals unprecedented since the Second World War is clear today. A broad international anti-terrorist coalition has been established and is actively functioning; it has already demonstrated its effectiveness in Afghanistan, a country that international terrorists of various affiliations had transformed into their own personal lair. Our common objective is not only to preserve the experience of interaction acquired within the framework of the coalition avoiding such unilateral actions as might undermine it but also to transform the anti-terrorist alliance into a supportive mechanism of effective security and cooperation for the new millennium. The United Nations must certainly be a pivotal element of such a mechanism. Indeed, the United Nations is called upon to continue to guarantee that, in combating new threats and challenges, the efforts of 20 the international community rest on a solid basis of international law. We must acknowledge and the past year has been very instructive in this regard that a great deal of hard work awaits us. It will be possible to put insurmountable obstacles in the way of fanatics and extremists who spread death and destruction only if we can reach general agreement on core issues relating to the world order. In this context, the role of the United Nations is, indeed, irreplaceable. The fact that the process of implementing the fundamental anti-terrorist resolution Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) is under way is of critical importance. That resolution is binding on all States, and we must now seek to achieve its unconditional implementation by all States. A priority task in the war on terrorism is the strengthening of its international legal framework. First and foremost, there is a need to ensure the genuinely universal character of existing anti-terrorist conventions. Having ratified the 1999 Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, Russia is now completing the process of accession to those international instruments. At the same time, we are seriously concerned about the lack of real progress in negotiating a comprehensive convention on combating terrorism and a convention on the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism. The well-known differences in the approaches of States to the provisions of such instruments could certainly be fully reconciled. They should not overshadow the objective, which is pressing for all of us, of establishing a legal basis to counter terrorism in all its manifestations a basis that would be in keeping with the realities of today's world. Russia is continuing to make resolute efforts to achieve that objective. It is the obligation of all States to protect the rights and freedoms of their citizens, the most important of these being the right to life. But it is precisely the lives of ordinary people that are threatened by terrorists, and each year new names are added to the list of victims. The international community can no longer tolerate this. It is our obligation to provide our citizens with the right to reliable protection against terrorism. Such an objective can be achieved only if all States agree on a range of specific measures under United Nations auspices. There is now a need to draw up an effective code to protect human rights against terrorism. Some of these measures have already been discussed by the international community, including in this forum. Others will require consideration in a broader context. The most important consideration, however, is that we should agree on a unified system of values and measures shared by all States. The results of the war against terrorism will be tangible only if we act in concert at all levels global, regional and national. The anti-terrorist cooperation mechanisms aimed at preventing the spread of terrorism in Central Asia, including those within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, are gaining momentum and thus provide clear evidence of that fact. There is a great deal of potential in the new partnership between Russia and the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The field of anti-terrorism is an integral part of our continuous dialogue and cooperation with the leading countries of the world, including the United States, China, India and the States members of the European Union. We are confident that the development of such interaction at many levels will promote a climate of confidence, security and cooperation in all parts of the world. The stability and credibility of the emerging international system of the twenty-first century will depend directly on the maintenance and strengthening of strategic stability. This fundamental objective was advanced by the signing, by the Presidents of Russia and of the United States, at their May meeting in Moscow, of the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty, which was a specific, major contribution by the leading nuclear Powers to nuclear disarmament. It is also very important to ensure the non- proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The danger of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons or their components falling into the irresponsible hands of terrorists increases international terrorism's potential to cause devastation. This means that there is a need to step up efforts to strengthen the non-proliferation regime for weapons of mass destruction and their delivery vehicles. 21 By acting jointly and responsibly, we have already achieved a great deal. When we speak about the establishment of new regimes for the non- proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and for arms control, we by no means wish to imply a renunciation of regimes and agreements already in effect. They are our shared protective mechanism a mechanism that is very reliable and has stood the test of time. Unjustified removal of the key elements of the international legal framework of non-proliferation can aggravate the international military and strategic situation and undermine global security. Furthermore, we should universalize' the most important agreements on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and on comprehensive nuclear test ban. The missile sphere needs a sustainable negotiating process aimed at concluding an international arrangement on a global regime of missile and missile technology non- proliferation. The prevention of the deployment of weapons in outer space forms an integral part of the non- proliferation process. Together with a number of our partners we suggest that a comprehensive agreement be worked out aimed at preserving outer space as a zone free from any kind of weapons. We are confident that this proposal serves the interests of all States, and expect that it will enjoy wide support. Since its establishment, the United Nations has been engaged in the settlement of regional conflicts. Those so-called local problems have long turned into one of the main threats to international stability. Terrorism, political extremism, and economic and social degradation are their customary companions. Certainly, the primary responsibility in any settlement rests with the relevant parties, but multilateral mechanisms have also repeatedly demonstrated their effectiveness in the restoration of peace and concord. A tangible progress made with the United Nations visible involvement in the post-Taliban reconstruction of Afghanistan is one of our common accomplishments. We can add to this the adoption by the United Nations Security Council of major practical decisions in support of a comprehensive settlement in the Middle East and the resolution of crises in a number of African countries. And yet, we are still far from a radical decrease in the number and intensity of armed conflicts. Hard work, requiring great human as well as material and financial resources, is awaiting us. But the most important here is the presence of a strong political will to implement the provisions of the United Nations Charter pertaining to the peaceful settlement of disputes. Experience shows that no matter how complex international crises and conflicts may be, whatever challenges and threats they may be fraught with, they can be settled with the aid of United Nations instruments and on the basis of international law. This fully applies to the situation around Iraq, which has long required political settlement in strict compliance with the Security Council resolutions. The entire international community benefits from a steady enhancement of the leading role of our Organization in peacemaking. We cannot relax our attention to this task. At all times and throughout the world, terrorism and extremism have tried to justify themselves with continuous social and economic instability and poverty. While recognizing the existence of these serious problems we should state most resolutely that terrorism does not and will not have any justification. At the same time, the creation of a sustainable and fair global financial and economic structure would, certainly, help combat many dangerous challenges to mankind. The latest major international forums the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterey, World Food Summit in Rome, World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg adopted decisions designed to uproot the causes of the most threatening disparities in the world. The next step is to implement the agreements we have reached. Equally sweeping are the tasks that face us in the field of environmental protection. Natural disasters that afflicted many regions of our planet this summer have demonstrated again that the solution of environmental issues cannot be put off unless we want to endanger the very survival of future generations. This sphere also depends on multilateral efforts that exclude the egoism of individual States. The initiative of Russian President Vladimir V. Putin on holding in autumn 2003 a World Conference on Climate Change in Moscow is designed to coordinate our efforts in this field. 22 A year ago, the Russian Federation called on the international community from the podium of the United Nations General Assembly to create a global system of counteraction to present-day threats and challenges that would be aimed at tackling real issues in the sphere of security and at meeting the vital interests of each and every State. This system would provide for long-term international stability and sustainable development. To be efficient, such a system needs a generally recognized coordinating centre capable of rallying the international community. And we do have such a centre the United Nations with its unique legitimacy, universality and experience. Our common task is to unite around the United Nations to provide it with the necessary potential and resources and to develop as much as possible its internal reserves. Today, we can state with satisfaction that the global system is already evolving and the beginning of this process is largely successful. We suggest that an additional impetus should be given to this process and a resolution to encourage a most prompt creation of a global system of counteraction to present-day threats and challenges should be adopted at this session of the General Assembly. By doing so, we will direct all States towards the joint elaboration of its general shape and parameters. This is even more relevant because some of its parameters are already visible. It is apparent that the system to be created must be: ñ Global, as modern challenges in the context of globalization pose a universal threat, and should be addressed at the global level. ñ Comprehensive in scope, as each of the modern threats bears a huge destructive potential and all such problems without exceptions should be embraced by the system. ñ Holistic in approach, as quite often the new threats and challenges are directly interrelated. ñ Universal in participation. Finally, the system should become a reflection of the international rule of law, as its power will be built on principles and regulations of international law, the United Nations Charter above all. We bear grave responsibility to future generations, and the model of world order we will establish is destined to influence the life on our planet for decades. As for Russia, we have made our choice. This is the choice in favour of a democratic, multi- polar world order, which would guarantee sustainable development and equal security for all States; a world order formed on the basis of the extensive structure of multilateral institutions integrated within the framework of the United Nations. We hope that the decisions of this General Assembly session will mark an important stage of this process. ﻿I am grateful for the opportunity to address the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. Allow me at the 23 outset to extend my warmest congratulations to Mr. Jan Kavan on his well-deserved election to the presidency. The tragic events of 11 September have made us reconsider our achievements, real values, and the links between poverty, development, sustainability, respect for human rights and real progress. Yet, the goals envisioned by the perpetrators of those crimes have certainly not been fulfilled. The world has become more united and more determined to fight terrorism as a global threat to the values of civilization. The result is increased cooperation among specialized services and bodies of different States, as well as international organizations. However, we must be prepared for a long and exhausting confrontation with this evil of our times. Last year we were all rightly focused on Afghanistan. Today we are concerned also about future steps regarding Iraq as a great threat to world stability and a shelter for terrorism. Fortunately, after a decade of being in focus as a crisis area, that South-Eastern Europe, the Balkans, along with Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the heart of the region, are no longer “CNN-able”, given the present growing stability. The time has come to salute the new image of my country and to start re-branding the perception of the region as a whole, which no longer fits anymore the “Balkan ghosts” stereotype. Great concerns such as Iraq, the Middle East and Kashmir should not let us forget that the Balkan region is bearing good news. We are all striving to finish the job of fully integrating the region into European democratic structures and values. Enormous efforts and achievements are behind us, but we have to be careful and patient until stability becomes self-sustainable through the building of jobs, justice and functioning institutions, which will hold together new democracy. In the light of last year's terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, our fragile State — the only European State where Muslims represent the majority religious group — was confronted with the heavy pressure of prejudice regarding a “clash between civilizations”. But, as members may know, I come from a State that represented a crossroads of different cultures and religions, where different civilizations lived for centuries in tolerance and mutual respect. Today we are even more convinced that all problems can be solved only through dialogue based on good political will. From that position we have joined the fight against terrorism and organized crime of all kinds. We have heightened our struggle against corruption by upgrading and strengthening our State institutions. We have placed the rule of law at the top of the agenda. Good work has been done, results have been achieved and we have thus proved that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a no-man's land. Building democratic institutions, economic development and the protection and promotion of human rights are more than ever at the top of our priorities. Following the recent tragic events and all the turbulent changes that Bosnia and Herzegovina has experienced, we strongly believe in the paradigm of democracy, development and peace as the pillars of progress and stability for my country, but also for the immediate neighbourhood and region as well. Only responsible and accountable governance can bring about necessary changes and progress for all. Unfortunately, we are still confronted with the heavy legacy of the past, and especially with the fact that the main culprits for the crimes committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, are at large. The moment they are brought to justice, it will be easier to reach our goals. That is why I would like at this juncture to emphasize the importance of cooperation by all sides concerned with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague. At the same time we are aware that democratization is sometimes a long process. Post- conflict peace-building is even more complex. But, we have set the vision for developing a safe, peaceful, stable and self-sustainable country, and we shall not stop half way. Today, we are a full member of the Council of Europe. More refugees and displaced persons have returned in recent times as compared to any other post-war period. In other words, in the last 18 months almost three times more properties, homes and apartments were given back to refugees and displaced persons all over Bosnia and Herzegovina than in the previous five years. Many roads, many villages, many roofs were built or repaired; many mosques and churches have also been built or repaired. The contribution of the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH), the Stabilization Force, the High Representative, the Peace Implementation Council, the Office of the United 24 Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) and others in the family of the international community present in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been substantial in achieving the present level of stability and reconstruction. We particularly recognize the value and the role of UNMIBH which is completing its mandate at the end of this year. The police reform and restructuring, with a view to meeting international standards of organizational capacity and institutional integrity, represents a clear success. The United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina was certainly one of the key players also in establishing the foundation for effective, democratic and sustainable law enforcement agencies, a fundamental element for the further development of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a multi- ethnic, tolerant and democratic State. We welcome the transfer of the remaining tasks in this area to the European Union Police Mission, and especially the extension of the European Union responsibility in the area of juridical reform as one of the basic pillars of self-sustainability, future democratization and the reform process. There should be no doubt that the United Nations has the potential to fulfil its new tasks and thus respond to the ever increasing challenges of the fast-changing world. It should provide leadership in building a prosperous world, founded no longer on force and threats, but on the rules of international law and respect for all rights, and rights for all. In that context I would like to underline that we support the further democratization and modernization of the United Nations. New tasks and challenges call increasing efficiency, cost rationalization and the equal geographic participation of States and peoples in the United Nations system. Bosnia and Herzegovina also supports the continuation of work on reforming the Security Council, adjusting its membership in accordance with carefully designed criteria, taking into account equal geographic representation but not jeopardizing the efficiency of that United Nations body. Allow me to briefly mention some of the priorities of today's Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina has in the past two years proved its determination to move from the position of passive aid recipient from the international community to the position of contributor to international efforts. The fact that we are in a position to consider the need or even the imperative of taking a more active and creative role, and thus a bigger share of responsibility, testifies to the trend of normalization of the situation in the country. Reconstruction is taking place and results are visible in the economy, social reforms, education, health care and so on. Economic reforms are directed towards the establishment of a single economic space and also with a view to setting up conditions for upgraded education and thus to offering the choice for our young generations to remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina and become the frontrunners of its development and future. We have almost fully completed the conditions set out in the European Union's road map, which we hope will soon open the process of a feasibility study for Bosnia and Herzegovina's signing of a stabilization and association agreement with the European Union. We have gone through the process of being the object of international efforts and are now the partner in the process of making an economically and institutionally self-sustainable State of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is only one phase in a process of finally becoming the owner of the changes in our country. In partnership with the international community, we are streamlining a common strategy for political stability, institution-building and an economic recovery programme as the precondition of overall sustainable development. The entire region, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, is entering a new stage of stability and the European integration process, but we still have to be on the alert. The ghosts of the past, segregation and wars are losing ground. In following the trials of war criminals before the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague, we are bearing witness to the hope that justice and the future will finally bury projects based on genocide. That is why we have to act on a daily basis against those who are trying to open the box of drawing new maps or calling for new wars in the region. So much energy and so many efforts of the local and international communities have been invested so far that we are not even allowed to consider anything but a strategy for success. Any type of hypothetical exit strategy of the international community can be based 25 only on a success strategy in building one multiethnic, democratic and European State of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I would like to express the gratitude of my Government to the international community for its devoted support towards long-lasting stability and development in the region. If the four million people of my country — Muslims, Orthodox Catholics, Jews and others who historically lived in tolerance, even in a non- democratic environment — cannot now live in a democratic and open society in the middle of Europe, then the logical question after 11 September is: How we can be consolidated and organized among the six billion people of our planet? Coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am driven by the force of optimism and the strength of vision shared by the overall majority of those who do not want to repeat the past, but are ready to fight for the future. Jobs, justice for all, solidarity and Europe, through reforms and strong state institutions, are the items on our agenda today. We are determined to turn these words into deeds.  ﻿Let me begin by conveying, on behalf of the Sri Lanka delegation, our sincere felicitations to Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as President of this fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly and our assurances of our fullest cooperation. I would also like to express appreciation for the exemplary manner in which Mr. Han Seung-soo, former Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea, guided the work of the fifty-sixth session. We also warmly welcome Switzerland as a new Member of the Organization, and look forward also to welcoming East Timor. Our discussions and debates in this Assembly often reach great heights and seek grand objectives, but ultimately they are about the future lives, well-being and security of the people we are privileged to represent. It is with such thoughts in my mind that I recall the horrendous events of 11 September 2001, which claimed the lives of so many Americans and people of other nationalities from all over the world. As we are only too painfully aware, they are not the only victims of terror. The attack confirmed what we in Sri Lanka have long known: terrorism has long been globalized. As President Bush acknowledged on 11 March 2002, “September 11 was not the beginning of global terror, but it was the beginning of the world's concerted response.” We in Sri Lanka perhaps know better than most the tragedies that conflict and terrorism create. My own country has been ravaged by a 20-year conflict, which has caused more than 65,000 deaths. Eight hundred thousand people are internally displaced. Tragic stories abound: children who will never see their fathers return home; mothers who have lost their sons; and children who, even today, innocently step on anti-personnel 2 mines. I have talked to the disabled soldiers and the dispossessed, the people who have no homes, and those who return to the north-east of our country to find war- torn ruins and once productive fields sown with land mines. The election victory last December of the Government I represent was a clear national mandate to end the conflict in the north-east. The Government has since moved swiftly towards the fulfilment of that mandate. A ceasefire with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was signed on 22 February this year. The ceasefire has held. Confidence-building measures have encouraged the free movement of people throughout the country and have revived economic activity. Peace talks with the LTTE, facilitated by Norway, began two days ago in Sattahip, Thailand. The Sri Lanka Government has unilaterally suspended the proscription of the LTTE in order to facilitate the talks, to give peace a chance, and to give the LTTE a chance for peace. A flexible approach is necessary in the negotiations, combining a warm heart with a cool head. An understanding of the other side, their aspirations and their concerns, is essential. Negotiations are complex and will take time. In the early stages of our talks with the LTTE, we are trying to resolve some of the immediate practical needs of the people in order to bring relief and normalcy to our society. Economic reconstruction and development of the affected areas will be a deciding factor in sustaining the momentum of political negotiations. Development is part of the healing process in a wounded, divided society. The pressing day-to-day problems of the people need to be settled as soon as possible. Indeed, at the discussions in Thailand, there was strong endorsement of the urgent need for resources to ensure the early dividends of the peace process. The role played by Norway in facilitating that process and, most recently, at the peace talks is deeply appreciated. I extend my sincere thanks to Norway for all its efforts. Already, following the ceasefire, there are signs of people enjoying their rediscovered freedom. The people want more. Exchange visits between school children and other groups from the south and from the north have revealed to many that the other side is not so different after all. Last week our capital, Colombo, came to a standstill as people from all over the country, from every religion and every ethnic group in society, flocked to a peace rally. Those are all encouraging signs. But with them comes a risk. The imperative of peace is growing. The people demand peace, and the politicians and negotiators on both sides had better deliver. Peace is people-driven. The conflict had dragged our economy to near bankruptcy, and last year, for the first time in independent Sri Lanka, we recorded negative growth. Resources must flow into developing the areas ravaged by war. Opportunities must be created. The momentum of growth must be re-established. The people want to see normalcy restored, not tomorrow but today. The farmers want their damaged irrigation canals repaired today; their harvest cannot be delayed until a final agreement is reached. This imperative is driven even more by young people among the Sri Lankan armed forces and the cadres of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, whose weapons lie silent. Without international support and help with resources to build a peace dividend, the gloss on peace can be dulled. With the recreation of opportunities for people and for growth, politicians and negotiators will be driven even harder to stabilize, advance and sustain the peace. From there, we can approach the complex constitutional issues. Those questions will take time. We believe that the way forward is through a clearly representative interim administration within a united Sri Lanka in which the rights of all communities, Tamil, Muslim and Sinhalese, are safeguarded. That will allow us to carry forward an initiative to empower local people by decentralizing governmental authority and by establishing five regional economic development zones. Through such initiatives, we intend to encourage local people to be responsible for driving economic growth in their own regions. Those measures, along with the liberalization and deregulation of our economy, will generate wealth. Meanwhile, there is a pressing, immediate security issue. Hundreds of thousands of mines need to be removed from tracts of land to make them safe and arable in order for the internally displaced persons to return to their homes and their farms. Sri Lanka is reviewing its position on the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel mines with a view to becoming a party to it as confidence in peace grows. We are grateful for the help we are receiving from the United Nations, members of the international community and non- 3 governmental organizations in our demining programme. My Government is resolved to ensure that the people of the north and east of our Republic should also enjoy the same security and the same quality of life, democratic governance and human rights which people in other parts of the country enjoy. Sri Lanka has a high rating on the Human Development Index of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Our per capita income figures and our life expectancy and our literacy rates are among the highest in the region. Peace will further enhance all that, but its dividend must be credited to all the shareholders in Sri Lanka's future. Sri Lanka welcomes the support that our peace process has received from members of the international community and from the United Nations. On a request made by me to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, a United Nations inter-agency needs assessment team visited Sri Lanka in April and May of this year. The team completed a strategic overview of the current situation, which can guide immediate and mid- to long-term action by United Nations agencies in Sri Lanka. We thank the Secretary-General for his efforts. Quickening the pace of peace and having its dividends credited directly and urgently to the people are imperative. We are grateful to all those who are assisting us in Quick Impact Projects. The implementation of those projects without delay will help peace take root, involve people in the affected areas in their economic and social recovery and ease the way for higher stages of development. Throughout its long history, there have been flattering descriptions of Sri Lanka — centuries before our Tourist Board promoted the serenity of the island. The ancient Arabs and mediaeval Europeans called our island paradise. If in the course of our recent conflict some of the quality of paradise has been lost, then surely paradise must be regained. Regaining Sri Lanka is much more than a slogan, it is a practical, doable strategy, in which we invite the international community to participate. While seeking a negotiated solution to our own conflict, Sri Lanka strongly supports negotiating a settlement of the Israel-Palestine conflict. We have long supported a responsible peace process which would lead to the acceptance of two States, Israel and Palestine, prospering in conditions of peace and security, as neighbours, within secure and recognized borders. We urge the resumption of a serious dialogue between Israel and Palestine as a prelude to sustained negotiations. In Sri Lanka, dialogue and negotiations are turning around a long, drawn-out conflict. With respect to those who were responsible for 11 September, the approach needs to be different. No cause justifies the killing of innocent people. Global terrorism must be eradicated, whatever its manifestation and wherever it occurs. We support a comprehensive approach to international terrorism through the General Assembly's Ad Hoc Committee on Terrorism. Terrorism has affected virtually all the countries of South Asia. A meeting in Sri Lanka will soon draft an additional protocol to the Regional Convention on Suppression of Terrorism of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation. The protocol would update the Convention, inter alia to meet the obligations devolving on member States in respect of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. The United Nations has been a source of good since its inception. It is the forum in which there is an opportunity for interaction and possible reconciliation among complex, competing and even confrontational concerns. Under the Secretary-General's initiative of the Global Compact, it provides for the launching and navigation of positive partnerships between the corporate and State sectors. We also look forward to the implementation of decisions taken at the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey. We welcome the Millennium Challenge Account as an outcome of that Conference to assist countries committed to democratic norms and good governance, to the engagement of the private sector and to the involvement of the people in the process of development. In Sri Lanka, we intend to re-establish an investment-friendly country with an efficient bureaucracy and a thriving private sector. On this visit to the United States, I have brought a team from my industrial sector to talk to United States businessmen. We are grateful to the United Nations for helping my Government to organize an investment promotion forum in the United States tomorrow with the 4 participation of members of our private sector, who will interact with their counterparts here. Those “close encounters of the business kind” will provide insight into the opportunities for collaborative economic and development ventures in Sri Lanka as we move forward on the peace front. Investment in peace makes sound political and economic sense for both Sri Lanka and its partners abroad. Growth in Sri Lanka will be good for everyone. Across Sri Lanka, the people continue to build the only true peace we can hope for. Without fanfare, without politicians or media, they are quietly going about their business, finding old friends and building new relationships. Mistrust and suspicion are slowly melting away as people talk and share past experiences. The hatred in some hearts will take a little longer to dispel. But even that will be overcome in time by the deep desire for weapons to be destroyed, mines to be cleared and the sound of laughter to be heard once again. Trusting the people, whether it be for the consolidation of peace or the pursuit of development, is the best policy. We are beholden to the people we work for, whether they be clients or customers or shareholders or voters.  ﻿Let me at the outset, on behalf of the Algerian delegation, congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the current session of the General Assembly. This is a tribute to your personal qualities and to your country, with which my own has good relations of friendship and cooperation. I should like also to congratulate Switzerland on its admission to full membership in our Organization. I am sure that that country, so deeply attached to neutrality in international affairs, will offer a valuable contribution to our common quest for world peace, at a time when this peace is so seriously threatened, inter alia by international terrorism. I therefore welcome the Swiss delegation to the Assembly and wish it every success in its work here with us. Our Assembly will also shortly be admitting to full membership in the United Nations the new State of Timor-Leste. We welcome its brand-new independence. The Timorese people have freely chosen, through the exercise of their right to self-determination, to be the masters of their own fate. We congratulate them once again for having stood firm, and we welcome them and wish them a future of progress, prosperity and peace. It has been two years now since the historic Millennium Declaration was adopted. In offering a collective response, in a spirit of solidarity, to the challenges facing the world in the areas of peace, security and the eradication of poverty, the international community took a responsible approach to the situation that, given the subsequent events that disrupted and shook the world, make that Declaration seem to have foreshadowed the present. The tragic events of 11 September 2001, which we commemorated just a few days ago, highlighted the need for a collective response to this global threat of terrorism. For a decade, Algeria has had to face alone this scourge of the modern age. We are glad that there is now greater awareness of this phenomenon within the international community and of the measures that need to be taken to address it. 2 Algeria participated in the efforts to conclude the conventions to combat terrorism adopted within the various regional African, Arab and Islamic organizations of which Algeria is a member. Those conventions made a significant contribution to strengthening the international legal framework essential for any action for effective international cooperation in combating terrorism. We believe that it is a matter of urgency to adopt a comprehensive convention on combating terrorism, which would provide a normative framework for bringing together the various cooperation agreements in the anti-terrorist struggle. We must go beyond our differences in respect of how we define terrorism in seeking one acceptable to all, avoiding ambiguities that we all condemn. More specifically, we reject any association between Islam and terrorist activities. We cannot equate terrorism with the fight by people who are deprived of their rights an unequal fight that they are waging with all the resources and weapons available to them. Because of the excesses committed by the Israeli occupiers, the international community has defined the conditions necessary to bring back a just and lasting peace in Palestine and in the Middle East. The conditions include the rejection of violence, the resumption of negotiations based on the principle of land for peace, and a cardinal point the confirmation of the right of the Palestinian people to establish a State within recognized and secure borders, and its corollary, two States Palestinian and Israeli living in peace, side by side. The Beirut Arab initiative offered the outline for such a settlement, based on international law and the principle of land for peace. That Arab initiative was welcomed by the United Nations and the co-sponsors of the peace process, and it breathed new life into a peace process that had been languishing. Algeria, today as in the past, stands side by side with the Palestinian people in their exemplary struggle for freedom and dignity, which can succeed only when the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people are recognized, including its right to the establishment of an independent State, with Al- Quds as its capital, and a complete Israeli withdrawal from all Arab territories occupied since 1967. That is the only way to bring peace, stability and security back to the sensitive region of the Middle East. In that same region, in Iraq, positive developments have just occurred which give grounds for hope that the logic of war will finally be replaced by the logic of peace. In agreeing to the return to its territory of United Nations inspectors, Iraq has demonstrated that it is committed to cooperating with the international community so that there can be definitive closure on the question of weapons of mass destruction. That was a courageous decision by the Iraqi Government, which must logically lead to the definitive lifting of sanctions, which have hurt the Iraqi people so badly, and to bringing back peace and security to that country and to the region as a whole, in strict respect of the sovereignty and unity of the Iraqi people and of the territorial integrity of its national territory. Close by Algeria, in Western Sahara, 27 years after the withdrawal of the former colonial Power, the Sahrawi people are still demanding their inalienable right to self-determination, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and to the resolutions that the General Assembly has been adopting and confirming year after year, since it called in 1966 for the decolonization of the territory and for self- determination for the people through a referendum. The international community cannot remain indifferent to the fate of that people, nor can it accept that the full implementation of the Settlement Plan and of the Huston agreements be postponed time and again. Algeria, a neighbour to the two brotherly peoples of Morocco and Western Sahara, will continue to do its utmost in the service of international peace and of stability and unity in the subregion. Algeria has fully supported the efforts made by the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy, and we have made a significant contribution to the settlement of the conflict. The United Nations and the Security Council in particular is dealing with the issue of Western Sahara. Algeria hopes that its relationships with its neighbours will not be jeopardized by this dispute and that the Arab Maghreb Union will be able to resume its activities and develop fruitful cooperation with all the countries in the region. This session is taking place at a time when globalization is accelerating and an information and communication technologies revolution is under way. 3 Questions continue to arise about the benefits and challenges of this process and the risks of marginalization and exclusion that it poses for the developing countries, particularly in Africa. This session is of particular significance because it is taking place in the immediate aftermath of the International Conference on Financing for Development and the World Summit on Sustainable Development, two events that could prove decisive for the future of international cooperation for sustainable, balanced and equitable development. While the process that was launched at Monterrey identified how financing is to be mobilized and financial and technical cooperation for development strengthened, the Johannesburg Summit focused on the priority areas of combating poverty and ensuring sustainable development and international cooperation. The right to development must be the main focus of our concern and efforts to strengthen international cooperation through various innovative partnerships between the North and the South, based on the sharing of responsibilities and benefits. In this connection, I would like to mention the signing this year of the Association Agreement between Algeria and the European Union. That Agreement will provide the foundation for launching a genuine, mutually beneficial partnership. Problems relating to internationalizing foreign direct investment flows as much as possible, significantly increasing official development assistance, managing the debt burden, opening markets to the products of the South and restructuring the international financial institutions to allow for greater participation by developing countries clearly remain our major concerns, and we need to find solutions to them quickly. Given the serious crises that are convulsing the world, the establishment of a more equitable international economic and trade order is becoming increasingly important, and will require greater political will on the part of the international community. The outcome of the most recent World Trade Organization meeting at Doha provided us with an opportunity to set up a more open and transparent multilateral trading system to enable developing countries to increase their share of international trade. I would also like to refer to the bilateral and multilateral initiatives that have been undertaken to assist developing countries, in particular the least developed among them. I hope that such initiatives will be followed up with other specific steps that can give real meaning to international solidarity and to sustained efforts aimed at building a more humanistic world, free from the seeds of instability and violence. The world is changing very quickly, resulting in enormous uncertainty about the future of the human race. We note the tendency, in the light of such dangers, to move towards international solidarity, not only in the area of combating terrorism, but also in fighting poverty and preserving the environment. The importance of the role played by the United Nations in finding solutions to the problems facing all of our peoples is becoming increasingly clear. In a world at risk, this Organization is, indeed, irreplaceable, because it symbolizes our common commitment to fight for the survival of humankind. The achievements of the United Nations are impressive in the areas of promoting peace and security, economic cooperation, social progress, humanitarian activities and the development of international law. The fact that such achievements have been made despite difficulties and inadequate resources is an indication of what the system would be capable of were it fully supported by all Member States. Efforts to streamline United Nations activities, improve system-wide coordination and ensure coherence in its actions augur well for the enhancement, greater credibility and effectiveness of the Organization. I should like to pay tribute to the leadership of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in this undertaking, which will require a greater commitment on the part of States as well as the provision of more resources. Strengthening the credibility and effectiveness of the United Nations will also require structural reform so as to enable it to better reflect the new face of international society and deal with all of the challenges facing humankind. In this new millennium, the world will not be able to manage without the United Nations. An Organization that is in tune with the requirements of change in the world today is an indispensable tool in 4 helping us to build peace and comprehensive sustainable development. ﻿Over the Assembly hangs a cloud of uncertainty — indeed, of unease — about the future of multilateralism and of international relations generally. The tragedy of 11 September 2001, which we commemorated just three days ago, has so numbed our minds that we have yet to fully understand its consequences. Therefore, it is meet that, as a family of nations, we should not only remember the disaster, but also seek to learn from it how we can best restore to mankind some measure of faith and hope in our common humanity. My delegation is pleased to see Mr. Jan Kavan presiding over the Assembly, since, as the representative of a country that has known the horror of war, he will undoubtedly inspire us to find our way forward. In wishing his presidency well, I would also like to place on record our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea for 21 guiding us through a most difficult and challenging time. Our appreciation and thanks must also extend to the Secretary-General, who, throughout these past months, has helped to sustain our commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. We are pleased to welcome Switzerland as a full member of the family of nations, and we look forward to doing the same for East Timor when it takes its place among us. The international system is now plagued by dangerous instability which threatens to undermine — if not to destroy — many of our States. Not only do we face terrorism, with its horrific violence, but we must also live with other manifestations of terror in the form of poverty, hunger and disease, which, although more silent, are no less deadly. Conflict, both within and among States, clearly demonstrates how poorly an economy functions without political and social cohesion. Divisions that rend the fabric of our societies — divisions that derive ultimately from ethnicity and race — are not only severely counterproductive to our attempts to better the commonweal, but preclude the emergence of the durable peace and tranquillity without which we will never be able to prosper. Recent global conferences have focused our attention on the importance of a rights-based approach to social inclusion. However, commitment to inclusive policies rests not only with States but with civil society as a whole. Poverty and underdevelopment are now easily exploited by some elements in our societies to undermine the authority of democratically elected Governments and to exacerbate ethnic and other tensions. This instability is further compounded by the rampant trade in illegal drugs and arms, with its attendant corruption and violence, which daily tests the legal, financial, security and governance capabilities of most small States. The social contract between the State and its citizens has been seriously jeopardized by these new political developments. Greater national endeavours and international solidarity are now necessary if we are to confront these challenges and ensure the economic and social progress of our peoples. Old conflicts persist, denying entire populations the opportunity to live in peace and security. The situation in the Middle East must be of special concern to us all, since it threatens to become a wider conflict. The right of the Palestinian people to national self- determination — a right guaranteed by international law — must be upheld if there is to be a just and lasting solution to the region's problems. The tensions which exist in India-Pakistan relations with regard to Kashmir should not be allowed to persist, given the risk of calamitous nuclear conflict. As a country which is committed to the pacific settlement of disputes and as a friend of those two important countries of Asia, from which many of our own ancestors originated, Guyana wishes to encourage them to continue their search for a definitive solution. Global instability results also from our failure to implement the Agenda for Development. After more than a decade of development-related conferences, we have yet to grasp fully the implications for international cooperation of an increasingly interdependent world and a globalized economy. The recent meetings in Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg brought the international community full circle in assessing the effectiveness of global collective action aimed at the realization of the millennium development goals and the eradication of poverty. We should now be fully persuaded that global action remains indispensable to the development process. What is less clear, however, is the relationship that should underlie such action, which continues to be a daunting challenge. To what extent can equality be achieved in a system of skewed economic and military power? Will sovereignty ever subject itself to the imperatives of the global good? How can trustworthy procedures be found for international intervention in situations characterized by the threat of collapse of national social and economic structures? What more can be done so that the current international trading system is beneficial for all States, not for only a select few? How can the policies of the Bretton Woods institutions be made more responsive to the concerns and needs of the developing countries in particular? I know that there are no easy answers to these questions. Indeed, each international conference and every general debate that takes place in this Assembly has made us more aware of how difficult it is to find a consensual approach to these issues. Dialogue and engagement are continuously balanced against hasty attempts to achieve short-term goals. Yet the 22 imperative of global stability — both political and economic — requires a greater symbiotic relationship among States. The increased permeability of borders, which has made all countries vulnerable to contagion from outside, is a reality which we cannot ignore. Meanwhile, the debate on the benefits of globalization is becoming increasingly polarized. Despite their own best efforts at reform and restructuring, many developing countries have not really seen any significant improvement in their economic and social condition. The growth rate of most developing countries was 2 per cent lower in the 1990s than it was in the oil crisis years of the 1970s. Similarly, although the number of people living in extreme poverty, on less than one dollar a day, has reportedly decreased the past 15 years, those living on less than two dollars a day — an insignificant sum — has increased. Thus, poverty figures have in effect remained high, despite an improvement in world income over the past decade by an average of 2.5 per cent annually. The situation has been especially difficult for small States. Over the past 10 years, the States members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), of which we are one, have been pursuing aggressive socio-economic reform measures designed to enhance the region's economic competitiveness so as to benefit from globalization. The results have generally been disappointing, in large part due to the small size, and the geographic location of the CARICOM countries, as well as their limited natural resource base and high dependence on international trade, all of which make their economies vulnerable to changes in the global economy. The situation is further aggravated by the high incidence of HIV/AIDS — the second highest in the world. Small States such as ours in the Caribbean require development cooperation that is based on mutual trust and the fulfilment of commitments. One major step in this direction should be to focus on new ways of balancing equity, economics and ecology in order to create opportunities for small economies without inflicting disillusionment and despair. Every effort should also be made to ensure the full implementation of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative so as to liquidate the debt burden in the poorest countries. To address the challenge of development, an integrated strategy must be found to address all the different elements of the problem. Now — especially since Monterrey — it is fashionable to speak of partnership for sustainable development. Indeed, partnership, if properly conceived and implemented, can serve to eradicate poverty and promote economic growth. However, as the President of Guyana stated at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, in Johannesburg, if it is to succeed, partnership between States must be based not on double standards but on mutual trust and respect and on the interests of all parties. Public/private-sector partnerships must be founded on equity and transparency, with full regard to the laws of our countries. Finally, partnerships with multilateral financial institutions must be informed more by an understanding of the situation in our countries and less by a doctrinaire approach to policy-making. To quote the President directly, “Progress will only come if there is an enlightened understanding of partnership.” Concerned by the inadequacy of past development models and the trend towards leaving development matters largely to market forces, Guyana has sought to promote at the United Nations the concept of a new global human order based on a genuine partnership for cooperation. By addressing the problems of peace and development in a holistic manner, this “concordat” would provide developing countries with the structural, strategic and long-term support that they need. Guyana hopes to build upon resolution 55/48 in the coming months with the aim of bringing greater predictability and stability to international development cooperation. It is clear that the period ahead of us is fraught with difficulty, and that some of the challenges are historically unprecedented in scale. The instability and uncertainty by which so many societies around the world are afflicted must be attended to if we are to avoid failure. We must therefore ready the United Nations, the most important and most widely supported international governmental organization in existence, to address these problems. There is simply nowhere else to take them.  ﻿Proud as we are that our small island nation of Tuvalu is a member of this great family of nations, first we must give thanks to God Almighty for his love and for allowing us all to participate in this general debate. Let me also extend my delegation's sincere appreciation to the Government of our host country, the United States of America, for its warm hospitality and support. Tuvalu warmly congratulates you, Sir, on your election to the high office and commends highly the outgoing President for his leadership, especially during a very challenging year for the Organization. Tuvalu also wishes to reaffirm its strong confidence in the Secretary-General. In addition, we warmly congratulate Switzerland on its entry into the United Nations, and we welcome membership of East Timor later on in this session. Tuvalu sincerely joins, both in spirit and hearts, in the remembrance of the great loss, particularly of innocent human lives, following the terrorist attacks on American soil last year. We pray for the victims' families and for full recovery in restoring their lives. Within our own Organization, we are proud that of this turmoil the United Nations has come out ever stronger with the resolve to combat international terrorism. In Tuvalu and many island countries in the Pacific, we know our own unique vulnerability is also fertile ground to forces of terror that threaten the security and survival of the islands. It is in this regard that Tuvalu is committed to the Pacific Islands Forum Declarations on regional security, highlighted in the Forum Communiqué, which is circulated as a United Nations paper. In the same spirit, last year Tuvalu pledged its commitment to the United Nations anti- terrorism resolutions, and we still do. But we also need both technical and financial assistance from the international community to enable us to fulfil our international obligations. Joining and being part of the United Nations is never easy, particularly for a small and poorly resourced island country such as Tuvalu. Asserting our place here competes with the many other priorities of nation-building. However, our presence here is proof of our belief all along since our independence that, through the United Nations principle of equal participation, our voice on our security and development concerns will be advocated and better heard. 2 Although new, Tuvalu supports the reforms being undertaken in the Organization to streamline and ensure efficiency. In particular, it supports initiatives that have been developed on reforms in the Security Council and in the work of the Secretariat, and it is our strong view that they warrant proper support. It is also our view that equitable representation more reflective of the diversity in the United Nations membership, both in the staffing of United Nations Secretariat and in its various working committees, needs to be properly considered. As a peace-loving nation, Tuvalu believes that the paramount mission of the United Nations must remain the maintenance of peace and security for all nations of the world, as clearly articulated in the preamble to the United Nations Charter. However, a long outstanding issue that also warrants serious consideration is the question of the Republic of China on Taiwan. This country has a population of 23 million people, a well- defined territory and an established democratic system of Government, and is a responsible international actor in world trade and relations. It is, therefore, our strong opinion that the right to self-determination of the people of the Republic of China and to join the United Nations should be urgently addressed. The United Nations cannot be said to be universal, nor can global peace be assured, until the Republic of China issue is properly resolved. As we progress in the new century, however, we are increasingly challenged by the many changes that are taking place. Never before has the human race faced such complex challenges. We are in a world where the concept of globalization is in the media every day. Yet while we share a world where trade, communications and travel appear to have made us a single global community, large parts of the world continue to suffer from poverty, marginalization and environmental decline. We are far from being a cohesive global community. Unfortunately, Tuvalu and many small island developing States are in a particularly weak position to participate fully and take advantage of the opportunities of globalization. There is a genuine need for special assistance to enhance our capacity in this regard. On the issue of conflict prevention, Tuvalu, like other vulnerable small island nations, is particularly weary of conflicts and wars. It is our humble view that, all too often, countries seem compelled to resort to military and violent action in order to resolve conflicts rather than seek to understand the root causes of these conflicts. We strongly feel this approach needs careful reconsideration. The build-up of arms and massive expenditure on so-called defence completely overshadow all efforts to resolve the underlying causes of poverty, unrest and instability. For us to survive as an international community we must reverse this trend. We must also learn to listen to each other. In this respect, Tuvalu firmly believes that we must place greater faith in the United Nations as the forum for meaningfully addressing poverty, conflicts and instability and the effects of environmental degradation. It is here, in the common house of the human family, where countries should come, put down their arms, listen to each other and resolve their differences together. We believe that this is the only way forward to ensuring long-lasting world peace, security and sustainable development. Tuvalu agrees with the importance of sustainable development and subscribes to the goals espoused in the Millennium Declaration, particularly those on poverty eradication. It also welcomes the holding of the United Nations international conferences, including, those on the rights of the child, financing for development and the review of the implementation of Agenda 21 through the World Summit on Sustainable Development. In addition, Tuvalu also appreciates commitments made recently to replenish the Global Environment Facility (GEF), so vitally important to many countries, especially to Small Island Developing States. However, while Tuvalu appreciates the considerations for small island developing States in the various processes, we appeal for more concrete recognition, particularly by the donor community, of our special case so that we can cope with the challenges that we face, particularly with regards to capacity-building through quality education and health, access to fresh water and affordable energy, infrastructures and sanitation. Without additional and adequate resources, partnership initiatives arising from those processes will have no real meaning, especially for those groups that are most in need, such as women, children and people in rural and outer island areas. It need not be repeated, but for Tuvalu, development aid is indispensable to development. For us, official development assistance (ODA) is the development budget. The maintenance of vital services 3 to our people through innovative partnerships, such as the Tuvalu Trust Fund, for example, would not have been possible without ODA. I would like at this juncture to acknowledge with great sincerity Tuvalu's appreciation of all its development partners, particularly our traditional donors, old and new, such as Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Japan, the European Union and the Republic of China on Taiwan. For our part, having progressed as a sovereign nation with relative peace and stability over the past twenty-four years, Tuvalu is strongly committed to the United Nations principle of good governance. The recently elected Government of Tuvalu is fully committed to the principles of good governance, democracy and respect for the rule of law. It is also committed to accountability and transparency, in harmony with Christian values and traditional and cultural norms. As in the past, we are also committed to the prudent management of finances and to further work on reforms to improve our systems. Tuvalu is surrounded by the huge Pacific Ocean and is well aware, both of its rights to its vast marine resources and also of its responsibility to ensure the proper and sustainable management of the potentials of the ocean. We therefore fully associate ourselves with the Pacific Islands Forum's Regional Ocean Policy recently adopted by our leaders. Finally, peace, security and long-term livelihood for the world will have no meaning to us in Tuvalu in the absence of serious actions to address the adverse and devastating effects of global warming. At no more than three meters above sea level, Tuvalu is particularly exposed to those effects. Indeed our people are already migrating to escape. We are already suffering from the consequences of what world authorities on climate change have consistently been warning us. Only two weeks ago, a period when the weather was normal and calm and the tide was low, unusually big waves suddenly crashed ashore and flooded most parts of the capital island. In the event that the situation is not reversed, where does the international community think the Tuvalu people can hide from the onslaught of sea-level rise? Taking us in as environmental refugees is not what Tuvalu is after in the long run. We want the islands of Tuvalu and our nation to remain permanently and not to be submerged as a result of the greed and uncontrolled consumption of industrialized countries. We want our children to grow up the way we grew up in our own islands and in our own culture. We once again appeal to the industrialized countries, particularly those who have not done so, to urgently ratify and to fully implement the Kyoto Protocol and to provide concrete support in all our adaptation efforts to cope with the effects of climate change and sea-level rise. Tuvalu, having little or nothing to do with the causes, cannot be left on its own to pay the price. We must all work together. May God bless you all, and God bless the United Nations.  ﻿At the outset, I should like to express my sincere 4 congratulations, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We are fully confident that your renowned diplomatic experience will lead to the success of this important session's deliberations and to the adoption of resolutions and recommendations that are proportionate to the current international challenges. I should be remiss if I failed to express my appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his tireless efforts to revitalize the role of the General Assembly. I should also like to express, on behalf of the people and the Government of the Sudan, sincere congratulations to the people and the Government of Switzerland on its accession to the Organization. In addition, I wish to take this opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the people and the Government of the Sudan, the State of East Timor on its coming admission as a Member of the United Nations. A full year has passed since the deplorable terrorist events of 11 September, which terrified this city, site of the Organization's Headquarters, where the flags of all our countries fly and where we meet to deliberate on peace, security and justice. The anniversary of the World Trade Center tragedy is an occasion to strengthen international solidarity and resolve to combat terrorism, prompting us to reaffirm our conviction that terrorism is an elusive enemy that knows no religion, ethnicity or homeland. It is a challenge that should be met with a collective international effort. The war on terrorism should be waged with close national, regional and international cooperation and coordination, in conformity with the principles of international law and under the umbrella of the United Nations. The Sudan, while reiterating its commitment to, participation in and support for the international campaign against terrorism, would like to draw the attention of the international community to the feelings of anxiety expressed in various parts of the world at the derailment of the campaign, whose path and objectives are no longer on target, and at its manipulation by the forces of extremism and advocates of confrontation among civilizations and cultures. The situation in the Arab and Islamic world in general, and in the Middle East in particular, reflects that anxiety and those feelings. Therefore, we in the Sudan, current Chair of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, reaffirm our rejection and denunciation of that derailment and urge that the international campaign against terrorism comply with the rules of international law. We strongly support the call of His Excellency Mr. Hosni Mubarak, President of Egypt, for the convening of an international conference on terrorism. The report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization, submitted to the current session, reflects the desire of the world's countries to strengthen cooperation, to alleviate poverty, to eliminate the debt burden and to resolve conflicts in order to create a world of justice and equality, free of grievances, injustice, hatred, bigotry, double standards, conspiracies and politicization, which run counter to the noble objectives of protecting and enhancing human rights. Sudan reaffirms its firm conviction that the United Nations remains the ideal mechanism for achieving international cooperation. Therefore, Sudan reaffirms its readiness to cooperate fully in all areas with United Nations organs. Based on its conviction, Sudan calls for the revitalization of all United Nations organs and urges that top priority be accorded the Security Council and the General Assembly in that regard. During the past year, Sudan's relations with the United Nations made great progress, a progress crowned by the important and successful visit of Secretary-General Kofi Annan to Khartoum. The visit was a good opportunity for him to see our country's positive development in all fields. The visit strengthened the cooperation between the Sudan and the international Organization. This year has also seen visits to the Sudan by the Directors-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) and the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). The Sudan is maintaining good channels of communication and coordination with the United Nations and its specialized agencies through cooperation, on the basis of the fundamental principles of its foreign policy, including the principle of openness at the regional and international levels, and in consonance with its strong commitment to active participation in all activities aimed at carrying out the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. The United Nations Charter calls for the important peaceful resolution of disputes and emphasizes the important role of regional organizations 5 therein. The Sudan is currently presiding over two regional organizations, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). In some countries of these two organizations there are conflicts that are the subject of much thought in the world today. IGAD is endeavouring to resolve the conflicts in Somalia and the Sudan. Through the OIC, whose membership includes Pakistan, Iraq, Palestine and Bosnia and Herzegovina, among 57 other countries forming almost one third of the General Assembly, we are sparing no effort to find solutions to serious conflicts at the national and regional levels. Without resolving the root causes of the Arab- Israeli conflict, by ending the occupation, implementing lawful international resolutions, restoring the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, including its right to establish an independent state with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, peace, security and stability will not be achieved in this volatile region of the world. We would like to stress the importance of a political settlement of the dispute between Iraq and the United Nations. In this regard, we would like to spare Iraq and the region the risk of yet another war. As Chairman of the OIC, the Sudan has initiated contacts with the United Nations Secretary-General, the Foreign Ministers of the five permanent Security Council members and the Foreign Minister of Iraq; these efforts were crowned with the unconditional acceptance by Iraq of the return of the inspectors. We commend the brave decision of the Iraqi leadership to allow the return of the United Nations inspectors and hope that this will lead to the lifting of sanctions imposed on Iraq and the consolidation of its security, sovereignty and territorial integrity so as to enable it to regain its active role both regionally and internationally. The birth of the African Union last year was a great African event, which renewed the aspirations and hopes of the continent for total liberation from the nightmare of conflict, poverty and underdevelopment in order to achieve solidarity, unity, security and comprehensive sustainable development there. We look forward to working closely with the new international organization, the African Union, through the mechanisms established, such as its Peace and Security Council, so that we can coordinate the advancement of our continent through effective bilateral cooperation between the countries and effective regional cooperation with economic groupings and partnerships. In this connection, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) has emerged as testimony to the ability of the continent to initiate and coordinate initiatives among African countries. It also reflects the sincere desire of the continent for cooperation through this initiative, with its clearly stated socio-economic priorities. The various regions of the continent have also determined their priorities in the fields of infrastructure, energy, environment, communications, education, health and primary care. I call upon the international community to support Africa through this new partnership so that it will attain its aspirations. We also call on Africa to speak with one voice regarding the follow-up and implementation of NEPAD through the mechanisms of the African Union, our collective organization. With regard to developments in my country, I have the honour to inform you of the latest endeavours to resolve the conflict in southern Sudan. I would recall that my Government has always considered the issue of peace and ending the war in the southern part of the country a priority and a strategic objective. This stems from our conviction that national peace leads to regional peace, which in turn leads to international peace, to which we all aspire. My country has spared no effort to find a solution to the root causes of the conflict. To that end, we have organized national conferences and meetings, and we have also responded positively to the various regional and international efforts aimed at ending the conflict. Against this background, and under the auspices of an IGAD initiative led by Kenya and the efforts of intermediaries, the Government and the Rebel Movement have signed on 20 July of this year the Machakos framework agreement. This agreement was widely acknowledged as a step towards eventual peace, supported both inside and outside the country. However, the rebel movement has set that progress back with its insistence on military activities and on re- opening issues already agreed upon during the first round of talks. This regrettable development forced the Government to suspend the negotiations. My Government believes that it is meaningless to continue military activities after signing the peace protocol. My Government will continue to fulfil its responsibility for protecting our territorial integrity and national security and for seeking solutions to the dire 6 humanitarian situation of our citizens affected by the military activities of the rebels, as well as its responsibility to secure peace and stability for all citizens. While I am setting out the important political and constitutional developments in my country, let me stress my Government's policy of consolidating democracy and promoting human rights in Sudan, particularly after the positive steps taken in the areas of political freedom and freedom of the press. This course of action opened the door wide for the participation of all our citizens at the national level. Sudan's foreign policy with regard to international and regional organizations has been guided by a clear vision based on well-defined principles — namely, openness towards others, effective participation in all international and regional forums and constructive dialogue based on objectivity and transparency. Inspired by these positions of principle, Sudan looks forward to playing a constructive role on issues of regional cooperation in Africa and among its neighbours. Sudan is well qualified to play such a role because of its unique geopolitical situation and its human and natural resources. With this policy, Sudan's relations with its African and Arab neighbours have witnessed successful breakthroughs in economic cooperation, mutual trade and strategic partnerships. The same applies to our interaction with the United States, which is now entering its third year. The American-Sudanese relationship has witnessed some positive developments and our relations, which were ruptured, have progressed to the point where the United States is fully involved in efforts aimed at reaching a peaceful settlement in the Sudan. We are fully cognizant of the political and economic weight of the United States, as well as its effective role in all regional and international issues. As such, we are keen to further enhance balanced relations with the United States. Armed with faith in our just position with regard to the pending issues between the two countries, we remain confident that our relations with the United States will progress in the near future and will be characterized by cooperation, as long as both sides continue to remain committed to a policy of dialogue rather than confrontation. We are also confident that an in-depth dialogue will lead us to consolidate trust between the two countries in a manner that will spare us the bitterness of the past. The unfortunate case of the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical plant, which was falsely alleged to produce chemical weapons, bears witness to the significance of such a confidence-building process. The end of the twentieth century witnessed many wars and conflicts that preoccupied the international community. The negative impact of globalization continues to widen the gap between the countries of the North and the South. Although considerable progress has been achieved in international cooperation thanks to qualitative improvements at the United Nations and the commendable role played by its Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, some issues and challenges continue to preoccupy the conscience of the international community. For this reason the reform process of the United Nations, especially as regards the Security Council, remains imperative.  ﻿At the outset, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his assumption of the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I am confident that his diplomatic skill and expertise will bring us to a successful outcome. I would also like to express our gratitude and appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his leadership and valuable contribution during the previous session. May I also use this occasion to warmly welcome Switzerland as a new Member of the United Nations, and East Timor, which is soon to become a Member. I am confident that the work of the Organization will be enriched by the addition of those two new Members. The increasing membership of the United Nations truly reflects the fact that States are placing greater trust in the relevancy and the work of the Organization. We live in challenging and dangerous times. Conflicts in various regions threaten global peace and security. The danger posed by terrorism has become a global phenomenon. Millions of people the world over remain mired in the vicious circle of ignorance, poverty and disease. The United Nations plays an indispensable role in our collective endeavour to overcome those daunting challenges. The Charter of the United Nations provides us with the bedrock principles for maintaining peace and security. Those principles — sovereignty, territorial integrity and the non-threat or use of force — contribute to multilateralism and have deterred global conflagration for nearly six decades. Those principles must remain inviolate if we are to meet the daunting challenges that confront us. Only through multilateral action can we hope to overcome those challenges. Myanmar strongly believes in the United Nations and the multilateralism it represents as the best guarantee of global peace and security. We therefore share the view of the Secretary-General, who has said that “All States have a clear interest, as well as a clear responsibility, to uphold international law and maintain international order” (A/57/PV.2). Terrorism poses a threat to all of mankind. Only through our collective endeavour can we hope to overcome that menace. Pursuant to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), we have taken necessary actions to combat terrorism. Myanmar was also among the first countries to report to the Security Council's Counter-Terrorism Committee on their actions against terrorism. It promulgated an anti-money-laundering law in June with firm provisions to help suppress terrorism. Myanmar has submitted to the Committee a second report, together with relevant documents, reflecting the legislative and executive measures that we have taken to give effect to the resolution. Here I wish to reiterate that Myanmar is against terrorism in all forms and manifestations and that it will extend full cooperation to the international community to fight that menace. It is in our power to make the world a better place — a world of peace, a world of prosperity and a world free of conflict. To do that, we must do away with hatred. We face numerous challenges today. We must work together in a cooperative spirit to overcome the dangers and meet the challenges that confront us, be they imposed by nature or induced by man. Throughout the ages the world has experienced many natural catastrophes and calamities, including those resulting in the extinction of dominant species. But the greatest danger we face today is not from nature, but is caused by man. It is therefore not only pertinent, but also vital, to recall that the teachings of Lord Buddha, Jesus Christ and the prophet Mohammed all emphasize love and compassion as the guiding light to bring hope to all 17 mankind. If we want a better future for mankind, we must take to our hearts the teachings of those great religions. We should let love and compassion guide us. Only by doing that can we overcome our evil instincts such as hatred, anger and the desire for revenge. We must all do away with animosity, jealousy, excessive pride and self-centred behaviour. Many tragedies today, including the tragic events of 11 September, have their roots in hatred, animosity and violence. It is those negative forces that we must address and overcome. Violence cannot be overcome with greater violence. That would only drive the world towards a vicious circle of increasing conflagrations and calamities. Only a reign of love and compassion can put out the raging fire of hatred and violence. It is not in hatred, but rather in love and compassion, that our future lies. Through the peaceful settlement of disputes we can find greater security for us all. The United Nations and the principles it enshrines is best placed to guide us to that path. The United Nations is the light that can guide us to the path of love, tolerance, compassion and caring. The United Nations was born out of our desire to live together in peace with one another as good citizens of the Earth. It should not be used as a vehicle for inciting hatred. We live in an age of unprecedented prosperity, but that prosperity is not shared by all. While some nations enjoy very high standards of living, the majority remains in poverty. The poor countries, either because of resource constraints or a lack of capital and technology, or because of conflicts, cannot hope to attain development without international cooperation. Because of their innate weakness and an unfavourable international economic environment, they will, if unassisted, remain forever mired in poverty. Poverty breeds discontent and despair — ingredients that could lead to a vicious circle of conflicts and violence. In Myanmar, which was subjected to untold sufferings as a result of insurgencies for more than four decades, we are now actively promoting an end to conflict and bloodshed. We are also striving to eradicate poverty. We are building a modern and developed nation where peace, prosperity, justice and democracy flourish. That is a process that has achieved significant progress. It is our fervent hope that our endeavours towards that end will be helped, not hindered, and that our efforts to attain national unity and our efforts at nation-building will be met with understanding and encouragement. Because of historical legacies, we still find ourselves having to address the issue of national unity. We are building a nation where all our 135 national races can regard one another as brothers, a nation where there is equality and justice, a nation that will bring prosperity to all. Those are the ideals that motivate us; those are the goals that we are determined to achieve. It is the goal of our Government to bring to reality the aspirations of the people of Myanmar to a multiparty democratic political system. To that end, we are laying firm foundations so that such a democratic system will have the strength to withstand any challenges that arise. We are firmly convinced that only through those strong foundations can we ensure a brighter future for our nation. That is a conviction born of our bitter experiences — experiences of 14 years under parliamentary democracy and 26 years of socialism. In this nation-building process, we place special importance on poverty eradication, particularly in rural and far-flung areas. In the border areas where the members of most of our ethnic nationalities reside, we are implementing a programme of all-around development. We have established 24 development zones towards that end. I should like to reiterate that our relentless efforts in the nation-building process are motivated by our desire to bring prosperity to all our national brethren. We are laying the groundwork so that successive Governments, which will emerge under the new Constitution, will not have difficulty in overcoming future challenges. That is a task that we are endeavouring to accomplish with might and main. Understanding, cooperation and encouragement by the international community will hasten the process of achieving our cherished goal. Ostracism and political pressure will surely not help, but will rather hinder, our progress on the path to our cherished goal of democracy. However numerous the obstacles, whether we are helped or hindered, we remain resolute in our determination, for the goal we seek is in fulfilment of the aspirations of our people: it is our noble destiny. Cooperation with the United Nations is the cornerstone of Myanmar's foreign policy. Let me take this opportunity to apprise the Assembly of the continued cooperation that Myanmar has extended to the United Nations. We received Mr. Razali Ismail, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, for the eighth time in July 18 2002. We provided all possible cooperation in the accomplishment of his mission. Likewise, Mr. Paulo Sergio Pinheiro, Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights, was accorded full and unhindered cooperation during his visits to Myanmar. I would also like to share with the Assembly the headway we have made in combating the scourge of narcotic drugs. The elimination of narcotic drugs was designated as a national duty in 1988, and since then efforts have been redoubled to meet that challenge. A 15-year narcotics elimination plan has been formulated and is in its fourth year of implementation. The plan is showing results. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the International Narcotics Control Board have acknowledged that poppy cultivation in the country has fallen from more than 90,000 acres in 1999-2000 to a little more than 62,000 acres in 2001-2002. As part of our concerted effort, the New Destiny project was launched earlier this year in the regions where poppy cultivation is concentrated. The main objective of the plan is to educate poppy farmers, to distribute substitute seeds, to provide financial assistance and to enhance law enforcement. As a result, more than 290 tons of poppy seeds and dried poppy bulbs have been voluntarily surrendered. The surrendered poppy seeds and bulbs were burned in the presence of diplomats and of the international press. That alone has prevented a potential yield of 55 tons of heroin with an estimated street value of more than $2.2 billion. In addition, $1.1 billion worth of various narcotic drugs seized in the country was publicly destroyed in June in Yangon. Moreover, 26,000 acres of poppy fields were destroyed in 2000-2001 alone. Effective legal action has also been taken against drug traffickers. As a country deeply committed to addressing the problem of narcotic drugs, Myanmar also looks forward to contributing to that cause in the international arena. We live in an increasingly integrated world. In this age of globalization, a new partnership between developed and developing countries is needed more than ever before. The Millennium Declaration spelled out targets for developmental cooperation. The Monterrey Consensus outlined actions to be implemented in key financial sectors pertaining to development. The World Summit on Sustainable Development resulted in some progress and in important commitments. Their early implementation will lead to a more equal distribution of benefits in this rapidly globalizing world. It will also enable us to pass on to future generations a world that is economically sustainable and environmentally sound. Myanmar stands ready to work with the rest of the family of nations to attain those goals — goals to which we all pledged ourselves in the historic Millennium Declaration.  ﻿Please allow me to preface my indication by indicating to this Assembly the regret of my Head of Government and of my Foreign Minister, who could not join us on this occasion due to pressing domestic electoral commitments. I would wish, on behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, to extend to Mr. Kavan our most sincere congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. We are convinced that, under his enlightened guidance, we will address with determination and courage the issues that confront the international community. We would also wish to express at this time our deep appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung- soo, President of the Assembly at its fifty-sixth session, for the courageous leadership which he displayed in bringing that session to a successful conclusion under difficult and trying circumstances. To the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, we wish to place on record our appreciation for his relentless commitment to the cause of peace, security and development and for his tireless efforts in achieving the goals of this world body. The delegation of Trinidad and Tobago extends a warm welcome to Switzerland on its becoming the 190th State Member of the United Nations and looks forward in the not-too-distant future to the admission of Timor-Leste into our United Nations family. The maintenance of international peace and security, together with the promotion of economic progress and the achievement of social justice for peoples all over the globe, are the pillars on which this Organization was founded more than half a century ago. These goals remain as valid today, and even more so, as when our founding fathers created this Organization. As Governments, therefore, and as Member States of the United Nations, it is incumbent upon us, the international community as a whole, to reaffirm constantly, by word and deed, our faith in and commitment to the fundamental purposes and principles of the United Nations, particularly in the area of international peace and security. In this field, the Security Council, charged as it is with primary responsibility under the Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security, must be allowed to fully play its fundamental role, as it did in confronting the challenge posed to the international community by the terrorist acts committed in this very city on 11 September 2001. Trinidad and Tobago remains committed to working with the Counter-Terrorism Committee established by Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) in order to do our part to eradicate the scourge of terrorism from our world. On 31 August 1962, some 40 years ago, Trinidad and Tobago became an independent State and immediately thereafter joined this universal body. We in Trinidad and Tobago recognize and appreciate the role that the United Nations has played in promoting fundamental human rights and freedoms, the international rule of law, the peaceful settlement of disputes, the right to self-determination and the sovereign equality of States. Without proper observance by all States, large and small, of these basic principles, the world would most certainly have been a more challenging place for us all. It is in that context that Trinidad and Tobago views with increasing concern the continued absence of a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. It is clear that peace will continue to elude that region unless all parties concerned demonstrate unequivocally the will to collaborate with a view to achieving the vision set out in Security Council resolution 1397 (2002). The maintenance of international peace and security is a sine qua non for the achievement of our economic and social development goals. It is against this background that Trinidad and Tobago, as a small State and as a developing country, supports all efforts made through the international conferences and special sessions held within the framework of the United Nations to address the international social agenda in pursuit of integral human development worldwide. Some of those include the special session on HIV/ AIDS, the International Conference on Financing for Development, the Second World Assembly on Ageing, the special session on children and the just concluded World Summit on Sustainable Development, all of which have not only recognized the concerns of the more vulnerable groups within our societies, but have 30 also identified various policy alternatives through which those concerns can be addressed. There can, in fact, be no meaningful development if significant segments of our populations are allowed to remain in a state of increasing vulnerability. As a result, Trinidad and Tobago participated fully in the work of the Second World Assembly on Ageing, the special session on children and the special session on HIV/AIDS. It is our hope that the adoption of the Political Declaration and the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, as well as the Declaration and Plan of Action emerging from this year's special session on children, will serve as the basis for the development of policies at the national level to deal with the problems faced by these two vulnerable groups in our societies. For its part, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago has recently completed a draft national policy on ageing that will address the principal concerns of our ageing population. The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to hamper the economic and social development of our Caribbean region, affecting as it does the most economically active and productive segments of our societies. My Government has sought to incorporate this issue as a matter of priority into its national strategic planning process. It is virtually impossible, however, for any one country unilaterally to deal effectively with this public health issue. For that reason, Trinidad and Tobago is committed to participating fully in all relevant regional and international initiatives. In that regard, member States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) were among the first to translate the global commitments undertaken at the special session on HIV/AIDS into regional targets when, in 2001, our Governments adopted the Nassau Declaration on Health, which identified priorities for action and partnership in addressing this global health issue. However, assistance is urgently needed to boost these national and regional initiatives. We consider timely the launching of the Global Fund to Fight HIV/ AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We hope that through this Fund, Governments will be further empowered in their efforts to implement measures aimed at the eventual eradication of these diseases. As a country which falls within the category of small island developing States, Trinidad and Tobago feels obliged to make reference to the tendency in the international community to underestimate the phenomenon of vulnerability, both as a condition of size and stage of development. Small island developing economies are by definition vulnerable, and in a global village, where negative occurrences in one sphere can have a ripple effect in others, the implications for us all are as real as they are apparent. The lack of inherent capacity, technology and technical know-how limits the adaptive capacity of small island developing States to cope with the challenges that they face, including global environmental problems such as climate change, biodiversity and land degradation. As we engage in efforts at the international level to achieve environmentally sound economic development, Trinidad and Tobago remains cautious in the light of the dismal record regarding the implementation of commitments made at the Rio Summit, 10 years ago. That Summit concluded with the signing of two conventions, one on climate change and the other on biodiversity, together with the adoption of Agenda 21. It continues to concern us that emissions of greenhouse gases have increased worldwide and that climate change is occurring at a faster rate than previously estimated, especially since small island developing States are disproportionately vulnerable to the impact of climate change, while being responsible for a minuscule proportion of such emissions. Trinidad and Tobago therefore urges that decisive action be taken to ensure that the Kyoto Protocol comes into force as early as possible, as that is the only existing international instrument that addresses these problems. We therefore welcome the political commitment given by the leaders of some key industrialized countries to ratify this Protocol in the near future. It would seem, however, that progress under Agenda 21 has been limited primarily by lack of funding and capacity, which has resulted in the widening of the gap between the attainment of sustainable development and the alleviation of poverty. Trinidad and Tobago is therefore pleased that the recently concluded World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, agreed to specific targets in areas such as water and sanitation, health, biodiversity loss, restoration of depleted fish stocks and chemicals. The fact that the Johannesburg Summit achieved a greater synthesis and integration of the three pillars 31 of sustainable development, namely, the social, economic and environmental, is also a welcome development. The enormous challenges that these issues collectively pose provide a profound insight into the magnitude of the task faced by developing countries in their quest for sustainable development. The real test of whether Johannesburg was a success will, however, come in the months and years ahead as we seek to implement the commitments made by Member States. We must build on the momentum of the World Summit on Sustainable Development and ensure that our future course of action guarantees the outcomes envisaged in the Plan of Implementation and the Political Declaration emanating from that Summit. It is in this respect that Trinidad and Tobago would therefore expect that a priority of this Assembly would be a decision to convene an international conference in 2004 to review the implementation of the Barbados Plan of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and more so in view of the growing recognition by the international community of the special and vulnerable situation of these countries. Additionally, the Assembly may wish to note that some of these smaller economies continue to be faced by circumstances such as onerous debt-servicing schedules, lack of access to new finance and obstacles in penetrating non-traditional markets, which negate all their efforts aimed at economic advancement. It is for this reason that Trinidad and Tobago looks forward to the early implementation of the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative and other United Nations initiatives aimed at alleviating the economic burdens faced by many low- and middle-income countries. These countries are being asked to service debts and at the same time to fulfil their commitments to the Millennium development agenda. In this regard, we welcome the recent appointment by the Secretary-General of a High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States. Trinidad and Tobago looks forward to working with the High Representative to ensure the effective discharge of his mandate, particularly as it relates to small island developing States. Another noble attempt conceptualized within the United Nations framework was the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey earlier this year. Trinidad and Tobago is heartened by the outcome of that Conference that defined the necessary actions for addressing some of the more pressing problems faced by developing countries in the areas of mobilizing domestic and international resources for development, international trade, financial and technical cooperation for development and external debt. My delegation therefore urges this Assembly to endorse the Monterrey Consensus as adopted by that Conference. At the regional level, Trinidad and Tobago is engaged in joint efforts with its Caribbean Community (CARICOM) partners to assume responsibility for the management of our developing economies. At a Special CARICOM Summit held last month, CARICOM leaders mandated that a regional stabilization fund should be created within the framework of a long-term economic transformation programme. The purpose of the fund will be to provide regional economies with the necessary financial resources to respond to current and long-term economic difficulties. This regional financial cooperation programme is intended to augment budgetary resources available to member States of the Community from both domestic sources and multilateral institutions. Trinidad and Tobago remains committed to the international rule of law and to justice for all. Our role in the reintroduction into the international agenda of the idea of the creation of a permanent International Criminal Court in 1989 is well known. And, since that time, Trinidad and Tobago has not ceased to promote support for that Court, both regionally and internationally. It continues to be the hope of my Government that at the Review Conference of 2009, the crimes of drug-trafficking and terrorism will also be included within the jurisdiction of the Court. It is noteworthy that many States regard the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court as the single most important international instrument since the adoption of the United Nations Charter. The successful conclusion of the first meeting of the Assembly of States Parties to the Statute last week was a positive step towards the operational phase of the Court, which now stands as a permanent warning to would-be perpetrators of the crimes within its jurisdiction that impunity will no longer be tolerated by the international community and that justice will be 32 assured to their victims. In the election of judges to that Court, Trinidad and Tobago would, as a small State, consider it an honour to have one of its nationals elected in order to continue its contribution to the cause of international criminal justice. But justice for all victims of the most heinous crimes of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity will only be assured when this most recently created International Criminal Tribunal gains the widest possible acceptance. We therefore encourage those States that have not yet done so to ratify or accede to the Statute. In order to ensure that the Court will truly achieve the goals for which it was established, the States Parties must stand together in their efforts to preserve the integrity of the Statute to which they have committed themselves and must, with one accord, resist any attempts to undermine the effectiveness and independence of the Court. In conclusion, the issues which I have raised in this forum today point to the need for the globalization of genuine commitment to the resolution of the problems that currently confront our international community. What is required therefore is a greater sense of shared commitment to the fundamental purposes and principles of the United Nations in the face of new and ominous threats to global peace and security; to the vision of a world free from poverty, hunger and disease; and to an international organization fully charged by its Member States with the political will to tackle frontally all the challenges that pose threats to the very survival of mankind. Trinidad and Tobago, forty years after joining the United Nations, renews before the Assembly its firm commitment to abide fully by the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and to make its contribution to the economic and social progress of peoples the world over.﻿I would like to begin by congratulating the Swiss Confederation on its recent accession to the United Nations Organization. Switzerland's immeasurable contribution to the work of the United Nations, even as a non-member, has been widely recognized and appreciated for decades. I am confident that Switzerland, in its new capacity as a Member State, will assume an even more significant role in United Nations activities, a role compatible with its new status. Later this month the United Nations will greet another country, East Timor, as the newest member of the Organization. Like my own country, Latvia, which regained its independence only 11 years ago, East Timor will face the difficult challenges of consolidating its statehood and enhancing its economic development. The United Nations and the international community can be proud that their concerted efforts to create a climate of peace and security on that island have met with success, and that the people of East Timor are now able to be the masters of their own destiny. I would also like to express Latvia's continued solidarity and sympathy with the people of the United States, one year and one day after the horrifying terrorist attacks that changed the world forever. The courage and resilience displayed by the inhabitants of New York following the destruction of the World Trade Center has been truly remarkable, and the manner in which New Yorkers have coped with the aftermath of this tragedy has been an inspiration to us all. Today, as well as on the anniversary date itself, Latvians the world over are with the bereaved and with the people of the United States in our thoughts and in our prayers. We see the heinous crimes of 11 September not only as a contemptible act of aggression against the United States, but also as a direct and frontal assault against the civilized world as a whole. 19 The foundation of any civilized society rests on its deep-seated respect for the sanctity of human life. International terrorists hold human life in total and utter contempt. International terrorists specifically target civilian non-combatant populations, with the express goal of extinguishing as many human lives as possible. That is precisely what makes international terrorists so dangerous and so threatening. Latvia, in collaboration with the United Nations, the European Union, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and all like-minded countries, is determined to do everything in its power to stem the growing threat of international terrorism. In the wake of the 11 September attacks, the Latvian Government has adopted an action plan that foresees Latvia's ratification of all international anti-terrorist conventions, as well as an increase in the capacity of Latvia's administrative, security, law enforcement and military structures. We are continuing to harmonize our national legislation according to international and European Union standards, and we are tightening our control of immigration and the flow of strategic goods. We are improving our air and border surveillance capabilities, updating our emergency response procedures and raising the public's preparedness for dealing with emergency situations. I would like to express Latvia's concern at the fact that one of the Organization's Member States — Iraq — continues to ignore repeated calls by both the Security Council and the rest of the international community to allow United Nations weapons inspectors on its territory. This lack of good will and this manifest atmosphere of secrecy only serve to reinforce credible suspicions that that country is clandestinely seeking to produce nuclear, chemical, bacteriological and other weapons of mass destruction, in clear violation of Security Council resolutions. Latvia views such clandestine activities not only as destabilizing to the region, but also as a threat to world security. That is why Latvia believes that the United Nations and the rest of the international community must act deliberately and decisively to curb the continuing threat of weapons proliferation posed by Iraq. Latvia congratulates the United States of America on the respect expressed by President George W. Bush for the United Nations as an institutions and on the commitment he expressed this morning to the principle of multilaterality that the United Nations embodies. We applaud the willingness of the United States to engage the international community, through the United Nations and through the Security Council, on the legitimate concerns of the United States with regard to containing and eliminating visible and defiant threats to peace and stability in the world. Latvia realizes that in this globalized world of the twenty-first century, no nation can be an island unto itself. Several other alarming threats besides international terrorism and arms proliferation present such serious challenges to the human race that we can hope to address them only through concerted and long- term international cooperation. These pressing global issues include organized crime and illegal trafficking, the abuse and exploitation of women and children, endemic poverty and unemployment, drug addiction and disease, and environmental pollution. The global ecological crisis that our planet is now experiencing has resulted from our own reckless disregard for the Earth that sustains us. If we do not radically curb the excessive amount of greenhouse gases and other pollutants that we produce every day, then we will continue to experience natural disasters and climate changes of increasing scope and frequency. I am proud to note that Latvia ratified the Kyoto Protocol earlier this summer, and I share the hope of Secretary-General Kofi Annan that the recent World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, will lead to an increased commitment to environmental protection by the countries Members of the United Nations. Latvia is pleased that target dates have now been set regarding safe drinking water, sanitation and permissible levels of harmful chemicals. Yet we must not allow ourselves to slip into complacency, as the goals that our countries set at Rio in 1992 at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development are still far from being reached. This past spring, Latvia established a sustainable development council, led by the country's Prime Minister. That council will establish plans for the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of the country, in conjunction with European Union policies. Two years ago, the States Members of the United Nations adopted another series of far-reaching goals when they signed the Millennium Declaration on the reduction of poverty. Unfortunately, we cannot yet pride ourselves on having achieved notable progress in 20 that sphere. If the laudable goals of the Declaration are truly to be realized in practice, then the States Members of the United Nations will have to display a far greater degree of political will and practical commitment in implementing them. The United Nations itself will need to increase its administrative capacity if it is to effectively cooperate with its Member States in realizing the goals of the Millennium Declaration. Thanks to the initiative of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, several improvements can already be seen in the work of the United Nations, particularly regarding the reform of peacekeeping operations and the level of collaboration among the Organization's own institutions. Further improvements could still be made in the financial discipline of the Organization's Member States through the timely payment of membership dues and more rational use by Member States of United Nations services at United Nations conferences. Initiated reforms within the United Nations system itself must continue in order to put an end to the overlapping of functions and to prevent unnecessary competition among the Organization's various institutions. Sounder spending practices and reduced paperwork, along with a reduction in the number of meetings and conferences with overlapping themes, would all further increase the effectiveness of United Nations activities. Despite certain deficiencies in the structure and work of the United Nations, the Organization has contributed tremendously to the economic and social development of numerous Member States, including my own country, Latvia. When Latvia regained its independence 11 years ago, it had to undergo a rapid transformation from an occupied nation with a repressive political system to a liberal parliamentary democracy that respects human rights and liberties, and it had to transform its closed and planned State-run economy to an open and free-market economy. Thanks to the hard work undertaken by Latvia's people and their commitment to implement difficult transition policies — as well as the dedicated support of the international community — Latvia now has one of the fastest-growing economies in Europe, along with a stable national currency and a low rate of inflation. Within a few months, Latvia hopes to receive official invitations to join the European Union and the NATO alliance. Many of the positive changes that Latvia has experienced over the past decade have been actively supported by the United Nations, and particularly by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Latvia's new social security system, which is now one of the most modern in Europe, was implemented with direct UNDP participation. The UNDP and the Latvian Government are also cooperating in the implementation of minority integration programmes in our country. Latvia is still in the process of reforming its health and education systems and, like other countries in Europe, must confront the problem of an ageing population resulting from a falling birth rate, the number of deaths each year continuing to exceed the number of births. Nevertheless I am proud to note that on 17 June last Latvia and UNDP signed a memorandum of understanding by which Latvia's status as a recipient of United Nations assistance was changed to that of a net contributor. Latvia sees its intellectual potential and its experience in the implementation of transition reforms as a national resource. We have now entered the phase of sharing this resource with other developing nations. During the past two years, Latvia, in cooperation with Canada and the European Union, has been providing technical assistance and expertise to Ukraine, Georgia and Croatia. Latvia is convinced that the reduction of disparities in income and standards of living among the world's nations is essential for the consolidation of peace and security across the globe. That is why Latvia has liberalized its trade regime with 49 of the world's least developed countries, in accordance with the Doha development agenda. Within its means and through United Nations channels, Latvia has also provided humanitarian aid to war-torn areas in the Balkans and in Afghanistan. Every nation, no matter how large or how small, is possessed of its own intrinsic, inalienable value. Every nation has its unique contribution to make to humanity as a whole. Let us remember this as we meet here today at this fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Together, our nations have many serious challenges to address. But I am confident that by uniting our experiencing and resources, we shall eventually succeed in reducing poverty, cleaning up our environment, controlling the spread of diseases, and making this world a safer and more secure place in which to live. 21 The United Nations Organization was created first and foremost to serve for the benefit of humanity. It was created as an instrument for propagating the fundamental principles of democracy, humanism, universality, mutual respect and understanding. Although the people and nations of the world are vastly diverse in their conditions of life and in their cultures, all human beings share the same basic needs and desires: access to the basic necessities of life, the possibility of growing and evolving as individuals, and the change to contribute to the growth and development of the countries that we each call home. As fellow inhabitants of our beautiful and fragile planet, let us pledge to commit our efforts to protect the physical equilibrium of the earth and to create a fairer social and economic equilibrium across the globe. ﻿I am pleased to convey to Mr. Jan Kavan the warm congratulations of my Government on his election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We equally extend our congratulations to the other members of the Bureau. We assure them that the Ivorian delegation will spare no effort in making its contribution to the success of this session. We would be remiss if we did not mention here the tremendous work of His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, former Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea, who, with his great experience led the difficult fifty-sixth session to a positive conclusion, of which we are all aware. Côte d'Ivoire is grateful for that. A reconciled Côte d'Ivoire conveys its fraternal greetings to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, with particular thanks for his tireless efforts. It is a great pleasure for my Government to welcome and congratulate the Swiss Confederation upon its admission as a State Member of the United Nations. Members will agree with me that the fifty-sixth session was a very difficult one. How can we forget the sad memory of 11 September 2001, which will cast a shadow over the work of our Organization for a long time to come. This session in particular, as it immediately follows the fifty-sixth, must learn all the appropriate lessons from the last session and provide a new dimension to international relations. In the opinion of the delegation of Côte d'Ivoire, the renewed need to recast multilateral inter-State relations can be articulated, inter alia, around the following themes: United Nations reform; a steadfast fight against poverty; human rights; and international security. It has become a truism to say that if the United Nations had not existed, it would have had to be invented. After more than 50 years of existence — and this has been recognized over and over again — on the dawn of the third millennium, the United Nations would do well to shake off the dust and adapt itself to the new times. Along these lines, for almost 10 years we have seen negotiations on reform of the membership and of the working methods of the Security Council. It is time for specific measures to be taken so we may have a comprehensive debate based on the positions of the various regional groups. For our part, Côte d'Ivoire is convinced that two permanent seats and three non- permanent seats for the African continent would be in keeping with the times. Côte d'Ivoire is ready to make a contribution to any resolution or decision which would help modernize the Security Council. For 30 years following the Second World War, the priorities of the international community were such things as reconstruction, decolonization and the cold war, to name a few. Nowadays, misery and poverty, which appeal to human conscience, are, as far as we are concerned, the number-one threat to international peace and security. The greater the gap between rich and poor countries, the more emigration there will be to the rich countries, whose forecasts and development programmes will then be undermined. Contrary to what some might think, in the opinion of my delegation the fight against poverty is an essential component of preventive diplomacy. Both inside and outside a given country, the fight against poverty is the prime operation for the maintenance of international peace and security. My Government has understood this, and we have decentralized our administration through the establishment of district councils. Now it is up to the 58 administrative districts to identify their own needs, to establish their priorities and carry out their development projects financed from the annual budget under the appropriate national legislation. With respect to the financing of a decentralized administration, Côte d'Ivoire takes this opportunity to thank its developmental partners for their aid and support, and we appeal to the international community to make additional contributions to our decentralization 15 policy. I reaffirm that Côte d'Ivoire has enormous potential and, now more than ever, offers extraordinary opportunities for investment and partnership. We welcome the results of the International Conference on Financing for Development, which was held at Monterrey from 18 to 22 March 2002, as well as the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, and the 2001 Doha meeting of the World Trade Organization. We would like to see the conclusions of those three important meetings turned into concrete action. We cannot repeat it enough: the efforts of developing countries will be in vain unless measures are taken to ease the debt burden and unless the international community succeeds in preventing the negative effects of globalization. After the fall of the Berlin wall, the market economy became part of the economic standards of the international community. This new economic understanding means more than ever that we must abandon the logic that says that we should have, on one hand, those who produce only raw materials and, on the other, those who produce only finished products. To enable the developing countries to enter the industrial age and have access to markets throughout the world, we need a better organization of international solidarity, and scrupulous respect for the resolutions that have been adopted. In the opinion of my delegation, with the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), Africa now offers a favourable framework for the exercise of international economic solidarity. NEPAD must remain a programme that assists the African Union, and not a new overlapping institution. Côte d'Ivoire is happy to see the establishment of the African Union, and it will play its role in consolidating this unique tool of international cooperation. While we welcome the progress realized in the promotion and protection of human rights, Côte d'Ivoire is still deeply concerned about issues relating to the right to health. My delegation would like to return to the question of HIV/AIDS which, more so than malaria, is the number-one public health problem throughout the world. According to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and the World Health Organization (WHO), in 2001 40 million people throughout the world, 58 per cent of them women, were infected by the HIV virus. Of the 40 million people who are HIV-positive, nearly 29 million live in sub-Saharan Africa. The disease is progressing, and in Côte d'Ivoire it is especially hitting the most active segments of the population, namely the 14-to-45 age group. In spite of the many praiseworthy efforts made by Côte d'Ivoire, which has also pledged to implement a universal health insurance system, and those made by the international community in its fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic, the results do not yet meet people's expectations. As we await a miracle cure for the mutant AIDS virus, more than ever we have to redouble our efforts regarding prevention on the one hand, and access to medicine for the neediest segments of society on the other. It is also important that the struggle be waged within the framework of ongoing international coordination, which is the only guarantee of success, and that decision-makers show more interest in implementing the outcomes of such coordination. Peace and the security of goods and persons are the alpha and omega of any development. While the end of the cold war seemed to justify a certain satisfaction, we must recognize that recent events do not give us much reason to rejoice. The destruction of light weapons in a few places should not let us ignore the submerged part of the iceberg. In spite of pledges made, the sale of light arms in particular continues to prosper, with the resulting child soldiers and disabled people, not to mention all the refugees and the homeless fleeing conflict areas. The United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, which was held last year, delivered some conclusions which were generally accepted by everyone. My delegation hopes that very soon a report of the Secretary-General will enable us to assess the results of that Conference to date. In terms of nuclear weapons, the key event of the past two years was the end of the 1972 Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems between the two greatest nuclear Powers. This situation is of concern to Côte d'Ivoire. Therefore, my country is very happy to see that in the framework of a new agreement recently signed by the United States of America and the Russian Federation, those two nuclear Powers have decided on a two-thirds reduction of their nuclear 16 arsenals over a 10-year period, zero level being the ultimate objective to be achieved as soon as possible. Like other countries in the international community, Côte-d'Ivoire has taken note of this major event, and encourages the two parties to pursue their efforts towards a total reduction of the nuclear threat. Here, my delegation would like to thank, commend and encourage France, our long-standing partner, which for the last three years, through its vigorous policy of disarmament, has significantly reduced its nuclear arsenal. Let me reaffirm the position of Côte d'Ivoire on disarmament, which does not differ from the position of the group of non-aligned countries. It is imperative that everyone respect the non-nuclear zones established around the world, including the one created in Africa under the Pelindaba Treaty. The events of 11 September 2001 were an appalling atrocity which caused the immediate loss of life of more people than ever in the history of terrorist attacks. Our objective should be to avoid a repetition of such attacks through concerted action, supported by the appropriate means. To combat this scourge, in our opinion, we must grasp the problem at its roots and understand all its political, economic, psychological and moral components. So that we do not play into the hands of the terrorists, the fight against terrorism should help bring peoples together. Therefore, the simultaneous dialogue among civilizations and cultures must inspire the action of the international community. Côte d'Ivoire has taken legal and economic measures to combat terrorism. It has set out to collaborate with other parties and to develop specific legislation to fight against terrorism by defining and punishing infractions. My country will continue to assume the obligations of international solidarity against terrorism, as laid out in Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). To do this, Côte d'Ivoire wishes to have, in addition to the financial and logistical means it sorely lacks, the support of the international community with regard to training in the legal, banking and police areas. But no matter what, my Government will continue its cooperation with the Security Council Counter- Terrorism Committee, so that the fight against international terrorism will yield results which will help us preserve international peace and security. The crisis which has shaken the Middle East for decades is without a doubt a serious threat to international peace and security. The persistence of this crisis is a challenge that appears to expose the impotence of the international community to deal with a conflict that, if we are not careful, could come to be accepted as commonplace. Yet we can at least say that since the start of the conflict, the international community has not folded its arms. Indeed, the United Nations resolutions on the questions are innumerable. The best known of them are Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967 and 338 (1973) of 22 October 1973, resolutions supported by such forums as the Oslo and Madrid Conferences. At the centre of the conflict are the inevitable issues of the need for the Palestinians to have a viable independent State, and of the need for the State of Israel to live in security and in peace with all its Arab neighbours, within internationally recognized borders. That is why it is important to welcome the Saudi initiative which recognizes Israel's right to exist next to a Palestinian State. In that regard, Côte d'Ivoire is very happy to embrace Security Council resolution 1397 (2002) of 12 March 2002, in which the Council, with the concurrence of its five permanent members, affirmed a vision of a region where two States, Israel and Palestine, live side by side within secure and recognized borders. In Africa, we are happy to see the return of peace in Sierra Leone, in Eritrea and Ethiopia, and in Angola. We must thank the political leaders of those States and all others who, one way or another, contributed to the end of hostilities in those countries. We call on them to help in the ongoing process of reconciliation and reconstruction. While we welcome those positive developments, we are concerned by the ongoing hostilities in Liberia, the Sudan, Somalia and the Great Lakes region. We must all support the initiatives and the efforts of well- known individuals such as former President Nelson Mandela and President Bush, and those of the international community, particularly the United Nations, the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC), for the return to peace and stability in this large region of our continent. We urge all the sons and daughters of the region to understand that the return of peace and 17 reconciliation depends first of all on them. Only their will peacefully to settle their disputes, whatever their nature, will make it possible to put an end to the suffering of their peoples. Thanks to the intelligence and good will of its people, Côte d'Ivoire has been able to reconcile and find an Ivorian solution to its recent political difficulties. It encourages all parties to conflicts to have confidence in themselves and in their ability to find appropriate solutions to the issues that divide them, in the interest of their populations and, ultimately, that of Africa. I would like in conclusion to state that while the United Nations has “pushed back the frontiers of racism” (A/49/PV.14, p. 7), to quote former President Nelson Mandela, it can, with genuine political will, achieve equally impressive results in other areas. We must thus do everything we can to push far back the frontiers of hatred, intolerance, violence and poverty or indeed to destroy those evils. Let us build a better world, a world of peace and progress for ourselves and future generations.  ﻿Not very far from here stood two towers that symbolized freedom, prosperity and progress. Halfway around the globe stood two magnificent Buddhas that represented a culture of tolerance and a nation with a rich history. These symbols have now been linked together through the global scourge of terrorism. Terror may have demolished these physical structures, yet it served to strengthened the resolve of the international community never to abandon the spirit and determination with which these icons were built. Terrorism and violence are against the teaching of Islam; a religion that stands for peace, respect for human dignity, dialogue, and tolerance. The Taliban, who destroyed our country and cultural heritage, did not represent Afghans, nor does the Al-Qaida represent the Arab world. Even more, neither one represents Islam. The Afghan people, as the prime victims of war and violence, and the front line fighters against terrorism, particularly appreciate, honour and admire the friendly hand extended to them by the United States of America and other members of the anti-terror coalition, the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), the United Nations Organization, particularly the Secretary-General Kofi Annan whom I must thank for his kind remarks and support of Afghanistan this morning as well as Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi, the Special Representative of the Secretary- General, for their tremendous support to Afghanistan during this critical juncture of Afghan history. Sir, I am honoured to have this opportunity to highlight some achievements of my Administration during the brief course of the past eight months. First, the implementation of the Bonn Agreement and the peace process in my country are quite on track. In accordance with the terms of the Bonn Agreement, the people of Afghanistan manifested their robust resolution and solid consensus for democracy and the rule of law by gathering under one tent to convene the emergency Loya Jirga that is the Afghan Grand Council held on 11 to 17 June 2002. The success of the Loya Jirga, with broad and unprecedented participation of women, was a significant milestone in the recent history of Afghanistan, and a major step forward in the process of peace, stability and nation- building. During the proceeding of the Loya Jirga, hundreds of delegates exercised their right to free speech and expressed their desire for security, peace, national unity, reconstruction, democracy and good governance. The people of Afghanistan told me univocally of their disdain for war and violence. The Loya Jirga demonstrated that after 23 years of imposed wars, foreign interventions, violence, bloodshed, repression, destruction and subversion, Afghans are on the way to enjoy peace and benefit from reconstruction. Hence, they are determined to take every measure to avoid a relapse into warlordism and lawlessness. Secondly, as a result of the back-to-school campaign, schools that were closed for over six years, when neither boys nor girls went to school, have reopened. Three million children from all over the country, both boys and girls, have returned to school. Thirdly, the strong commitment of the Government to the eradication of poppy cultivation and the destruction of narcotics resulted in the burning of drugs worth an estimated street value of 8 billion dollars. Fourthly, as a sign of stability and security, we are very glad to have over 1.6 million of our refugees, who were mainly living in Pakistan and Iran, return home in a period of less than seven to eight months. Fifthly, we have formed a Constitutional Commission to undertake the historic task of drafting the country's new Constitution. We have already established a Judicial Commission, to rebuild the Afghan justice system, a Civil Service Commission to reform the entire administration and impose a merit- based system, as well as a Human Rights Commission to protect human rights, women's rights and civil liberties. We have also adopted a series of laws and decrees to promote and attract domestic and international investments, safeguard property rights and other pillars of the free market economy, combat narcotics, and protect the forests and the environment. Sixthly, despite these achievements, we are realistic about countless challenges and problems that we are confronted with. Foremost among them is security; a principal demand of the Afghan people, and the most fundamental requirement for sustainable peace. It is the position of my Government that the real key to the restoration of sustainable security lies in the creation of a national army and a national police force, along with a comprehensive demobilization programme. We have established a commission for the formation of a national army. I have also highlighted the establishment of the national army and police force as a top priority and the main objective of my Government; but the people of Afghanistan need a clear commitment and sustained support from the international community to realize these objectives. We appreciate the contributions of our American, British, German, Turkish and French friends in training our national army and police force, and the Government of Japan for its assistance in demobilization programmes. I would like to once again request the donor countries to further support our strategy for the creation of a national army and a national system for security by translating international pledges into concrete contributions. The Afghan delegates from various provinces that regularly come to Kabul to discuss various matters with our Administration, strongly request the expansion of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) to other parts of the country. They want to be certain that Afghanistan will not be once again left alone by the international community. We owe particular gratitude to the donor community for its assistance to Afghanistan, but would also like to remind our friends that the majority of the financial pledges made to Afghanistan at the Tokyo Conference are still unfulfilled. We have presented the donor countries with our National Development Framework to indicate our priorities, help manage the reconstruction programmes effectively, and channel financial resources to national capacity building. It is the position of my Government that the consolidation of peace and stability depends on the international community's sustained engagement in providing funding for reconstruction. Implementation of labour-intensive projects throughout Afghanistan has a direct influence on security and the demobilization of combatants. Despite these facts, the level of direct financial support provided to the Afghan Government can be characterized as insufficient, especially given the generosity of donors at the Tokyo Conference, where over $4.5 billion dollars were pledged to support Afghanistan. The Afghan people urgently needs the pledges in Tokyo to be turned into cash. While we agree that there is still a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, I would like to request the international community to focus more on reconstruction, to support long-term recovery efforts, and to treat the causes of poverty, rather than its symptoms. Building highways and repairing the road networks in Afghanistan is an important undertaking with significant economic, political and social impact for the Afghan people. It creates jobs, helps with security and demobilization, provides better connectivity, strengthens national unity and assists with the reintegration of Afghanistan into the regional economy. While the world has now clearly voiced its unity to honour the dignity of life and reconstruction over terror, destruction and subversion, the threat posed by the terrorist groups requires resolute commitment on the part of all nations to fight this evil to the end. I warned the world before the 11 September tragedy about the dangers of terrorism. The Afghan people have suffered tremendously at the hands of the Taliban and terrorist groups. They killed many thousands of our people, destroyed villages and burned orchards and vineyards. Afghanistan is a Muslim country and the people of Afghanistan truly believe in the teachings of Islam, which is based on peace, justice, equality, moderation and tolerance, and reject any abuse and misuse of the holy name of Islam by extremist groups to justify violence, death and destruction. My vision of Afghanistan is of a modern State that builds on our Islamic values, promoting justice, the rule of law, human rights and freedom of commerce, and forming a bridge between cultures and civilizations a model of tolerance and prosperity based on the rich heritage of the Islamic civilization. Afghanistan is committed to continuing to have friendly relations with its neighbours and the 12 international community and to being a resilient partner in the war against terrorism. The establishment of security and prosperity within Afghanistan is a means of promoting security and prosperity in the region and the world as a whole. We do not want to live in the past and are determined not to let the events of the past harm our relations with our neighbours. We extend a sincere hand of friendship to all our neighbours on the basis of mutual respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity, independence and non- interference in the internal affairs of each other. We will never permit our soil to be used for any subversive activities against any of our neighbours or countries in the region, and we expect others to do the same. We are deeply concerned about the loss of innocent lives in Palestine and Israel. We strongly support the realization of the right of self- determination of the people of Palestine. We also support the relevant United Nations resolutions and the Saudi Arabian-sponsored declarations in Beirut. We are also concerned about the dispute between our friends and neighbours, India and Pakistan. We have good relationships with both those countries. The people of Afghanistan know the high price of war and violence and are yearning for peace, stability and prosperity in the region. They know that a peaceful resolution of the issues between Pakistan and India is an urgent necessity to consolidate peace and security in the region and the world at large. In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Switzerland and East Timor on joining the family of the United Nations, and extend my appreciation to Iran and Pakistan, our neighbouring countries, for having accepted millions of our refugees for over two decades and for having looked after them. We are very grateful to both these neighbours. We are also very grateful to the donor countries for having helped Afghanistan and to the international organizations that have helped us over the past many months and years.   ﻿Mr. President, may I first of all congratulate you on your election to an office of high responsibility in the United Nations. The best wishes of the Peruvian people and their Government go also to the delegations gathered here for an event that coincides with our 12 commemoration of the sad moments that one year ago put to the test the feelings and solidarity of humankind. Human beings cannot and must not, either as individuals or as a species, cease their efforts to make history rational. Because it is that effort to give a sense of freedom and justice to collective living that alone can humanize life. As President of Peru I reaffirm from this rostrum the commitment of the Government and the people of Peru to the international community to fight resolutely in favour of democracy and international security, which my country considers fundamental to human development. The world has put an enormous challenge before us, the challenge of globalizing security. Without that security our economies cannot grow and our nations cannot develop socially, for it is clear that global insecurity conspires against the poor. For that same reason, and driven by our democratic convictions, I wish to reaffirm here, without ambiguity, my firm condemnation of the insanity of the terrorist attacks perpetrated against the people of the United States on 11 September 2001, and to reaffirm the solidarity of the Peruvian people and Government to our friend the United States of America. My Government will continue to support the international community's efforts to confront, always within the framework of international law, the cruel and irrational ravages of international terrorism. In that regard, Peru pledges before this Assembly to continue to cooperate with the Security Council's Counter-Terrorism Committee by making available the experts it needs in order to counter with intelligence and resolve the threats and acts of international terrorism, consistent with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and Security Council resolutions. We are convinced that our nations must weave a vast network of commitments if we are to cooperate effectively in all fields in order to defeat terrorism. Peace, democracy and human rights, along with freedom of expression, are the concepts that must be given priority in the process of globalization. And to that end, Peru supports every effort to reach a consensus in the negotiation of a draft comprehensive convention against terrorism. Peru is a party to 12 United Nations conventions which relate to the fight against terrorism and, in that regard, we call upon those States that have not yet done so to sign and ratify these conventions. I refer in particular to the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. That would be a decisive step towards the eradication of this scourge, which threatens peace, security and democracy, creating instability and jeopardizing the development of our peoples. We make this appeal from the perspective of a country that lived for more than 20 years with the violence of terrorism, which took more than 20,000 lives and cost billions of dollars in material losses. Peace is not just a beautiful sentiment; it is the principal value shared by peoples and a prerequisite for the development of our nations. On the basis of that conviction, our Government is promoting, as one of the main pillars of its foreign policy, a limit on military expenditure at the regional level, with a view to freeing up resources for social investment and to combating want and abject poverty. My country's commitment goes beyond mere words. In 2002, consistent with our proposals, we have taken the decision to reduce our military expenditure by 20 per cent and to redirect the resources to health, nutrition and education. I am pleased to be able to say that we have made progress in this respect, and we are gratified by our recent achievements in this area with our fraternal country Chile. Today more than ever, Peru would like to reaffirm, before the international community, that is it committed to the building of a participatory and efficient system of collective security. To this end, we are promoting the adoption of the Andean Charter for Peace and Security, which was approved in June by the ministers of foreign affairs and defence of the Andean Community. Its resolute goal is to begin to formulate a community policy of security and confidence-building, establish an Andean zone of peace, improve and expand confidence-building measures and thus reduce the resources that are currently allocated to defence. Peru is pleased to announce that, in compliance with its commitments under the Ottawa Convention, it has completed the process of destroying its arsenals of anti-personnel mines. It is currently conducting its largest demining operation to date, to reduce mines in border regions, as part of an agreement signed in 1998 with the fraternal country Ecuador. 13 In the same context, our Government reaffirms and renews its commitment to the creation of a South American peace and cooperation zone, as declared in Guayaquil, Ecuador, on 27 July, during a meeting of South American heads of State or Government. We propose the inclusion in the agenda of the General Assembly of an item on the South American peace and cooperation zone and will encourage the adoption of a draft resolution in that regard. With regard of the promotion of democracy, Peru is today endeavouring fully to re-establish the freedoms of its citizenry, strengthen its democratic institutions and resolutely fight against corruption. Our Government has begun this task with full respect for democratic values, as well as for the independence of the branches of State power. I would also like to emphasize the efforts that we have been making to consolidate our democracy through mechanisms of coordination and political and social dialogue. In July, my Government, the political parties, the business sector, workers, churches and other civil society organizations signed a national accord that contains 29 long-term State policies to be implemented by the current and future Governments over the next 20 years. This accord has characteristics that are unique in the history of Peru, since for the first time various political institutions and representatives of civil society met and together committed themselves to continuity in State policies in the areas of democracy, equality, social justice, competitiveness and transparency in political affairs. Likewise, I would like to emphasize the signing, at Peru's initiative, of the Inter-American Democratic Charter, adopted by the Organization of American States on 11 September 2001. The Charter is an effective means of making the principles, norms and mechanisms of collective action consistent throughout the region. That system includes sanctions, to be applied in cases of violations or breaches of democratic institutions, with a view to promoting, preserving and defending democracy in the Latin America. In the framework of the United Nations, we also encouraged the adoption by the Commission on Human Rights of a draft resolution entitled “Further measures to promote and consolidate democracy”, which set out, for the first time within the United Nations system, a set of criteria to determine whether or not a regime is democratic. It includes so-called democratic clauses and legitimizes collective action for the protection and defence of democracy. From another perspective, and bearing in mind the objective of peace, the Government of Peru believes that building peace and good governance is a vital prerequisite for the preservation of liberty and the attainment of mutual and more equitable development. In that regard, Peru is aware of the urgent need for multilateral efforts — particularly by the richest countries — to strengthen democracy. That is why we reiterate our proposal to create a mechanism of financial solidarity for the defence of democracy and good governance. The time has come to be creative — to create a mechanism for the financing of good governance and democracy among our peoples. We have said that democracy is costly. But democracy is a value that transcends the vote, the ballot box and the institutions of the State. It is founded on the deepest aspirations of the majority of our peoples, who are seeking their own development. For that same reason, emerging democracies, which are today plagued by instability and uncertainty, urgently require new resources to facilitate public investment in the economies of the region aimed at re- energizing them, generating employment and protecting them from adverse financial shock. We are at a crossroads of Wall Street and Main Street, where we must resolve the problems of our economies and yet listen to the voices of our peoples demanding that their just aspirations be met. Our proposal, which we are taking from door to door, forum to forum, and soul to soul, is based on the conviction that Peruvian democracy is not an island in Latin America and the world, and cannot therefore be evaluated in isolation from global realities. We must insert Peru and Latin America in an interconnected world. We state this with the firm conviction that what is at stake is more than Peru's democracy but rather the democracy of a system that has proven to be the best. My government, as I announced on the day when I took office, wishes to be remembered in history as one that, with full respect for democracy and all the fundamental freedoms of men and women, strengthened the development of Peru through productive and dignified work and through the courage to invest more in better nutrition, health and education. For this will be the best way to overcome the poverty 14 of nations. We are committed to facing the great problems and challenges of our time by building democracy in a world that is more just and has greater solidarity. Today, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, international democracy has a name: the United Nations. If the United Nations is weak, then it must be strengthened; if it is slow, it must be given the means to act with greater effectiveness and speed. But we cannot do without the framework of the United Nations. Peru is firmly committed to policies and values that support sustainable development. I am pleased in this regard to announce that today I shall be depositing with the Secretary-General the instrument through which Peru reaffirms the Kyoto Protocol. I call upon all other members of the international community that have not yet done so to ratify that international instrument in order to stem and reduce gas emissions that harm our nations. This also relates to the phenomenon of El Niño, which has been afflicting Peru and the countries of the Pacific with increasing frequency and intensity. I wish to reiterate the firm commitment of Peru, first of all, to cooperate with all States in the international fight against terrorism; secondly, to work for peace and development, maintaining our proposal to limit military expenditures in South America and instead to dedicate those resources to the fight against poverty; and thirdly, to strengthen international support for democracy and good governance as an important step in the battle that we are waging against poverty and extreme poverty in our nations.﻿I would like to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I am confident that his leadership will successfully carry us through this session. We extend to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, our sincere appreciation for the excellent manner in which he steered the work of the recently concluded fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. My delegation warmly welcomes Switzerland as a new Member of this family of nations. I would be remiss if I did not pay tribute to the United Nations for its role in ensuring the smooth transition of East Timor to statehood. We believe that the new nation will for some time continue to require the support of the international community in its efforts at nation- building. We look forward to welcoming East Timor into the United Nations in the near future. Yesterday, the United States and, indeed, the whole world, commemorated the first anniversary of the horrific terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. Terrorism is a threat to international peace and security. No matter where it occurs, no matter whom it is directed at and no matter what form it takes, the scourge of terrorism must be condemned and dealt with decisively and in conformity with the ideals and principles of the United Nations Charter. The adoption of unilateral measures by some countries to combat terrorism not only is counterproductive but also undermines the mandate and effectiveness of the United Nations. In dealing with this scourge, the world community needs to focus on identifying and addressing its root causes, such as poverty, the denial of fundamental freedoms and the absence of social justice. The United Nations is confronted with a volatile situation in the Middle East that has the potential to engulf the entire subregion. The Palestinian question should be resolved without further delay, as it is causing untold suffering to the people in the occupied 25 territories. Israel must withdraw its forces from Palestinian lands, and the Palestinians must be afforded the opportunity of having a State of their own. The carnage that is going on at present will benefit neither side. Israel must know that its chances for peace and security lie in having a Palestinian State that will live side by side with it in mutual respect between sovereign States. We believe that Palestinians should be left alone to elect the leaders of their choice, as it is their democratic and sovereign right to do. It is only leaders thus elected who can ensure peace and stability within the State of Palestine and between Palestine and all of its neighbours. We note with concern that some countries wish to arrogate to themselves the right to choose or impose leadership in developing countries by sidelining or overthrowing democratically elected Governments. Not only is this a negation of democracy and democratic principles, but it constitutes outright interference in the internal affairs of independent sovereign States, and must be resisted. I say this in relation not only to other States but also to my own country. My people elected me, and that election was held to have been valid by Africa and its organizations. But Europe said, “No” — and it was Europe that yesterday was our oppressor and colonialist. Europe said “No”, but Africa said, “Yes”. To whom do we listen? The whites in Europe or the blacks in Africa? We listen to our own blacks and their judgement; they are our people. They, and no one else, are the ones who should elect us. Zimbabwe welcomes the emergence of peace in Angola — a fellow member of the Southern African Development Community — and urges both sides to the conflict to remain committed to the Memorandum of Understanding signed earlier this year. The international community should urgently assist that country in consolidating the peace, and move on with the reconstruction and rehabilitation process. This is a small price to pay in order to give the people of Angola the peace that has eluded them since the 1950s. We are also pleased that the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is moving in the right direction. We would like to recognize the efforts of the Government of South Africa and the United Nations in this regard and to call on the United Nations to take strong measures against those who violate the agreed ceasefire. Let me take this opportunity to announce once again that, in view of these positive developments, Zimbabwe is in the process of withdrawing its remaining forces from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We hope, however, that the Security Council will act boldly and without favour in ensuring that peace is consolidated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and that it will immediately proceed with the full deployment of the third phase of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In the same vein, we note that the mandate of the Expert Panel on the Illegal Exploitation of Natural Resources and Other Forms of Wealth in the Democratic Republic of the Congo expires in December 2002. It is our fervent hope that this time the Panel will have the courage to fully expose the economic agenda of the countries that invaded the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We are gathered here to chart the way forward towards the creation of a world fit for all of us, to the turn of the century and beyond. We are meeting against the backdrop of the crucial summits that were held this year, during which landmark decisions were made regarding sustainable global economic and social development. Among these were the Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development, and the recently concluded World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, South Africa. It is our hope that the decisions of these conferences will be translated into meaningful cooperation among development partners. In this context, we welcome the pledges made for increased development aid and the commitment to sustainable development, which are essential for future generations. Unfortunately, the World Summit on Sustainable Development demonstrated beyond doubt the unwillingness on the part of some developed countries to commit themselves more meaningfully to these international undertakings. They preferred instead to hide behind hackneyed and spurious conditionalities which all but oppose and negate the practice of democracy, good governance and respect for human rights in the developing world. While we all cherish these values, we are dismayed that they are increasingly being used by developed countries that have checkered democratic credentials and poor human rights records in order to settle political scores and to 26 forestall the economic development of countries whose Governments they do not like. When we see these same countries propping up regimes that are blatantly undemocratic, we cannot but conclude that this wilful commingling of issues is just an excuse for doing nothing about legitimate demands that the development aspirations of developing countries be addressed. The United Nations General Assembly should express its deep dismay at such dishonest attempts on the part of those countries and call upon them to stop the abuse of international agreements and shared values and the imposition of their interests upon other, often smaller nations. We call for improved global governance through the democratization of multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization. There is also need for coherence in global policy-making. In the same vein, the management of the globalization process should not be left to market forces alone but should be regulated in a way that gives it a humane face and reverses the marginalization of developing countries. In the area of world trade, we call for a level playing field in agenda setting and rule making in the World Trade Organization. We also need to see greater market-access opportunities for goods of export interest to developing countries in developed country markets, as well as greater willingness to address issues of commodity pricing. In addition, we call for the removal of agricultural subsidies, which have depressed the competitiveness of products from developing countries and inhibited their entry into the lucrative markets of the North. In the same vein, my delegation also calls for the immediate cancellation of the debt of poor countries, so that debt-service funds, which are crippling the development efforts of developing nations, can be used to improve the situation of those countries. The special session on children, which was held here in New York in May of this year, did much to bring to the fore the need to address, in a meaningful way, the rights and development needs of children, with a view to enabling them to play their respective roles in society. The United Nations should continue to articulate those needs and foster the creation of a world fit for children. Since the attainment of independence in 1980, Zimbabwe has made tremendous progress in the provision of schools and health-care facilities to improve the quality of life of its children. Regrettably, these gains were later to be reversed, as the Bretton Woods institutions demanded that we deprioritize education, health and social welfare in our resource allocations. Even without the support of those institutions, we have continued, within our limited means, to place primary importance on the development of the Zimbabwean child and the welfare of the underprivileged, thereby raising the literacy rate in our society to 87 per cent. Zimbabwe and other countries in Southern Africa are grappling with the effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Our own efforts at combating the scourge are not enough, and they need to be augmented by the positive contribution of those countries that have the requisite financial resources and technological know- how. We continue to call on the international community and private companies to hasten their efforts at finding an answer to this pandemic, which is ravaging our populations and economies. Affordable but effective drugs need to be made available, while support should be given to care givers helping those who suffer from the disease. Special assistance should be given to the growing number of children orphaned by the pandemic. We hope that the fund set up at last year's General Assembly special session on HIV/AIDS will receive the urgent and meaningful support that it deserves. As you are aware, my country and most parts of Southern Africa, are currently experiencing a humanitarian crisis as a result of the drought that hit during the main cereal-producing season earlier this year. We commend the efforts being made by international organizations and the donor community to provide urgent food and non-food aid to our communities. We particularly wish to mention the efforts of United Nations agencies in this regard. We also welcome additional assistance in programmes that will mitigate the effects of future droughts. Finally, my delegation is happy to inform you that Zimbabwe has concluded the fast-track land- redistribution programme that we introduced in July 2000 in order to transfer land to the hitherto landless black majority. It will be recalled that we had to face vehement protestations, bad publicity and misinformation from those who did not wish us well. 27 We remained resolute in the face of powerful forces determined to preserve vestiges of colonial privilege. The primary objective of our agrarian reforms has been to redress the colonial injustice perpetrated by Britain, whereby a minority of British settlers in 1890 seized our land and acquired our natural resources but never paid any compensation to our ancestors. By assuming its independence in 1980, Zimbabwe discarded the colonial yoke for all time and, therefore, will never brook any interference in its domestic affairs by any foreign Power. I appeal to this General Assembly to convey to Britain and especially to its current Prime Minister, Mr. Tony Blair, that Zimbabwe ceased to be a British colony in 1980 after Prince Charles, on behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom, gracefully lowered the British flag, called the “Union Jack”. He should also be informed that the people of Zimbabwe waged an armed revolutionary struggle for their independence and stand ready to defend it in the same way. We want to be left in peace to carry out our just reforms and development plans, as we peacefully interact and cooperate with other countries within the region, the African continent and the international community. We refuse to be an extension of Europe. We are Africans and shall remain so forever. I wish the 57th session of the General Assembly every success. ﻿I would like at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the General Assembly at this session. We are confident that with your renowned skills and diplomatic experience you will guide the work of Assembly to a very successful conclusion. I assure you that you will be able to count on the full support of the delegation of Cape Verde. I would like to acknowledge the strong leadership and guidance of you predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, who presided over the Assembly during a particularly difficult time, when important steps were taken to improve the efficiency of the General Assembly with view to reinforcing the role of our Organization in resolving the issues confronting the international community. Allow me also to convey a special word of appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the wise and capable manner in which he has guided the United Nations, especially in managing the millennium agenda, which has produced particularly important results for the international community, such as the outcomes of the Monterrey and Johannesburg summits. Cape Verde welcomes the admission of the Swiss Confederation to the United Nations. We are sure that Switzerland's presence in the United Nations can only be of to benefit the Organization, given that country's valuable and renowned diplomatic experience. Likewise, we welcome the forthcoming admission of East Timor to the United Nations. At this time, I am pleased to recall that Cape Verde has always stood by the Timorese people in their struggle for self- determination and independence. That young country and its people have paid a very high price in order to have their right to existence be recognized. It is therefore a duty of the community of nations to mobilize all the support necessary to enable that young democracy to affirm itself and to make up for the decades lost to destruction and violence. The tragic events that struck vital and emblematic centres in the United States on 11 September 2001 deeply shocked the world. The whole international community mobilized itself and expressed its solidarity with the United States of America, while at the same time adopting measures adjusted to the challenges posed by international terrorism. Cape Verde was among the countries that reacted promptly to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and remains firmly committed to its implementation. The shockwaves of that catastrophe were felt in all latitudes and affected many different aspects of the relations between States. These are reflected adversely in lack of economic growth; in increased expenditures for defence and security and the consequent impact on the distribution of resources; and in the daily routines of citizens of every country in the world through restrictions on the mobility of people. In certain regions of the world, there is an increased risk of military confrontation that, should it occur, would have immeasurable consequences. Thus, today, the question of international security has assumed unprecedented importance in the relations between States, and the United Nations is called upon to play a decisive role in its assessment and 5 management. Diplomatic means should be privileged and pursued in the context of the Security Council. A safer world is a more just world. It is crucial that the United Nations strengthen its intervention and coordination capacities in international cooperation to promote economic and social development as the guarantee of a climate of peace and security throughout the world. It is impossible to create a climate of peace and security while more than half of the world's population remains subject to poverty, malnutrition, disease and ignorance. The international community has to strengthen its commitment to ensure that the millennium goals are achieved in time to give meaning to the lives of millions of our brothers and sisters, especially those in the least developed countries, who today look to the future without any hope. At the expense of great efforts, determination and high social cost, many of those countries have implemented the deep reforms required by their bilateral partners and international financial institutions. Regretfully, in many cases, instead of receiving increased support to consolidate the reforms, these countries are being devastated by their debt burden, public development assistance is being gradually reduced and they have yet to enjoy access to foreign private investments. The populations are, however, still waiting for the reforms to produce the promised results. It was against this backdrop that the Monterrey and Johannesburg summits prompted great expectations, but the results turned out to be relatively modest. Even so, if the consensuses reached at those summits are effectively implemented, they may constitute an important starting point for developing countries. The financial commitments announced in Monterrey and the goals set in Johannesburg in the vital sectors of water and sanitation are a contribution of particular importance to the implementation of the millennium goals. The most important thing now is that the decisions adopted actually be implemented and efforts redoubled in order to reach new consensus in the other sectors essential to the planet's sustainable development. Cape Verde recognizes the efforts that have been made by the United Nations to foster the development of the least developed countries and small island States. In this regard, we welcome the creation of the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States, in accordance with the decisions of the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries. Cape Verde has achieved positive results in its struggle for economic and social development. The people of my country have demonstrated an enhanced political maturity that ensures stability and peace and the normal functioning of democratic institutions. Power changes have taken place at both the local and the national levels. The most recent United Nations Human Development Report ranked Cape Verde in a privileged position on the African continent. However, in spite of significant advances made in the past 20 years at the political, social and economic levels, Cape Verde suffers from a structural imbalance between national production and domestic expenditures that has resulted in a permanent deficit in the balance of current transactions, as well as other economic imbalances. Unemployment is high and poverty affects a significant portion of the population. The country's development has been marked by advances and setbacks prompted by its natural economic vulnerability as a small island with a lack of natural resources, a weak production base and a strong dependence on external financial flows. These conditions are aggravated by the country's location in the Sahel region, which subjects it to prolonged droughts that weaken the environment. In light of all this, and given the low rainfall registered to date, we are facing the prospect of another difficult year. This has prompted the Government to adopt emergency measures to alleviate the effects of drought on the most vulnerable. To that end, we have called for the solidarity of all Capeverdeans while, at the same time, we hope to be able to rely on the active support of the international community. Poverty is another of Cape Verde's limitations and poverty reduction is one of the major challenges facing Capeverdean society. At this time, we are working in collaboration with our bilateral partners and United Nations agencies on medium- and long-term strategies to combat poverty. In the coming years, the country will have to find rapid and durable solutions in order to maintain the fundamental macroeconomic balances, further and consolidate structural reforms, expand the production 6 base and create competitive advantages for the economy at both the external and the internal levels in short, solutions leading to economic growth and a reduction of the unemployment rate. In that context, our efforts are more than ever in need of the proper partnerships and foreign private investment so that we may pursue the country's development process begun with national independence in 1975. We are pleased to note that some encouraging signs have begun to appear on our continent. There is a fresh wind blowing in Africa. This year, we saw the birth of a new continental organization, the African Union, as well as a new and original partnership, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). With these were also born renewed hopes for a more promising future for the African people. The globally favourable reception to these two African initiatives is a good omen for the continent. Africa thus seems to be on its way towards finding its own path by strengthening its endogenous capacities to resolve the problems inherited from colonization and conflicts often prompted by external interests. Africa seems to be on the way to finding its own path by strengthening its endogenous capacity to resolve the problems inherited from colonization and to settle conflicts often prompted by external interests. In fact, the African Union and NEPAD are based on a new foundation, as well as a new environment in our continent that is opening new prospects for peace and development. We note with satisfaction the substantial progress made in Angola, Sierra Leone and the Great Lakes region, which points to the definitive resolution of conflicts that a year ago did not seem to have a solution. In that context, we should recognize the important role of the efforts of the United Nations and the Organization for African Unity in seeking solutions to those conflicts, as well as the decisive action that some countries have taken to promote understanding between belligerent parties. We congratulate the Angolan Government and UNITA on finally having found the solution to a conflict that for many years devastated that country. The political conditions are now in place to carry out the enormous task of national reconstruction. However, the gravity of the humanitarian situation demands substantial support from the international community to help the Angolans find a rapid and suitable solution that will prevent their problems from growing. The positive signs that could predict a new era for Africa should not cause us to lose sight of the scope and the complexity of the challenges we face, which result from historical circumstances, environmental disasters and an accumulation of human errors. The most recent report of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development on least developed countries points out that sub-Saharan Africa is poorer today than it was 20 years ago. At the same time, the evaluation of economic progress made in the past decade within the framework of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s is disappointing. On the other hand, the spread of pandemics, in spite of certain limited success in the fight against them, and the serious food shortages that have affected southern Africa reveal the seriousness and persistence of the problems that Africans must solve. The fact that United Nations cooperation with Africa is being strengthened is noteworthy. That is attested to by the increased attention being devoted to the continent's problems. Examples are recent Security Council meetings that have focused on the situation in the continent, the creation of an Ad Hoc Advisory Group of the Economic and Social Council on countries emerging from conflict and yesterday's General Assembly meeting devoted to NEPAD. In that context, we would also note some of the decisions stemming from the Monterrey and Johannesburg summits. It is our hope that this session of the General Assembly will make an important contribution to facing the challenges and will enable the United Nations to strengthen its role as a promoter of peace, understanding and cooperation among all people of the world.  ﻿I would like at the outset to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session and to assure him of the full support and cooperation of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Iran as he embarks on his crucial task. I would also like to express my appreciation to the President of Assembly at its fifty- 19 sixth session for his skilful leadership. I would also like to welcome Switzerland to the United Nations, and look forward also to welcoming the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste. I would like to pay tribute to the Secretary- General for his strong and compassionate leadership and for the vision and wisdom that he expressed in his statement before the Assembly. The world today is characterized by great diversity and emerging factors with a far-reaching influence. In the light of advances in information technology and of the new international information order, current issues and problems are interrelated, like the parts of an organism, and truly global. More than ever before, we see that nations and States are seeking to expand their options and ascertain the nature and the extent of their contribution to, and participation in, global affairs on the basis of not only their national security and interests but also their regional responsibilities, as well as international requirements and norms. This trend towards the achievement of such fundamental objectives points to the expansion of a global, democratic and participatory process that will endure in the long term and is thus sustainable. Embracing diversity, questioning and critically reviewing the past and seeking democratic participation and action all teach us that the fundamental universal human values of peace and security, freedom and independence, and justice and fairness must become the very centre of global attention. Without continued, active cooperation to draw our world closer to such fundamental values, we will not successfully meet the current global challenges. Without expanding the scope of peace and security, neither freedom nor independence will be achievable; without justice and fairness, neither peace nor security will become accessible; and without freedom and independence, both peace and security will become impossible to attain. It is only through such an approach that we will be able to work together, think together and cooperate in a multilateral framework so as to find answers to challenges we face in common and to deal with regional crises. The world is facing grave challenges today, particularly in the aftermath of the tragic terror attacks of 11 September 2001. Chief among these challenges are terrorism and other forms of violence. Combating the sinister phenomenon of terrorism is an urgent and unavoidable imperative. A genuine and effective fight against terrorism must include, on the one hand, an attempt to identify the root causes of terrorism and, on the other, a concerted effort by the international community to address them. It goes without saying that the perpetrators of acts of terrorism must be brought to justice and given their just deserts. Calling for the root causes of terrorism to be addressed should in no way be construed as an attempt to justify terrorism or detract from the gravity of terrorist acts or from the severity of the punishments that terrorists deserve. It is intended to pinpoint an effective and comprehensive means of eliminating terrorism. In this context, it appears that exploring problems such as the worldwide increase in injustice and discrimination, the marginalization of a large number of people and occupation and the violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of others, extremism, fanaticism, bigotry, poverty and underdevelopment could prove helpful in identifying the root causes of terrorism. In our opinion, a wise and principled approach to fighting terrorism would entail full international cooperation, expressed at the highest political level in a world summit that would seek, inter alia, to develop an inclusive definition of terrorism that is generally acceptable. In a letter addressed to the Secretary-General immediately after the disastrous attacks of 11 September, President Khatami called for such a world summit to address this crucial issue and to encourage international cooperation to fight terrorism under the auspices of the United Nations. There should be a worldwide campaign against all forms and manifestations of terrorism and their perpetrators, irrespective of the identity of the victims or the objectives. Distinction must also be made between acts of terrorism and the legitimate struggle of peoples under foreign occupation or aggression, in accordance with international law. Any campaign bent on relating the inhuman phenomenon of terrorism to divine religions that have always been the harbingers of peace, love, amity and moral decency is a great and unforgivable transgression against those religions and their countless followers. As a victim of the most brutal acts of terrorism, the Islamic Republic of Iran regards fighting terrorism in a genuine and comprehensive way as a top national 20 priority, and it is thus in the forefront of the international coalition against terrorism. To help promote regional and international peace and security, my country has thus far signed bilateral agreements or is in the process of finalizing such agreements with more than 20 countries on the extradition of offenders and on the provision of legal assistance for promoting cooperation in the areas of fighting terrorism, drug trafficking and other organized crimes, of the extradition of criminals and of mutual legal assistance. We are intent on further strengthening this policy of enhanced cooperation. In that context, and in accordance with Security Council resolutions 1373 (2001) and 1390 (2002), the Islamic Republic of Iran has reported to the Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee regarding its counter-terrorism efforts in general and about the measures it has adopted against the Taliban and Al Qaeda in particular. We are greatly concerned by the current trend of international disarmament negotiations, which is leading to the further vulnerability and fragility of international security. Rejection of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) by a permanent member of the Security Council and the holder of the largest nuclear arsenal, and the withdrawal of that member from negotiations on the CTBT on-site inspection operational manual, point to that State's policy of unilateralism. Further signs of such a policy are its withdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, its blocking of the negotiations on a protocol strengthening the implementation of the Biological Weapons Convention and its going against the judgement of the international community with respect to the regulation of the trade and transfer of small arms and light weapons. It is only by developing a broader view of multilateralism, international cooperation and respect for the rule of law that we can guarantee progress and success in the field of disarmament and international security issues. Expansion of and deeper respect for human rights throughout the world are a function of their universality and indivisibility, on the one hand, and of the recognition of national and regional particularities and cultural backgrounds, on the other. Rejecting the use of human rights for political purposes, rejecting double standards and discriminatory approaches, and promoting international cooperation in that field for the sake of human rights will definitely help promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Such an approach prevailed at the fifty-eighth session of the Commission on Human Rights, and my country thus received a favourable decision. We are pleased that, with the cooperation of other States, our draft resolutions on developing international cooperation in the field of human rights and on promoting cultural diversity were adopted. Globalization will yield fruitful results when it is accompanied by a non-selective and non- discriminatory approach: when it provides equal opportunities for all within the framework of a global partnership. If the developed countries fail to fulfil their responsibilities, globalization can hardly be called a success story. An open, equitable, law-based, transparent and non-discriminatory international trading system is a prerequisite for achieving the goals of economic growth and sustainable development in developing countries. The continued brutalities in occupied Palestine once again indicate that solutions not well grounded in justice and realism will fail to bring about lasting peace in the Middle East region. The Palestinian people have the right, under international law, the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to persist in their struggle to restore their inalienable rights. Occupying other people's land must be condemned, as must labelling as terrorist a nation that is only fighting to liberate its homeland. The way to achieve a lasting peace in the Middle East is to guarantee to Palestinians the right to return to their homeland and the right to self-determination, leading to the formation — in a democratic process and under the supervision of the United Nations — of a Palestinian State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. It is the Palestinian people's legitimate right to choose, through democratic means, their future political system and the manner in which they elect to establish their civil and political order. We respect the choices that the Palestinian people make. The long-standing policy of the Islamic Republic of Iran towards Afghanistan has been the rejection of violence, the promotion of intra-Afghan dialogue and the establishment of a representative Government by democratic means. We are pleased that, as a result of international efforts — particularly by the United Nations — civil order is gradually being consolidated by the Afghan people themselves through the 21 establishment of the Interim Administration, the Emergency Loya Jirga and the Transitional Government. Formulating Afghanistan's Constitution on the basis of democratic principles, Afghan culture and tradition, taking into account the views of all ethnic groups, will be a major step in consolidating law and order, in strengthening the political structure and in achieving peace, security and stability in Afghanistan. The Islamic Republic of Iran is continuing its close cooperation with the Transitional Government of Afghanistan, especially in the context of spending the $50 million in assistance earmarked for small-scale reconstruction projects in Afghanistan during the Iranian fiscal year 1381, which began on 21 March 2002. Joint efforts that are moving forward include providing custom facilities and preferential arrangements in customs, transit, trade and scientific, cultural and educational cooperation; combating drug trafficking and terrorism; and helping Afghan refugees to return to Afghanistan. The international community is expected to make good on its pledges to Afghanistan so as to begin to rebuild the economic infrastructure there and to create conditions conducive to the voluntary return of Afghan refugees to their homeland. Greater attention and resources must be invested — particularly by the United Nations International Drug Control Programme — in crop substitution programmes in Afghanistan as an effective strategy to fight narcotics trafficking. Respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq and compliance by Iraq with relevant Security Council resolutions — particularly those concerning the return of the weapons inspectors to Iraq — followed by the lifting of international sanctions in the interest of the oppressed people of Iraq, constitute the overall policy of the Islamic Republic of Iran towards Iraq. We oppose any unilateral measures or military intervention in Iraq, we underline the central role of the United Nations in that regard, and we hold that it is up to the people of Iraq to determine their own future through democratic means. The Islamic Republic of Iran is following the situation between its two neighbours, Pakistan and India, with much concern. As a neighbour, we wish to stress the age-old wisdom of the subcontinent and to impress upon the leadership in both countries the importance of exercising self-restraint in both word and deed and of keeping open the lines of communication and dialogue with a view to resolving the situation in accordance with the rules and principles of international law and in the interests of both nations. The current global trend towards participation in collective efforts to face major international challenges and resolve regional crises through democratic means has raised a glimmer of hope for our world today. No doubt, dialogue among civilizations has a special place in charting the way and promoting understanding and tolerance in these troubled times. Dialogue, as a multifaceted and long-term process, teaches us to grow out of the politics of domination that have created so much agony and violence and gradually to opt for the politics of interaction, tolerance and communication. In this context, the United Nations, as a centre of dialogue, international decision-making and implementation, will increasingly gain in importance as the international community resolves to strengthen international peace, security and development.  ﻿I wish to join previous speakers in congratulating Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We are confident that, with his experience, wisdom and proven skills, our deliberations will produce the desired successful outcome. Let me also pay a well-deserved tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Republic of Korea, for the excellent manner in which he discharged his duties as 21 President of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I would also wish to commend the Secretary- General for his continued devotion to peace and development worldwide. During his recent visit to Mozambique, we had the opportunity to discuss the best ways of furthering the goals of the United Nations and strengthening cooperation between Mozambique and the United Nations. We remain committed to continuing to work closely with the Secretary-General. The Government of Mozambique welcomes the Swiss Confederation as a Member of the United Nations and looks forward to welcoming the Democratic Republic of East Timor. They will further strengthen our universal Organization. Allow me to express our sympathy to the peoples and the Governments of several countries in the world that have recently been hit by severe floods. We in Mozambique and in Southern Africa understand the economic and social consequences of floods. Floods, drought and other natural calamities have become a frequent occurrence in the world, and in Africa in particular. It is therefore our hope and expectation that we will be able to prepare ourselves to better deal with issues arising from natural disasters. Perhaps it is high time we revisit the outcome of the 1994 World Conference on Natural Disaster Reduction, held in Yokohama. The 11 September 2001 attacks demonstrated to all of us the dangers of international terrorism, which represents a serious threat to the peace and security of every nation, rich or poor. In that regard, it is our collective duty to fight this threat effectively, under the leadership of the United Nations. To be successful in this endeavour we need to clearly understand and address the root causes of terrorism, amongst which we want to stress poverty and other injustices. In addition to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), we must give due recognition to regional agreements and declarations to combat and eliminate terrorism, such as the 1999 Organization of African Unity (OAU) Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism, and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Declaration against Terrorism adopted by our heads of State or Government in January this year, as valuable tools for strengthening cooperation and providing a platform for effective action to suppress terrorism. Mozambique has already submitted its report on legislation and measures for preventing and combating terrorism, and is in the final stages of the process of ratifying all 12 conventions on terrorism. However, for the effective implementation of these legal instruments Mozambique needs support from the international community to strengthen its institutions, namely the police, the judiciary, the financial system and the Attorney-General's office. We have witnessed this year the holding of a number of major United Nations conferences and summits devoted to a wide range of socio-economic issues: the International Conference on Financing for Development, the World Food Summit, the World Summit on Sustainable Development and the special session of the General Assembly on Children. We have also seen the holding in Barcelona of an international conference on HIV/AIDS, at which our leaders recognized that this pandemic is a global problem challenging our common will and requiring global responsibility and response. The common feature of all these events has been strong and unanimous agreement on the need to ensure the implementation of the agreed outcomes and commitments in order to meet the Millennium Development Goals. Our leaders have stressed that for this to happen, there is a need for unity of purpose, collective responsibility and political will. We should, continuously and critically, assess the progress made in each area of commitment, with a view to realizing the aspirations and needs of our peoples. The future of the world is in our hands. We must not fail to meet the expectations of our peoples. The time has now come for action. We must act decisively to honour the commitments made in the Millennium Declaration. My Government has been following with keen interest the latest developments in the Middle East. We urge both parties to return to the negotiating table to find a lasting peace in that region; such a peace must include an independent Palestinian State living side by side with Israel, and the solution of outstanding issues deemed important by both parties. Without a comprehensive and just solution to the question of Palestine, and without full respect for the legitimate interests of all the peoples of the region, the prospects of peace will remain elusive and distant. The international community should encourage both Israelis 22 and Palestinians to work hard for peace, drawing on all the strength and resolve they need to overcome obstacles along the way. Taking into account our own experience in Mozambique, we believe that peace is a real possibility in the Middle East, and that the parties must seize the opportunity now. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Government of Iraq on its wise decision to allow the return of the United Nations inspectors. It is our hope that the resumption of the inspections will mark a new era of cooperation between Iraq and the United Nations within the spirit and the letter of the United Nations Charter and international law. This session is taking place at a moment when we are witnessing important progress regarding the resolution of conflicts in Africa. In Angola we have noted with satisfaction the conclusion of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government and UNITA, which marked the end of a protracted war. We salute this Memorandum of Understanding and believe that it opens a new era for the Angolan people: an era of hope and great expectations. We appeal to the international community to continue supporting the people and the Government of Angola in the consolidation of peace and stability, national reconstruction and the strengthening of democracy, as well as in responding to the current humanitarian needs. Sierra Leone is living in peace after the successful implementation of the peace process, and following general and presidential elections. We hope that these positive developments will lead to the improvement of the political environment in the Mano river region as a whole. The recent agreements between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, as well as the understanding between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda, have created the hope that the peace process will be irreversible. The attainment of peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo will undoubtedly contribute to bringing about the needed stability in the Great Lakes region, and will pave the way for the rapid economic integration of Southern Africa. We believe that with good will there can be a solution to the concerns of all parties involved in this conflict. In the Comoros and in Lesotho, peace is now a reality. We salute the efforts made by the peoples of those countries to make Africa a continent of hope. We are happy to see Ethiopia and Eritrea working together, with the support of the United Nations, to strengthen peace and good-neighbourliness. The acceptance by both parties of the decision of the Boundary Commission was a major step forward. My Government is concerned at the lack of progress in Western Sahara. We wish to encourage the United Nations and the parties concerned to pursue further efforts, within the established framework, with a view to finding a lasting and internationally acceptable solution to this issue. The African leaders established the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) as an instrument to address these problems. NEPAD is based on the principle of African ownership aiming at setting an agenda to renew the continent and to encompass national and regional priorities along with development plans. This is to be done through a participatory process and a new framework for interaction and partnership with the rest of the world. The support already expressed by many partners of Africa is a signal that NEPAD is a viable initiative. In that context, I would like to salute the encouraging results of the Group of Eight Summit recently held in Kananaskis, Canada, where the world's most industrialized countries expressed their support for NEPAD. In the same vein, I salute the results of the General Assembly's high-level meeting on NEPAD, held in this Hall two days ago. These results enhance our hope of a better future for Africa. Let us work together to make it a reality. In Mozambique, as part of efforts to fight poverty and to implement the Millennium Declaration, the Government approved, and is implementing, a Plan of Action for the Eradication of Absolute Poverty, locally known as PARPA. The overall objective of PARPA is the substantial reduction of absolute poverty in the country through investment in education, health, agriculture and rural development, as well as through good governance and macroeconomic stability. PARPA is partially financed by savings achieved through debt reduction from our creditors — bilateral and multilateral — under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. We are thankful to all our partners for the debt reduction and the cancellations we 23 are receiving. Let us continue to work together to find a definitive solution. This session is being held at a particularly important moment in the history of Mozambique, given that on 4 October 2002 we will celebrate the 10th anniversary of the signing of the Rome Peace Agreement, which marked the end of a devastating war of destabilization. Ten years after this historic achievement, the Mozambicans have kept the peace and shown that they can live together in harmony. Given the historic significance of this date, we have declared it a national holiday: the Day of Peace and Reconciliation. Mozambicans are today enjoying the dividends of peace, which were achieved with the invaluable contribution of the United Nations in what became a peacekeeping operation success story. To consolidate this hard-won peace, we are implementing home-grown development plans with a view to promoting the welfare of our people. We are also strengthening democracy, governance and the rule of law, and preparations are under way for the forthcoming municipal elections in 2003 and the general and presidential elections in 2004. In my address during the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, I spoke of the negative consequences of the floods which affected Mozambique during two consecutive years, 2000 and 2001. Today, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that most of the flood's victims have been resettled and are engaged in productive activities. Mozambique's economy is gradually recovering from the scourge of the floods, and, as a result of the hard work of the Mozambican people and of adequate international assistance, my country achieved a growth rate of 13.9 per cent in its gross domestic product last year and of 12.1 per cent in the first six months of this year. The report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Mozambique (A/57/97), which I commend, provides a further account of the achievements recorded by the Mozambican people in the process of national reconstruction and of economic and social rehabilitation following the floods of 2000 and 2001. The 2001 Human Development Report gives additional evidence of the progress that has been achieved. I should like to take this opportunity to reiterate the sincere gratitude of the people and the Government of Mozambique to the international community for its invaluable support to the victims of the flooding. Mozambique will continue to count on the international community's support, in particular with a view to mitigating the effects of the drought that is affecting Mozambique and other countries of southern and eastern Africa, and in order better to prepare the country to face natural calamities. In conclusion, I should like to reaffirm my country's faith in the United Nations and in its Charter, for they remain the indispensable foundation of a just, peaceful and more prosperous world. We believe that the current reform of the United Nations will help it to provide better service to Member States, particularly those most in need. We are convinced that the reform will give rise to a stronger United Nations, with a clear focus on developing countries and on results-oriented actions.  ﻿I convey warm congratulations to Mr. Jan Kavan on his unanimous election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I am confident that, given his vast experience and diplomatic skills, he will be able to steer this session to a successful conclusion. In the same vein, our congratulations and sincere appreciation go to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the outstanding manner in which he conducted the work of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I wish also to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the illustrious son of Africa at the helm of the Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has taken the United Nations to greater heights. We join other members of our family of nations in welcoming the Swiss Confederation as the one hundred and ninetieth Member of the United Nations. We are confident that its membership will not only formalize that resourceful country's long involvement with the United Nations but contribute greatly to the work of the Organization. After a long and bitter liberation struggle, the people of East Timor have finally realized their right to self-determination and independence. We look forward to welcoming the Democratic Republic of East Timor as the one hundred and ninety first Member of the United Nations. Just as the international community stood by the people of East Timor in their darkest hour of need, the United Nations must now assist them in their efforts to rebuild their country. The opening of this session of the General Assembly coincided with the first anniversary of the 11 September terrorist attack on the United States of America. That horrific attack met with vigorous international condemnation and led to a concerted campaign by countries throughout the world to eradicate terrorism as a global scourge. All around the world, 19 countries, including my own, are continuing to take domestic measures to combat international terrorism. Last week the general debate in this hall was overshadowed by an ominous and terrifying cloud — the threat of war in Iraq. Indeed, most of us have been filled with grave concern about that looming danger. That concern has, however, been somewhat eased. The focus now seems to have moved away from the temptation to take unilateral military action towards the multilateralism that is so vital for the maintenance of world peace and security. In this regard, Namibia welcomes the decision by Iraq to cooperate with the Security Council. Namibia is deeply concerned about the constantly escalating violence in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The continuous wanton destruction of Palestinian towns, the demolition of homes and institutions and, above all, the unabating loss of life are all manifestations of the tragic plight of the Palestinian people. While rejecting all acts of violence against innocent civilians, we recognize the urgent need for the international community to address the root cause of violence, namely, the continued occupation of Palestinian territory by Israeli troops. It is imperative for the international community to act decisively and with a renewed sense of urgency to stop the ongoing carnage and destruction in the Middle East. We support the immediate establishment of an independent Palestinian State, existing side by side with Israel in peace and mutual security. One of the factors which have militated against development and progress in Africa has been the armed conflicts in a number of countries on that continent. Such conflicts have been responsible for the aggravation of poverty and the spread of disease. It is pleasing to note, however, that peace and security in Africa have been increasing over the past year or so. Developments in Angola since February this year have filled us with hope and a sense of relief. After more than two decades of destructive war, Angola is firmly and irreversibly on the road to peace. Concerted efforts by the international community are, however, required to address the urgent and burning humanitarian needs and to help Angola to maintain and consolidate its hard-won peace. There have been similar positive developments in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The ceasefire there has been holding. However, the aggressor countries have still not withdrawn their troops from that country in line with the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, the Pretoria Agreement and the relevant Security Council resolutions. The United Nations has confirmed, through various reports, that there continue to be large-scale violations of human rights in the eastern part of that country. This is unacceptable and should not be allowed to continue with impunity. Similarly, the plundering of the natural resources of the Democratic Republic of the Congo should no longer be condoned. Furthermore, in Sierra Leone the machine guns, with their staccato sound, have fallen silent, thanks to the intervention of the international community in the conflict in that country. Successful elections were held there this year, and the people of that country are now busy with peace-building and the reconstruction of their country. We call on the international community to assist them in this regard. In 1992, the General Assembly decided in favour of a referendum in Western Sahara. Ten years later, the people of Western Sahara continue to endure suffering, waiting and hoping for the implementation of the United Nations plan for the independence of their country. The only hope they have is our Organization. We, the Members of the United Nations, therefore have a responsibility towards the people of Western Sahara in their quest for self-determination. It is not a question of our doing them a favour. Rather, we have an obligation under the Charter of our Organization. It is high time that the people of Western Sahara exercise their right to self-determination and independence through a free and fair referendum under the supervision of the United Nations. The Secretary- General should therefore continue to seek the implementation of the United Nations independence plan for Western Sahara. The unilateral economic blockade against Cuba is continuing to cause immense suffering to the people of Cuba, who suffered with us and shared with us selflessly, extending solidarity to our people during our difficult struggle for independence. We reiterate our call for the lifting of this embargo. Just as the people of Africa have begun, in earnest, to address the problem of armed conflict that has hindered Africa's development and socio-economic 20 progress in the past, the continent must now grapple with yet another menace that is ravaging its population, namely, the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Its devastating impact is now undermining economic growth and development in sub-Saharan Africa, with millions already infected and dying. Indeed, sub-Saharan Africa is now facing a human crisis of monumental proportions. Millions of AIDS orphans are screaming out for help as a result of this rampaging disease. We appeal for increased and generous contributions to the Global Health Fund to enable us to fight the scourge. In that connection, we would like to emphasize that the allocation of the available funds should be determined by the magnitude of the problem in each country. As part of our ongoing effort to fight the scourge of HIV/AIDS, Namibia will be hosting the Second Regional Conference on Orphans and Vulnerable Children from 25 to 29 November, 2002. It is our sincere hope that the Conference will further highlight the fate of those children and galvanize the world's further support to ease their truly difficult plight. We are quite confident that the support of the international community will enable us, indeed, humanity, and Africa in particular, to conquer this ravaging pandemic. The drought situation in Southern Africa places more than 12 million people at risk of hunger and destitution. We welcome the efforts of the Secretary- General in that respect. We also welcome the efforts of the donor community in mobilizing resources for relief. Our sincere thanks and appreciation also go to all the humanitarian agencies providing support. We encourage them to continue to mobilize and to render further support. The fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly has special significance for Africa, in the sense that considerable attention is being paid to the continent's problems. In the first instance, there is the tabling by the Secretary-General of the report on the final review and appraisal of the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s. This session also marks the end of the United Nations Programme for the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa. The conclusions of the review are sobering in the sense that both the New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the Programme for the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa have come to an end, but Africa remains marginalized in the global economy. Also significant for Africa at this session is the fact that notwithstanding the continent's rather minimal development performance during the periods just referred to, Africa has come to the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly more determined then ever to launch itself on a new path of economic growth and development. It was in the light of this determination that on Monday, 16 September 2002 the General Assembly devoted the whole day to exploring ways in which the international community can support the African Union's New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), designed to rebuild and rejuvenate our continent. What emerged from the Monday meeting on Africa was a clear sense of purpose and direction such that, while hoping for greater support from the international community to implement its new development initiative, Africa is seriously seeking to lift itself up by its own bootstraps. Indeed, the African leaders have reaffirmed their commitment to the development goals of the United Nations Millennium Summit Declaration for the continent to achieve economic growth of 7 per cent by the year 2015 and thus to be able to halve poverty on the continent by that same year. And while NEPAD is an African initiative, owned and managed by the African Union, the continent still needs unfettered market access for its goods, increased foreign investment, the elimination of external debts and, yes, more Official Development Assistance, as well as a large infusion of technology and skills into its production processes. In conclusion, I would like to state Namibia's position on the International Criminal Court (ICC). A few individuals who commit heinous crimes against humanity undermine international peace and security. When those who commit serious crimes go unpunished, murder and torture carry no risk. Rather, they encourage even more crimes. The entry into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court on 1 July 2002 represents a historic day for international justice. As a State Party to the ICC, Namibia has noted with great concern the adoption of Security Council resolution 1422 (2002) under chapter VII of the United 21 Nations Charter, as if the ICC were a threat to peace or an act of aggression. In this context, we call upon those States that are not Parties to the Statute to become so now. In the face of a growing tendency towards unilateralism, the revitalization of the General Assembly, which is the collective decision-making body, is becoming even more important. In the same vein, Namibia reaffirms its position on the need to reform and democratize the United Nations Security Council in order to ensure that the Council remains responsible for the peace and security of all countries in all regions. From this very rostrum, it has been said time and again that if the United Nations did not exist, it would have to be created. Those are not empty words. Rather, they express the deep aspirations and commitment of humanity to the Organization, which has stood the test of time and proven indispensable to the conduct of relations among States. Let us not allow multilateralism to be eroded.  ﻿Let me express my country's delight in having Mr. Jan Kavan preside over this fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Antigua and Barbuda owes much to the Czech Republic and the adherents of the religious ideas of Jan Hus, the Moravians, who arrived in Antigua in the mid-eighteenth century and administered to the slaves in a manner uncommon at that time. With humanity and audacity they provided education to chattel servants, which was certainly one of the foundations that led to the development of a sturdy, progressive, and optimistic people, who this year celebrate the twenty-first anniversary of successful independence. Let me also pay tribute to Mr. Kavan's predecessor, His Excellency Han Seung-soo, who guided the fifty-sixth session through a perilous period, yet found time to formulate positions to streamline our work and enhance the functions of the President. I wish additionally to welcome Switzerland into this body; we are mindful of the contributions it has made to our endeavours over the many years that we wished that it would become formally incorporated. On 18 June 2001 Antigua and Barbuda ratified the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court and was most pleased when on 11 April 2002 ten States simultaneously deposited instruments of ratification, which brought the number of States that had ratified the Statute to 66, six more than was required to bring it into force. The reality is that this has been achieved at a remarkably swift pace, demonstrating that the Governments and peoples of the globe recognized the need for the existence of such a body. My own country followed the process of development closely and participated in many conferences, seminars and preparatory commissions on the subject. The adoption of the Statute manifested a revolution in legal and moral attitudes toward some of the worst crimes on earth. Whereas many developing States have suffered under the hard yoke of globalization, the International Criminal Court, with its principles of justice and the rule of law in international affairs represents a plus for the globalization process. Nonetheless, much work remains to be done in obtaining worldwide ratification of the Rome Statute, ensuring that the Court will have the appropriate mechanisms in place to begin functioning as early as possible and disseminating information to stakeholders at the national and international levels about the ICC, the Rome Statute and its supporting documents. The fears of some States concerning the operation of the Court when it is effectuated next year must be overcome. The Statute has sufficient checks and balances to allay all fears, and we remain convinced that the ICC will be a legitimate judicial institution to adequately judge individuals for war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. We reiterate our conviction that this can be done while guaranteeing States their rights, as they are protected from any interference by the Court if they pursue such crimes at the national level, and that the prosecutor's autonomous power is accompanied by guarantees against using the Court for specious or politically motivated endeavours. Although we are thrilled at the pace of development with regard to the Court, if we look closer it reveals the peripheral influence of Caribbean States. 27 It was Trinidad and Tobago that revived the idea of the ICC 41 years after the idea was first discussed. But the specific concerns that Trinidad and Tobago and other Caribbean States advanced as reasons for creating the ICC have been put on the back burner. We had pleaded for a court that would try, and sentence, those involved in the trans-shipment of narcotics, in carrying out acts of terrorism and in committing marine violations, including those in our territorial waters. I am sure that it is not lost on members that in 1989 we were emphasizing the need for the proposed court to try terrorists. The Court is an acknowledgement of that. It emphasizes genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes — and we support this. Yet we remain akin to Ralph Ellison's “invisible man”. During the previous session, there were three major meetings on what can broadly be classified as financing for development. At Doha, 142 countries agreed to launch the next round of World Trade Organization negotiations. Once again developing countries, particularly those with monocultures, found themselves stymied with regard to getting favourable terms for their agricultural products, but were successful in convincing developed countries that it was acceptable to override patents to stem public health crises such as HIV/AIDS. Developed nations feared that that would diminish the effectiveness of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights and discourage pharmaceutical research, but proponents of the change argued forcibly from the humanitarian perspective. Delegates from the developing countries left the conference hoping to get better results at Monterrey — a Conference whose title specifically referred to financing for development. Unfortunately, most decisions were made before the statements of the well- prepared delegates from both developed and developing countries could be structurally evaluated. At Monterrey, there were repeated references by both developed and developing countries to the fact that half of the world's population lived on less than $2 a day. But to any objective observer, it was never clear from the pronouncements of the dominant countries whether they could best help by significantly increasing foreign aid or by more concretely targeting their assistance to make it more effective. Many of the developing countries kept signalling that both measures were necessary and should be undertaken. It appeared that women were particularly disappointed with the Conference. The Executive Director of the United Nations Development Fund for Women, Noeleen Heyzer, declared, “you cannot talk about halving poverty without looking at the feminization of poverty”. Heyzer was critical of the fact that the Conference was working with static poverty statistics. A member of her staff pointed out that new ways of financing development had to consider protecting domestic industries while preparing women to take advantage of new opportunities. Ms. Heyzer stated that the meeting should have considered institutional and legal barriers to women's advancement, such as banking systems that did not lend to women, and customary laws which prevented female ownership of land. In reality, not only aid, but a complete overhauling of the present unidimensional focus of globalization should have come out of Monterrey. The goals — halving the proportion of people living on less than $1 a day by 2015, accelerating the process of providing access by individuals to clean water, and ensuring gender equity, particularly with regard to education — cannot be considered to have been adequately dealt with by simply stating that aid from the developed world would increase from $50 billion to $100 billion. In addition, it must be recalled that only one third of the $50 billion is spent in poor countries, while the level of aid and the conditionalities attached to it makes it difficult to spend the rest effectively. The stringent conditions set by donors also have an impact on the sovereignty of developing nations. Thus, jumping from $50 billion to $100 billion without revamping existing measures of disbursal and implementation will not have the desired effect. Fortunately, the developing countries, through their perseverance, were able to receive greater consideration in Johannesburg. The recent World Summit on Sustainable Development represents the strongest effort by the international community to promote sustainable development through the adoption, as set out in the Summit's Plan of Implementation, of significant and concrete commitments to improve the lives of people living in poverty and to reverse the continuing degradation of the global environment. As a small developing State, my country sought to contribute to the overriding theme of the Summit: 28 the promotion of action. In this respect, we commend the Summit for the major progress made in addressing some of the most pressing concerns of small island developing States, namely, poverty and the environment, and welcome the commitments to increase access to clean water and proper sanitation and to energy services; to improve health conditions and agriculture, particularly in dry lands; and to better protect the world's biodiversity and ecosystems. However the Summit's failure to agree on a target date for increasing the use of renewable energy was a major disappointment to all small island developing States. The true test of the Summit's success will be in the follow-up actions at all levels. While in and of itself the Summit generated a sense of urgency, commitments for action, and partnerships to achieve measurable results, concerted activity must be undertaken. Antigua and Barbuda therefore calls on all actors to honour their commitments and undertake the necessary actions to fight poverty and protect the environment through the implementation of the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the General Assembly's Millennium Declaration and Agenda 21, adopted in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. This will require a significant increase in financial resources, as elaborated in the Monterrey Consensus. Antigua and Barbuda has every intention of adhering to the time allotment, but must of necessity touch on a few other issues. Unfortunately, we must recall the threat of terrorism. We have been working diligently to fulfil the United Nations requirements in that respect. We must, however, move ahead and plan for the future positively. We welcome the New Partnership for Africa's Development and are eagerly awaiting the entry of East Timor into this body. While welcoming East Timor, we must again express our deep dissatisfaction that a referendum has not been held in the Western Sahara. The question of the Western Sahara involves the right of self- determination, a fundamental principle of the United Nations. As long as the conflict remains, the regional security in a significant part of the Maghreb will remain at risk. Clearly, the success or failure of the United Nations will enhance or compromise the credibility of the current international system. A small developing State, such as Antigua and Barbuda, cannot deliver a statement at the United Nations General Assembly without mentioning the imperfections of globalization and calling again for meaningful remedies. When we consider the present thrust toward globalization, we once again see our lack of significance in the global scheme of operations. Clearly, globalization leads to the reduction of the sovereignty of States, with the weakest and the smallest being the biggest losers. Sadly lacking in the arguments for globalization is mention of the need to give consideration to the pace, direction and content of liberalization. We must bear in mind the different levels of development and the need to build up national capabilities. There is much insistence on free trade for the developing world and yet exemptions from free trade are claimed for the industrialized countries. Protective devices are built in for farmers in the dominant economies. These include subsidies, guaranteed markets, payments not to produce beyond a certain level in order to maintain means of processing, and all of this is done under the most stringent of guidelines. On the other hand, when former colonial countries provide preferences to their previous colonies for investments, challenges are mounted through the World Trade Organization by multinational enterprises. All this is done with the clear knowledge that in modern times there has never been free trade. Recently, the envoy of a very large country, seeking the support of Antigua and Barbuda for his candidature to a major international committee, praised our twin-island state for its prominence, rationality and objectivity in international affairs. He went on to state that small States are generally more objective in recognizing which countries ought to have positions on major international bodies. This is, in his view, due to the fact that small States can consider issues without having to take into consideration the pressures from large armies and the need to maintain international prominence. Consequently, small States view issues from the perspective of how policies affect the entire globe, of how there can be improvements for all people, and of what the consequences of certain actions will be. It was an exchange that sobered and uplifted me for an entire week. Yes, small States can contribute much and have a significant role to play in the United Nations. But we need to be looked at and to be listened to. We have much to contribute. We will continue to 29 speak out, to speak up, to advocate, to plead and entreat. We urge that we be fully recognized, for we are positive, compassionate and forward-looking. I end by offering to you the motto of my country: “Each endeavouring: all achieving.”﻿Mr. President, I would like, at the outset, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly and would like to express my appreciation of the United Nations Secretary-General's eloquent statement at the opening of this session, which gave good support to multilateralism and international relations and exposed the dangers of unilateralism and hegemony. I also wish to congratulate the Swiss Confederation on its membership and East Timor on its prospective membership to the United Nations. This session is held one year after the tragic events of 11 September 2001, and I would like to renew our condolences to the American people, especially the families of the victims of this tragedy, and express to them our deep sympathy. It gives me pleasure to express my sincere gratitude to the States of the international community and to organizations for their substantive position rejecting the United States Administration's threats against Iraq and for the calls they made for a comprehensive political solution to the impasse in the relationship between Iraq and the Security Council. In response to several appeals made by the United Nations Secretary-General, peace-loving States and regional organizations, my Government decided to allow the return of United Nations weapons inspectors without conditions as a first step towards a comprehensive solution that includes the lifting of sanctions imposed on Iraq and the timely implementation of other provisions of relevant Security Council resolutions, including resolution 687 (1991). I was instructed by the President of the Republic of Iraq, His Excellency Mr. Saddam Hussein, to convey to you, in the allotted time, excerpts of a letter he has addressed to the General Assembly, in which His Excellency presents Iraq's position on the latest developments in the relationship between Iraq and the Security Council. Following are excerpts from the letter: “In his speech at the General Assembly that was preceded and accompanied by noisy propaganda and extensive preparation, the United States President, instead of paying attention to common issues of concern to humanity at large, has presented the security problems of his own country and the sacrifices it has suffered since the events of September 11. “It is a good sign that the United States resorted, for the first time since the end of the cold war, to the General Assembly to put forward one of its problems, after years of disregard of the weight, effect and opinion of others. Nevertheless, the United States President revealed his basic purpose when he jumped to the issue of Iraq without any introduction or acceptable progression. He portrayed that issue as if it were the most dangerous situation, not only for the life, security and future of the United States, but also for the life, future and security of the whole world. Among his generalizations, which included deliberate insinuations, he presented extreme distortions of the so-called nuclear, biological and chemical threats, so as to make American citizens believe the deliberate insinuation that Iraq was linked to the American people's tragedy of 11 September. “He seems to have assumed that the countries of the world are unaware of the American Administration and its methods, or of Iraq and its high sense of responsibility toward humanity, its desire for peace and stability, or of the fact that the Iraqis are a creative people in work, production, and innovation, in addition to being the heirs of the most ancient human civilizations. “The United States President talked about the importance of the application of democracy on the part of the Government of Iraq. He pretended to care for the people of Iraq after he and other Presidents before him have killed Iraqis by using weapons such as depleted uranium, and by the blockade, which is now more than twelve years old, in which more than one million and seven hundred thousand innocent Iraqis, out of a population of twenty five million citizens, have died. “So, after utilizing the American propaganda machine for a long time and spouting official statements full of lies, distortion, and falsehood, the focus was basically turned on 25 inciting the American public against Iraq and pushing it to believe the United States Administration's schemes of aggression as a fait accompli, as if it were the solution or the necessary rescue that would allow American citizens to live in security and stability, after what they had gone through in the 11 September events. “When the United States Administration realized that it was necessary to have an international cover for using force against Iraq and that the world did not believe the lies it tried to propagate to link Iraq to the September events, it changed the issue and began to shed crocodile tears about international law and the necessity to comply with the resolutions of international legitimacy, alleging that Iraq is not complying with Security Council resolutions, especially with regard to the United Nations inspectors. This implied that Iraq had the intention to develop, or that it already possesses, nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. According to these allegations, it might give such weapons to terrorist organizations that pose a threat to world security. “Now that Iraq has accepted the return of the United Nations inspectors, we will all be able to see how they work. In our past experience with these inspectors (1991-1998), Iraq used to ask the inspection teams to do their job in accordance with the declared goals of the Security Council. However, some of the inspectors went on doing intelligence and espionage work that had nothing to do with the official mandate of the inspection teams. Some of those inspectors have publicly admitted this; some, including an American, are still publicly talking about it. Even Mr. Rolf Ekeus, the former chief of the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM), has recently stated that the inspectors overstepped the limits of their defined duties by spying on the Iraqi leadership. I quote: ‘The United States and other Powers exploited the inspection teams for their own political ends, including monitoring President Saddam Hussein's whereabouts.' He also said that the inspection teams deliberately created problems to prepare the ground for possible military attacks. “Iraq has always defended the principles and values that you have willingly set down in the United Nations Charter and the purposes for which the Security Council was created, which are to preserve security and to establish peace. Therefore, by confronting evil for twelve years now, Iraq has not only been defending its own patriotism, but rather it has acted as if it were defending your own patriotism. It has been acting on your behalf without being assigned to do so. In targeting Iraq, the United States Administration is acting on behalf of Zionism, which has been killing the heroic people of Palestine, destroying their property, murdering their children, and seeking to impose their domination on the whole world, not only militarily, but also economically and politically. “The United States Administration wants to destroy Iraq in order to control Middle East oil, and consequently control the politics as well as the oil and economic policies of the whole world. If it succeeds in that, God forbid, it would dictate for each country what it needs for its economic development, what quantities of oil it is allowed to buy, at what prices, along with other conditions. “Briefly, what Iraq wants is the respect of the principles of the United Nations Charter and international law, whether regarding its own interests and sovereignty or those of the other Member States of the United Nations. On this basis, Iraq was, and still is, ready to cooperate with the Security Council and international organizations. However, Iraq rejects anyone's transgression of its rights, sovereignty, security and independence. That would be in contradiction with the principles of the Charter and international law. “Hence, Iraq has not rejected the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, even though those that relate to Iraq are unjust and at odds with the United Nations Charter and international law. Iraq rather calls on members of the Security Council, and on the United States Administration in particular, to respect their own obligations under the Charter, under international law and the relevant Security Council resolutions. Iraq demands that its inalienable rights, stipulated in those very resolutions, be met, including respect of its sovereignty and security, lifting the blockade imposed on it, and applying paragraph 14 of Resolution 687 (1991) to the Zionist entity, 26 as stipulated in the text and in the same manner as it was applied to Iraq. “I hereby declare before you that Iraq is totally clear of all nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. If there are anyone amongst you who might still worry that the fabrications announced by American officials about Iraq may possibly be true, our country is ready to receive any scientific experts accompanied by politicians you choose to represent any one of your countries to tell us which places and scientific and industrial installations they would wish to see, particularly those about which the American officials have been fabricating false stories, alleging that they contain prohibited materials or activities. If such experts and politicians visit Iraq, we shall provide them with all the facilities they need to achieve their objective, that is, to see the true facts as they are. “As what matters for us basically is that our rights, sovereignty and security be respected in accordance with international law, we have accepted the return of the inspection teams to Iraq, taking into consideration the arrangements that should safeguard these principles and achieve, with transparency, the goal of making sure that Iraq no longer possesses nuclear, biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction. Along with you, we are waiting to see. “The blockade imposed upon Iraq has been in place for more than 12 years now, during which time our assets and oil revenues have been frozen and we have been unable to use them except through an inefficient United Nations-run system that has already proven to be unfeasible. Substantial amounts of our revenues have been illegitimately seized in a manner tantamount to looting and contrary to the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. “We therefore call for a discussion of the issue of the inspection teams in accordance with international law. That should be done on a comprehensive basis with a discussion of Iraq's obligations, including the issue of the inspection teams as well as the obligations of the Security Council towards Iraq, as stated in the resolutions themselves, particularly resolution 687 (1991). Reciprocal obligations exist of which the Security Council has implemented nothing, including the obligation to respect Iraq's sovereignty, which is being violated by America and Britain on a daily basis through their ongoing aggression and the artificially drawn parallel latitude lines over northern and southern Iraq. “You may notice how the policy of the Zionist entity, which has usurped Palestine and other Arab territories since 1948, and afterwards, has now become as one with the policies and capabilities of the United States. “The United States Administration has been making up problems with Iraq in order to derail the application of paragraph 14 of resolution 687 (1991) and to prevent the Security Council from lifting the blockade imposed on Iraq. The reason lies in the fact that the counter-obligations under relevant resolutions of the Security Council, including resolution 687 (1991) of 3 April 1991, contain a clear paragraph demanding that the Middle East be made a zone free from weapons of mass destruction. Thus the American Administration does not want to embarrass the Zionist entity or deprive it of the nuclear, chemical and biological weapons it actually possesses. It is also because the United States Administration is aware that Iraq has indeed honoured all its obligations and is demanding, along with other Arab countries, that paragraph 14 be applied to the Zionist entity. “Iraq has been keen to see the inspection issue discussed between the Security Council and Iraq, through the United Nations Secretary- General and the representatives of Iraq, with a view to reaching a balanced formula based on the principles of the Charter and the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, and within a comprehensive solution which should bring to an end the cyclone of American accusations and fabricated crises against Iraq. At the same time, this would reassure Iraq with regard to its security, sovereignty, territorial integrity and its right to choose its own way without interference, in accordance with the rules established in the Charter of the United Nations. “The United States President said in his speech that Iraq is providing financial support to the Palestinian people. My comment is that this is 27 correct. Yet we feel that the support we have extended has not been as great as we would have hoped, because of the circumstances which have curtailed our means. In extending this support, we act in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the resolutions of the Assembly, in which the national struggle of peoples against occupation and colonialism is considered to be an inalienable national right. “But what grounds does America and its Presidents have to support the Zionist entity, which has been occupying Palestine and other Arab territories and committing its criminal policy of killing Palestinians, destroying their property and encroaching upon, and destroying, the holy places of Muslims and Christians there? What principles and what laws does the American President rely on in killing Iraqis, blockading their country, destroying their property and interfering in their internal affairs?” ﻿It gives me immense pleasure to address the fifty-seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly under your able leadership. Allow me, on behalf of my delegation, to extend to you our wholehearted congratulations on your election as the President of the present session. I wish to assure you of my delegation's support and cooperation throughout your tenure of office. I also wish to convey my thanks to His Excellency Dr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea for the remarkable manner in which he conducted the work of the Assembly's fifty-sixth session. United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan also deserves our gratitude for his inspiring and commendable initiatives in furthering the objectives of our Organization. We are happy that the Swiss Confederation and Timor-Leste have joined us as the newest members of the United Nations family. Timor-Leste stands out as a shining accomplishment of the United Nations system to uphold the right to independence of a nation in adverse conditions. The terrorist atrocities of 11 September will never fade from our collective consciousness, and the agony and the pain of the day are still with us. The sophisticated infrastructure of the terrorist organizations that was utilized to inflict that monstrosity must be dismantled at any cost. We owe it to ourselves and to the generations that will come after us to mobilize all our energies and efforts to never let that happen again, anywhere. Mauritius is committed to remain fully engaged in the global coalition against terrorism, and we shall continue, together with other States, to take all measures nationally, regionally and internationally so that the scourge of terrorism is never inflicted on unsuspecting civilians and countries. We are alive to the chilling reality that no country is or ever will be safe until the war against terrorism is finally and completely won. We condemn cross-border infiltration; it must stop and must be made to stop. The threats posed by international terrorism have heightened the need for collective action to preserve world peace and security. While we combine our efforts to wage a war on terrorism, we should, at the same time, continue to work towards global disarmament and a complete elimination of weapons of mass destruction within a specified time frame. My delegation reiterates its appeal for the early convening of a conference on nuclear disarmament. The term of Mauritius as an elected non- permanent member of the Security Council will end in 20 December this year. During its tenure on the Council, Mauritius was instrumental in the establishment of an ad hoc working group on conflict prevention and resolution in Africa. It has made positive and constructive recommendations that have been endorsed by the Security Council. In contrast to previous years, when the General Assembly listened to a litany of horror stories out of Africa, I am happy to note that substantial and positive developments are taking place on the continent. There is a new dawn in Africa and the stark realization that, without enduring peace and stability, there will be no sustainable development. We congratulate the African leaders who have spared no effort in the search for African solutions to African conflicts and crises. The Pretoria Agreement between Presidents Kabila and Kagame represents a major breakthrough for the peace process in the Great Lakes region. We are aware that the implementation will be difficult. We are, however, confident that the international community will provide all necessary assistance to the leaders in the region for a smooth implementation. With the positive developments in Angola, the successful general elections in Sierra Leone, the settlement of the boundary problem between Eritrea and Ethiopia and the progress made in the implementation of the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement for Burundi, there are clear signals that some of the major conflicts in Africa are being successfully resolved. As Africa embarks on the road of peace, we wish to underscore the crucial role played by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the Economic Community of West African States and the Southern African Development Community in their relentless search for negotiated settlement of the conflicts in our respective subregions. There is cause for optimism, and it is gratifying that the days of doom and gloom for Africa are on their way to extinction. Our region, the Indian Ocean, which has witnessed some turbulent times recently, is again poised for stability and development. We applaud the return to constitutional rule in the Comoros and the consolidation of democratic institutions in that country. We also welcome the formation of a Government of national reconciliation in Madagascar and the efforts under way to undo the damage caused by the recent crisis there. Mauritius will be closely associated with the countries of our region to further enhance regional cooperation. The launching of the African Union in Durban, South Africa, in July this year was indeed a historic and emotionally charged occasion. The birth of the African Union heralds a new era of political, economic and social transformation for our continent. The continent is more than ever determined to shape its destiny and to tackle comprehensively the burning problems of poverty, hunger, disease and underdevelopment that have debilitated millions of Africans over the years. The African Union has raised expectations that we, as leaders, are committed to honour. The African Union will be able to respond in a positive manner to the challenges confronting it, as well as maximizing the opportunities for the improvement of the lives of peoples of the continent. In that context, the decision of African countries to take responsibility for peacekeeping on the continent needs to be encouraged. Since the burden of peacekeeping must be equitably shared, I am pleased to announce that Mauritius will contribute to the United Nations civilian police for service in post-conflict operations. Along with the launching of the African Union, the home-grown New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is another chapter in the unfolding of the success story of the African continent. NEPAD commits Africa to building a strong and enduring culture of democracy, respect for human rights and accountability for the continent. Indeed, the African Peer Review Mechanism is a credible mechanism to promote the prospects of internationally recognized norms and standards of good governance. The establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC) marks a watershed in mankind's quest to put an end to impunity and to bring to justice those responsible for crimes against humanity, for genocide and for international crimes. The ICC is the single most important institution of this millennium, and it is the duty of the international community to fully support it. In May this year, during the special session on children, Mauritius had the opportunity to join the international efforts to pave the way for effective protection for every child in every part of the world. The children who addressed the gathering uttered words of great significance that no one can, or should, ever forget. The future is theirs, and it is for them that 21 we ought to ensure the sustainable development of our one and only planet. My country will ensure that the principles, goals and actions discussed during the special session are integrated in our various child welfare programmes. The Middle East is still not at peace. The death toll rises every day, but we are encouraged by the signals being sent by both the Israelis and the Palestinian leadership. Our vision of the Middle East is to see the early establishment of a Palestinian State living side by side with Israel on the basis of agreed and secure boundaries. The Palestinians also need to have State machinery that observes the fundamental norms of a democratic system, with responsibility and accountability on the part of the leaders. They alone have the absolute right to elect their leaders when elections are held in January 2003. We appeal to the Iraqi authorities to comply fully and unconditionally with Security Council resolutions with respect to allowing the arms inspectors to fulfil their mandate. Small island developing States are a particularly vulnerable group of countries by virtue of their inherent natural and structural constraints. The World Bank; the Commonwealth; the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey, Mexico; and the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held recently in Johannesburg, South Africa, have all recognized that those constraints, if not addressed effectively, could undermine the trade and development prospects of these countries, leading to their further marginalization. We look forward to specific and concrete recommendations for action in this regard at the Fifth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization scheduled to be held next September in Mexico. The World Summit on Sustainable Development addressed the fundamental question of what kind of world we want for ourselves and for generations that are yet unborn. The recent devastating floods in Europe and Asia, as well as the droughts in many parts of Africa particularly Southern Africa, where there are more than 13 million people in danger of famine are a stark reminder of the fragility of our planet's ecosystem. The World Summit on Sustainable Development has made the whole world conscious of the havoc that nature may cause unless drastic measures are taken immediately to redress the ecological imbalance. (spoke in French) The Ninth Summit of La Francophonie, which Lebanon will host next month and which will be held on the topic dialogue of cultures', will undoubtedly enable the French-speaking community to foster sharing among various cultures with a view to maintaining peace, security and democracy. (spoke in English) Mauritius reaffirms its legitimate sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago, including the island of Diego Garcia, which was detached from the territory of Mauritius by the United Kingdom prior to our independence. We renew our call to the former colonial Power, the United Kingdom, to accelerate discussions with us for an early settlement of this issue. The persons of Mauritian origin who were displaced from the Chagos Archipelago continue to claim redress for the serious human rights violations that they endured. We support their efforts to seek redress. We also call on the French Government to work towards the resolution of the dispute concerning Tromelin Island, over which Mauritius has sovereignty. In conclusion, Mauritius reiterates its conviction that the United Nations system remains the best guarantee for international peace and security. The framework within which the United Nations organizes the collective security of States may not be perfect, but it is at least one that is tested and has served us relatively well for more than 50 years. Working on the basis of the neutrality of rules and principles is far preferable to the haphazardness of expediency. We also should not be unmindful of the linkages which exist between different situations, and that is why we urge the international community to observe the principle of equality of treatment in all cases. ﻿Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I am also pleased to welcome Switzerland as a new Member of the United Nations. Let me acknowledge also two other significant developments: the establishment of the African Union, and the creation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development. Both raise real hope for a new era of political stability and economic growth for Africa. We meet at this General Assembly in the shadow of the terrorist attacks on this great city one year ago. Those chilling events were an attack on the values of the great civilizations represented here today, values that are central to the United Nations Charter and this Organization. We can take some comfort in knowing that the international community has responded, deliberately and resolutely, to international terrorism. The coalition in the war against terrorism led by the United States and joined by others, including Australia has accomplished a great deal. The Al Qaeda network in Afghanistan has been disabled. The Taliban regime has been defeated. Now the world is a safer and more humane place. But terrorism cannot be stamped out by military effort alone. Together we must choke off support financial and otherwise for terrorism. We must stop the patrons and bankrollers of the trade in terror, and together face this insidious threat. The decisive response of the United Nations after 11 September, embodied in Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), created a framework for Member States to join forces in suppressing, prosecuting and punishing terrorist acts and terrorist financing. All Member States must implement the commitments made in resolution 1373 (2001). Australia has strengthened its counter-terrorism legislative and law enforcement framework. We are party to 10 of the 12 anti-terrorism instruments and will ratify another later this month. Australia is also assisting other countries in the Asia-Pacific region to implement their obligations. We face another grave threat to international peace and security, one that tests the very authority of the United Nations. For over a decade, Iraq has flouted legally binding obligations to disclose and eradicate its programmes for weapons of mass destruction. Iraq has defied United Nations resolutions, United Nations inspections and United Nations sanctions, and it has ignored some 23 of the 27 United Nations obligations imposed on it under 16 Security Council resolutions. The Secretary-General has been patient, flexible and assiduous in his efforts to get Iraq to comply with Council resolutions. But Iraq has refused to work with the United Nations in efforts to dismantle its programmes for weapons of mass destruction. Until this occurs, Iraq is a grave threat to its neighbours and to the world. Iraq's well documented aggression towards its neighbours and its past use of chemical weapons underline the potency of the threat it poses. Grave concerns remain about Iraq's present capabilities. Up until 1998 United Nations weapons inspectors did much good work in finding and destroying Iraq's weapons of mass destruction program. But the work of the United Nations Special Commission (UNSCOM) was never finished, because in 1998 the inspectors were effectively thrown out of Iraq. Four years later, there is little doubt that Iraq has been working hard to rebuild its chemical and biological weapons programmes. Moreover, serious questions also remain about Iraq's nuclear weapons programme. This state of affairs cannot be left unresolved. Iraq must give immediate, unconditional and unrestricted access to inspectors to all areas, facilities, equipment, records and Iraqi officials. In short, Iraq must fulfil the requirements of all relevant Security Council resolutions. If Iraq has nothing to hide, then it has nothing to fear. Indeed, by meeting these demands, Iraq and its people have everything to gain. Let us also be very clear: Iraq's flagrant and persistent defiance is a direct challenge to the United Nations, to the authority of the Security Council, to international law, and to the will of the international community. We cannot stand by and allow ourselves to be ignored. Nor must protracted negotiations be allowed to weaken and eventually paralyse efforts to allay fears about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. We all must demonstrate a clear, collective determination to uphold the authority of the Security Council, and to ensure that its resolutions on Iraq are implemented in full. Otherwise, if Iraq's pursuit of these abhorrent weapons is allowed to continue, we may shortly be asking ourselves why we failed to act. The terrorist threat has given new urgency to our disarmament and non-proliferation goals, and puts demands on us for a renewed effort to stop the spread of weapons of mass destruction both to non-state 25 and state actors. We have to be alive to the willingness of terrorist groups to develop and use chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. Australia, for its part, intends to pursue practical and effective measures through international non- proliferation treaty regimes and export-control arrangements. These regimes and arrangements have delivered tangible security benefits, and should be supported strongly. We also need to deal with other transnational challenges: not just terrorism but other transnational crimes, including the smuggling of arms, drugs and people. Transnational crimes threaten all countries. They require us to cooperate further in law enforcement, intelligence and financial controls much like the war on terrorism. People-smuggling and trafficking, in particular, are a truly transnational problem. This lucrative criminal enterprise undermines the international refugee protection system, and legal migration programs, that have enabled millions to build new and prosperous lives in countries like Australia. Combating people-smuggling and trafficking in persons is particularly important to Australia and to the Asia- Pacific region. This year, Australia co-hosted a regional ministerial conference with Indonesia. Ministers from thirty-eight countries committed themselves to stopping the people who deal cold- heartedly in human cargo. We agreed that, in the first instance, people-smuggling must be legislated against as a serious crime. There is much more we need to do, and Australia welcomes international discussion and action on the issue, including within the United Nations system itself. Australia welcomes the addition of the International Criminal Court to the international legal framework. It is an example of positive international cooperation which will complement the efforts of States to end impunity for the worst violations of international humanitarian law. United Nations work in East Timor is another outstanding example of how the organization can, and does, make a difference in this case in response to a humanitarian crisis. In May we celebrated East Timor's independence. We are now about to welcome East Timor as a new member of the United Nations. That we have arrived at this point owes much to the resolve and courage of the East Timorese. It owes much also to the United Nations and United Nations authorized missions that brought stability and order and renewed hope for the future. I congratulate the Secretary-General and the Security Council for providing the United Nations Mission of Support in East Timor (UNMISET) with the necessary support, not just for peacekeeping and policing, but also for developing stable governance in East Timor. Sustained United Nations and international support will be critical in East Timor's formative years. Australia is determined to provide such support. I would like to pay tribute to Sergio Vieira de Mello's efforts in East Timor, and to congratulate him warmly on his appointment as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. HIV/AIDS is a global issue that tears at the fabric of our society, and threatens the economic development of entire continents. The United Nations General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS in June last year brought home to Member States their responsibilities to marshal national and regional responses to HIV/AIDS. Australia hosted a regional ministerial meeting in Melbourne in October 2001. Ministers agreed on the need to develop strategies to fight HIV/AIDS, and on the need to share lessons and cooperate in priority areas. We helped establish the Asia-Pacific Leadership Forum on HIV/AIDS and Development to engender greater cooperation in the region, and we applaud the appointment of a United Nations regional envoy for HIV/AIDS. The United Nations has a heavy agenda. But it cannot and should not try to do everything. To make a difference it must be selective and focused, matching its activities to its capabilities and to the priorities that we, the Member States, set for it. The Millennium Declaration gave us clear, agreed priorities. And the Monterrey Financing for Development Conference and the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development have built on these, giving us a framework to shape and direct our work. We also need to revitalize and reform the way in which the key organs of the Organization the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, the Security Council function. The Security Council, in particular, should be reformed, including by expanding its membership. 26 We also need to think again about the relationship between these organs and the Secretariat: time is not a free good, nor are meeting services, nor are the Secretary-General's reports, and nor is the capacity or will of Member States to provide resources without limits. We need to look at how we can more effectively use existing Unite Nations mechanisms particularly the General Assembly and the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) as bodies of review. And we are especially concerned that major United Nations conferences have become so large and unwieldy that their fundamental purposes have been obscured. Australia strongly supports the process of reform proposed by the Secretary-General for his second term. This provides a unique opportunity to address these questions and to `re-tool' the Organization so as to build on its strengths. As Member States, we are the United Nations. The Organization is there to serve our collective interests. In order to address new threats and challenges, the United Nations must be focused and responsive, and its key organs must function efficiently and effectively. We must continue to work together to enable it to meet our expectations. I am confident that together we can achieve success.  ﻿First of all, I wish to express my thanks to the Assembly for having come to hear Paraguay's position. Secondly, I must apologize if I am interrupting your luncheon. Let me begin my statement in this general debate by expressing my delegation's gratification at seeing you, Sir, preside over the work of this Assembly. Your personal and professional qualities will guarantee that our work is successful, and you may rely on the constant and resolute support of the Paraguayan delegation. We also wish to take this opportunity to express our thanks to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the report that he has presented on the work of our Organization, which confirms how essential this work is in the context of today's world. There is a need for all States members not simply to support that work, but also to make it even stronger and more flexible in responding to fresh challenges. Allow me also to welcome and express my country's satisfaction at seeing the accession to this Organization of the Swiss Confederation, as well as the upcoming addition of Timor-Leste. With these new Members we take an important step forward towards achieving the universality to which the Organization aspires. The events of the last year, some auspicious, others discouraging, have given us resounding proof of the role of the United Nations and the fact that the Organization's reform is now, more than ever before, a pressing and urgent challenge. I am thinking of the need for a thorough reform of its organs and structure, as well as of its functions, and of changes that would equip this Organization to respond more effectively to the fresh challenges that are emerging with unexpected speed on the international scene. Who would have thought, when this Organization was founded more than 50 years ago, that at this current General Assembly session we would be extending a welcome in the United Nations to two new Member States: Switzerland, a State that has always held its place and played its role in history and on the international scene; and Timor-Leste, whose birth we witnessed just a few months ago, thanks to a large extent to United Nations intervention? Nor could we have imagined just a few decades ago that this year we would have witnessed one of the most important and 2 anticipated events in the area of human rights that is, the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Who would have thought that one year ago, on 11 September 2001, we would have been eyewitnesses to one of the most tragic and incomprehensible events in history the history not only of the United States of America, but also of the whole of humankind and that immediately thereafter the international community would unite and respond most decisively in combating international terrorism? Those events show us that today's world is not the same as that of the Organization's founders. Among other reasons, they determine and require reform of our institution. That is why it is necessary that we give priority to the work of the United Nations, not only so that the Organization responds efficiently to political events, but also to ensure sustainable development so that its benefits reach every individual, wherever he may live, work and have a home. Undoubtedly, a renewed and reorganized United Nations will ultimately respond to the well-being of every one of our citizens. The decisions that we take in that regard over the next months will define and guide our countries and humanity in the future. Thus we cannot limit ourselves to superficial or simply procedural actions; we must achieve a genuine transformation. In that regard, we must reaffirm first of all the central role to be played by the General Assembly as the principal organ of the United Nations, since it is the most representative, democratic, universal and equitable deliberating organ. The Assembly should become the world's parliament, in which all countries regardless of their size or position can expound, debate, dissent, express their views and share positions on the most important current issues. It cannot continue to be the arena where we come to participate merely to carry out a routine function based on a pre-established and repetitive agenda, and in which our statements are mere rhetoric that is scarcely listened to by any other delegation. Therefore, we firmly support the process of revitalizing the Assembly, which should continue and should focus in that direction. The changes must be genuine and profound so as to enhance the Assembly's effectiveness and efficiency. No reform of the United Nations will have the effect that we all wish for without the much-awaited reform of the Security Council. Until that body responsible for maintaining international peace and security is reformed, we will not be able to speak of an Organization that is in accord with the time in which we live. That is why we should expand both categories of members permanent and non-permanent and include both developed and developing countries, taking into particular account that the latter are currently under-represented in such an important body. At the same time, reform should include the gradual abolition of the right of veto for permanent members until it disappears, making the Council fairer and more democratic. We believe that the time has come to assume our political responsibility in the settlement of this matter. One year after the tragic events of 11 September, we need to ask ourselves what implications they have had, as much for this Organization as for each country domestically. Paraguay took a firm position of condemning international terrorism, fully implementing the measures imposed by the Security Council and promoting the validity of the numerous relevant international agreements. My Government responded to the requirements of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), and to date it has presented two reports to the Committee established pursuant to that resolution. I here reaffirm our commitment to continue to cooperate with the Committee in its efforts, as we have been doing on the regional and subregional levels. Moreover, I should like to report that Paraguay, in keeping with its constitutional process, is becoming a party to the 12 international agreements on terrorism and was one of the first countries to sign the Inter- American Convention against Terrorism, adopted in the framework of the Organization of American States. We firmly support the strengthening of an international legal basis for combating terrorism. That is why we hope that during this session of the General Assembly, negotiations on the comprehensive international convention against terrorism a proposal presented by India will be concluded, as well as the Russian Federation's proposal for an international convention for the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism. One achievement of far-reaching importance this year was the entry into force of the Statute of the International Criminal Court on 1 July, and we are gratified to be one of the first 66 countries whose ratification of the Rome Statute made this possible. We 3 are convinced that the Court will be a deterrent to unacceptable human rights abuses and crimes against humanity. Likewise, we are certain that the work of the Court will not be tarnished or manipulated by any political influence and that its independence, impartiality and purpose will be preserved. Paraguay appeals to all countries that have not yet signed or ratified the Statute to do so as soon as possible, since the Court's universality is fundamental to its effectiveness. My country has followed very closely the recent debate on the Court's competence to judge hypothetical offences, committed in the course of United Nations peacekeeping operations, in which personnel in the service of countries that have not signed or ratified the Statute might be involved. We welcome the Secretary-General's appointment of the new High Commissioner for Human Rights. We are certain that, as a Latin American, he will do honour to that appointment, which was confirmed by the Assembly. We share his desire to build a human rights agenda that will not divide peoples and States, but rather unite them more. Paraguay will provide all the support necessary to ensure that his mission is successful. For the first time, Paraguay will become a member of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, as of January 2003, and I should like to take this opportunity to reaffirm my Government's commitment to cooperate with and contribute to that body's important and altruistic work. We are prepared to work with the other members of the Commission as well as with other States and entities. Today we face a complex world that is still far from forming a stable international order. We continue to witness confrontations in various regions of the world. That is why we must devote all our efforts and resources to the reconciliation of humanity. The Republic of Paraguay will always invoke and support the peaceful settlement of conflicts through dialogue, mutual understanding and international law. In that regard, we see grounds for grave concern in the serious worsening of the situation in the Middle East: the spiral of violence, the alarming humanitarian situation and the violation of the fundamental rights of the civilian population as well as the loss of innocent lives among both the Palestinian and Israeli peoples. We resolutely support the work of the `quartet' and of the international community in general in their efforts to secure a resumption of negotiations and thus bring about much-desired peace in the region. At the same time, as a country that abides strictly by international law, Paraguay regrets the fact that the resolutions adopted by the Security Council on this question this year, which contain clear terms and references, have still not been implemented by the parties. Paraguay would underscore once again the urgent need to achieve a just and lasting peace in the Middle East on the basis of Security Council resolutions, especially 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002), in order to pave the way for the peaceful coexistence of two independent States, Israel and Palestine, within secure and internationally recognized borders. My country, Paraguay, has been following closely the situation in Afghanistan. We welcome the presence in this general debate of President Karzai, who deserves our recognition and our firm support in his efforts to fulfil his responsibilities and to carry out the tasks that lie ahead of him. The international community is committed to continuing to support Afghanistan so as to enable it to achieve the stability and development that its people so desire. The Government of Paraguay, in keeping with the position it has been maintaining and expressing concerning the question of the Republic of China on Taiwan, would once again reaffirm its strong wish that this issue be considered within the framework of universality embodied in our Charter and on the basis of norms of international law, in order to achieve a satisfactory solution through dialogue among the parties concerned. This year has been marked by important conferences. The World Assembly on Ageing in Madrid, the special session on children, the Monterrey Conference, the Johannesburg Summit and the World Food Summit took place in a context of increasing deterioration in the socio-economic conditions affecting many of our peoples, thus heightening frustration and despair because of the lack of tangible and concrete results. In order to prevent the situation from persisting, what is needed on the one hand is urgent political resolve on the part of all Member States to implement and fulfil the commitments undertaken at those conferences and, on the other hand, an increase in the participation and integration of developing countries in the process of global political decision-making. 4 Consequently, Paraguay has been striving to channel the limited resources at its disposal into areas of pressing priority in the social and economic fields, particularly in the areas of education and health, to the point where now they represent a majority of Paraguay's national budget. We have also reduced military expenditure to below 1 per cent of gross domestic product, the lowest level in our history. We have also been giving priority to State expenditure directed at building road and energy infrastructure, which will make it possible to integrate Paraguay into the transport and energy corridors that will link the Atlantic and Pacific oceans in South America. Sustainable development in its broadest definition, as we addressed it at Johannesburg, increasingly requires shared solutions in a globalized world as well as differentiated commitments. For this reason, we deem it essential that the industrialized countries share in and support our development plans. Official development assistance should play only a complementary role that will enable us to incorporate, in a timely manner, the available financial resources from both internal and external sources so as to enable smaller countries to be properly incorporated into a competitive and independent world. One of the instruments that is constantly touted as a producer of development is free trade. The developing countries want to see free trade on a double track. We want to have access to the markets of the developed countries, and we wish to see the elimination of measures that distort trade, such as agricultural subsidies, domestic export assistance and the abuse of anti-dumping measures. If these protectionist practices persist, they will delay our countries' participation in the supposed benefits that, we believe, stem from free trade and will also considerably worsen the social divide in all its manifestations. Combating poverty is not just a political commitment but, above all, a moral one. Paraguay welcomes the General Assembly's plan to devote a day 16 September to considering ways and means of providing support to the New Partnership for Africa's Development. High-level plenary sessions and interactive round tables will be held. We trust that the outcome will make a decisive contribution to promoting renewed commitments to the social and economic development of the whole of the African continent. The International Ministerial Meeting of Landlocked Developing Countries and Transit Developing Countries will be held next year. It will address the problems that beset countries such as my own, such as integration into international markets, excessive costs related to transit transport, customs delays, restrictions and technical barriers to trade, as well as the need for financial support and the requisite investment in infrastructure and capacity development in order to overcome the disadvantages that stem from being landlocked. Paraguay has offered to host the subregional Latin American preparatory meeting for the Ministerial Meeting, with a view to defining clearly all of the necessary measures to establish our country's requirements, in particular with respect to the differential treatment to be given to landlocked countries, through tangible commitments in the areas of transport, customs and duty-free zones and in the area of opening markets through reduced customs tariffs, the elimination of special excise duties and other measures that hinder the competitive participation in international trade of landlocked developing countries. Paraguay, in the context of its democratization process, to which all citizens are committed at the State, regional and municipal levels, will be holding elections in April next year, which will once again confirm the consolidation of our democracy. Unfortunately, as in many other countries of the world, and especially in Latin America today, the democratic system is threatened by heightened poverty and the serious economic situation, which has caused the living conditions of our citizens to deteriorate. For that reason, our country must also receive the consideration that it deserves in the context of efforts to find solutions to these problems. I trust that the Organization and the financial agencies and their principal members will respond appropriately at the right time. In concluding my last address to this plenary as head of State of the Republic of Paraguay, my term of office, according to the Constitution, ends on 15 August 2003, I wish to reaffirm my country's commitment to this Organization and its trust that it, in turn, will respond to the hopes and expectations of a better future for our peoples.  ﻿On behalf of the Government and the people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, I am pleased to offer our most heartfelt congratulations to President Jan Kavan on his assumption of the office of President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Let me also express our appreciation and thanks to the outgoing President, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the excellent manner in which he conducted the affairs of the fifty-sixth session as President. I should also like to take this opportunity to welcome our newest member — the Swiss Confederation — into the United Nations, and we look forward to the admission of East Timor to the family of nations before the end of this month. Let me first of all pay my respects to this Organization, the United Nations, and to our Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan. Since the onslaught of the terrorist attacks in September last year, the world has been focused once again on the unique role of the United Nations as never before, as the nations came together to fight the scourge of terrorism. Just last week, President Bush used his address to this forum to invoke the special and unique assistance of the United Nations to deal with the problems related to Iraq. The world breathed a sigh of relief when it heard the welcome decision by Iraq to readmit the United Nations weapons inspectors, without conditions, into Iraq. We hope that this decision will be efficacious in resolving this problem, which could have unforeseen consequences for the whole world. In general, we support the collective judgement of the United Nations rather than any rash unilateral action by any one or two Member States. We have also witnessed the tangible results of the support of the United Nations for East Timor in its struggle for independence and for Afghanistan in its struggle for liberation, peace and stability. I say without hesitation or equivocation that today the world needs the United Nations more than ever before. Holding the attention of all of us at this time are ongoing activities associated with the war on terrorism. We were all engaged in a solemn commemoration of the sickening events of 11 September just last week, on the occasion of the first anniversary of the brutal terrorist attacks on the United States of America. We — the whole world — must commit ourselves to ensuring that such events will never happen again. We applaud the work done by the Counter-Terrorism Committee established by the United Nations to secure compliance with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has already contributed to this effort by implementing a range of measures to combat terrorism and assist the global effort. We recognize the links between terrorism and international criminal activities such as drug trafficking, money-laundering and organized crime. We pledge to do whatever is in our power to combat these threats. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, like many of the poorer nations of the world, is crippled by external debt. The burden of this debt means that areas of critical importance to our development, such as education, poverty reduction and social development, are deprived of the resources that are desperately needed for the advancement of our people. The pursuit of sustainable development remains central to the efforts of our people to create a better life for themselves. To this end, my country had great expectations from the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey, Mexico, and also from the just-concluded World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, South Africa. While these conferences enabled some attention to be focused on the urgency of the development agenda that must be addressed, and some level of consensus was achieved with respect to the action required, we must lament the reluctance of some developed countries to give more meaningful expression to their stated commitments. Mere recognition and articulation of the problems will not suffice. Actions, not words, are needed to change the situation. This requires the will and the requisite resources to effect the changes required. We therefore call on those members of the international community to give reality to their words by putting in place the necessary arrangements and the financing through which we all can manage the critical problems of sustainable development. Let us remind the international community of its commitment to meeting 5 the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product for official development assistance. My country, like others in the Caribbean and in Africa, is threatened by the scourge of HIV/AIDS. As a matter of fact, my country has the second-highest per capita ratio of HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). We are in danger of losing a whole generation of our young people to this dreaded disease. We lack the resources to procure the necessary treatment and proper care for those affected. We must all work together — developed and developing countries — to eradicate this and other diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis. We must make sure that the Global Fund to fight these diseases has the necessary resources to do its work effectively. Six years after the completion of the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations and the creation of the World Trade Organization (WTO), my country has had to endure the ravages of the imbalances of economic power in the world. The constraints imposed by our small size and vulnerability must now be evident to all. As we deploy our limited human resources to engage in negotiations at three distinct and separate levels — the WTO, the European Union and the Free Trade Area of the Americas — we urge that due recognition be given to the need for flexibility in trading arrangements for countries such as mine. We would also like to see a realistic assessment of special and differential treatment in the continued architecture of the global trading and economic arrangements. Our ability to survive is effectively compromised if there is no flexibility in these negotiations. We welcome the New Partnership for Africa's Development. We commend the African countries that came together to create this bold and imaginative new initiative. Africa needs the help of the United Nations and in particular that of the donor countries. But Africa also needs to help itself by committing itself to peace, democracy and good governance, which requires the eradication of corruption in public life. We welcome the efforts being made to end strife and war and to create a climate of stability and peace in Angola, Sierra Leone, the Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. As we view the international scene, we are troubled by the widespread and corrosive nature of corruption in public life in many countries. The effects in the developing countries are more debilitating. Corruption distorts the economies of those countries, since, in effect, resources are taken from the poor and given to the rich. My country, as part of its war against corruption in public life, has recently ratified the Organization of American States (OAS) Convention against Corruption, which requires, among other things, the criminalizing of illicit enrichment by public officials and integrity legislation requiring a declaration of assets by certain public officials. I humbly suggest that the United Nations recognize the pervasiveness of corruption in public life and its consequent damages and take steps to approve and promote a United Nations anti-corruption convention. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has a very special and beneficial relationship with the Republic of China on Taiwan, which we value. It represents a test of friendship, loyalty, reciprocity and shared values in our relationship. The Republic of China on Taiwan, the 17th largest economy in the world, is a country of 23 million people that has made tremendous strides within a few years to become one of the most economically advanced countries in the Far East. It is a country that practices and promotes human rights. It has a Government that is democratically elected by the free and unfettered expression of its citizens. We strongly support Taiwan's rights to be a Member of this body of nations. We cannot understand how the exclusion of Taiwan, which is a peace-loving, responsible, democratic and progressive country, can sit comfortably on the collective conscience of the Member States of the United Nations. The United Nations has a role to play in relations between Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. The United Nations should play a facilitating role by providing a forum for reconciliation and rapprochement between the two sides. But — and I cannot stress this point too strongly — the United Nations cannot play such a role if it continues to exclude Taiwan. We shall continue to support the legitimate aspirations of the 23 million people of Taiwan, who remain voiceless in this Assembly, to membership in this body and its agencies, in accordance with the United Nations principle of universality. The Government and people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines also share friendship with the people and Government of Cuba. We support the worldwide call, as expressed in United Nations resolutions, for ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United States against Cuba 6 some 42 years ago. Indeed, such a call has been made by the Congress of the United States so as to facilitate the freedom of movement of United States citizens to Cuba. We uphold the right of peoples to self- determination — a principle very dear to our people and Government. It is highly improper and unacceptable to the vast majority of the nations of the world that one country impose such suffering on another without any justifiable reason. We call on the United States to heed the voices of its citizens, the Congress and the rest of the world and to engage Cuba in a meaningful dialogue for the mutual benefit of both countries. Over the past year, we have watched with growing concern the escalation of tension and violence in the Middle East. We are sensitive to the fact that efforts against international terrorism have made the lessening of tensions and the resolution of the problems in the Middle East all the more difficult. We support the plan for two States — Israel and Palestine — living as neighbours within secure borders that are recognized by each other and the international community. Once again, we call on both sides to abide by the various Security Council resolutions on the dispute. We support the efforts of the Quartet and call upon them to continue their peace-making efforts with urgency. They have our unqualified backing. In the meantime, we urge restraint and the use of common sense in the search for a full solution to the problem. We remind all sides that the greatest use of power is restraint in the use of that power. We urge the world community to make sure that all resolutions of the United Nations are enforced fairly, even-handedly and with equity on all States in conflict in the area and to avoid the appearance of selective, capricious or arbitrary enforcements where it suits the interests of some States. In South Asia, we trust that there will be a de- escalation of tensions in the Kashmiri conflict. The risks and the perils would be too great for the whole world if the two major countries involved in that conflict engage in an all-out war, resorting to nuclear weapons. We place our support behind every effort to revitalize the work of the General Assembly so that its collective energy and wisdom can again be brought to bear with great weight to resolve the gravest tensions impacting the world community. The General Assembly needs to be more dynamic in order to reflect the will of all its Member States. We also support the need for a reform of the Security Council to give cognizance to the world situation as it exists today and not as was the norm after the Second World War. We fully support the call for an increase in the membership of the Security Council and would work for the more meaningful participation of developing countries in the Security Council to reflect the universal nature of the United Nations. My country is a small island developing State. As such, we are extremely vulnerable to physical and economic shocks. We are pleased with the recognition given to the unique problems of small island developing States in the outcome of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, and we look forward to real progress in the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action, leading up to the conference in Mauritius in 2004. We continue to face the threat to our region and our oceans by the passage of hazardous nuclear waste through our waters. The world community must understand just how fragile our ecosystems are. We must reduce the risk by ending that practice, and thus we call on the guilty parties to respect the Caribbean Sea as a special zone for economic development within the context of sustainable development. I have taken this opportunity to focus our efforts towards increasing sensitivity in the international community to the concerns of our small island developing State. Our perspective is informed by our history and our experiences. Many are the challenges that confront us in a world of globalization and trade liberalization. We make our special plea for special consideration, without which we could become totally marginalized. The aspirations of our people are the same as those of other lands. We desire peace, stability, democracy, respect for human lives and economic and social uplifting. We intend to work hard to achieve those goals. Our people have come through slavery, indentureship, colonialism and imperialism, and we have survived. With the support and goodwill of the donor countries, with our hard work and with the help of the Almighty, we intend to succeed. ﻿First of all, may I congratulate President Jan Kavan, well known for his expertise in human rights, on his election to preside over this General Assembly. My congratulations also go to the outgoing President, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his hard work, and I commend the United Nations Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, whose stewardship of the Organization in these trying times is particularly admirable. I also congratulate Switzerland on its admission to membership in the Organization. This session of the General Assembly, more than in recent years, seems caught between the past and the future — a tragic past, an uncertain future. In New York, and in the world, the catastrophe of the attacks of 11 September seems so present with us that we feel its imprint still upon us, as if our souls were marked by the fall of the towers and the cruel loss of life. We feel this past as a tangible, palpable weight, and we also sense the future pressing in upon us. This past year, we have witnessed the war in Afghanistan, the fall of the Taliban and the establishment of a new Government in Kabul. Will there be intervention in Iraq, will there be more attacks in America, in Europe, or elsewhere? What will the future bring? I ask these questions as Foreign Minister of the Principality of Andorra. Andorra is a small and peaceful country nestled in the protected valleys of the Pyrenees. We have lived in peace for nearly a thousand years. And yet we are not safe from the storms that buffet the world. Because of our small size, our reliance on trade and our relations with our neighbours and the world — our diplomacy, if you will — are of the greatest importance to our well-being. As we turn to the world, so, too, the world turns to us in the tens of millions of tourists that visit us every year. Our industries, our citizens and our lives are as intimately linked to the world as to the mountains that surround us. This link was clear in the profound sadness of our people over the loss of life in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. We felt it as a visceral blow, a spontaneous expression of true sympathy. The world surrounds us, although we often feel we can do little to influence the course of events. And yet what we do know is how actively to seek peace, and thereby ensure our future. It is about the future, the idea of the future, that I wish to speak today. The future. In order to understand it, we must look not only to those events that are determining it, that are forming it even as we speak, but also to its own history as an idea. What is the history of the future? 24 Here I will only invoke, in passing, two earlier models that 500 years ago embodied our understanding of the future: God's providence and the wheel of Fortune. In the providential model of the future, God looks down on the full history of the world from “the high citadel of eternity” in the words of Thomas Aquinas. He sees everything, every grain of sand, every sparrow that falls. “There is a special providence in the fall of a sparrow” Hamlet tells Laertes in Shakespeare's great play. But alongside this Christian understanding of God's providence is another figure, the pagan figure of Fortuna, who holds her wheel on which all men, king and commoner, rise and fall. Hamlet is also aware of her power; he is buffeted by the slings and arrows of outrageous Fortune, and he longs to end his life, but he fears God's prohibition against suicide. This very prohibition, shared by all three of the great religions of the West, was broken by the suicide attacks of 11 September. So, too, the prohibition that “thou shall not kill”. Life is precious: it is given to us, and we cannot take it away. In these two models of the future, humanity is passive. We are puppets — God or Fortune pulls our strings. But gradually we drew away from this passive enslavement to our fate, our destiny, and we struggled to master the future. The change in the future is first heard in the writings of that first theorist of diplomacy, the cunning Machiavelli. In The Prince, he wrote that a ruler must learn to profit from chance, or rather turn chance to his favour. In a typically violent metaphor, he tells the Prince that Fortune must be beaten. Machiavelli counsels him to wrestle with fortune and thereby create the future. Although Machiavelli was advising an absolute monarch, and indeed his thought presaged a long period of monarchical absolutism, he understood that the rulers and the administrators could no longer afford to be passive objects of history. They had to consider, to think, to attack fortune; to hurl the slings and shoot the arrows back at her, if you will. In this shift, from passive object to active agent, the idea of the future begins its transformation. In this future, Machievelli's heirs — diplomats gathered here today — advise the modern princes, the democratically elected rulers of the world, for the general good of the people. The future becomes an idea that we build through strategy, thought and action, through laws and treaties we enter into and must obey. That is the very purpose of the United Nations, the great parliament of the world's Governments, or in a less poetic but more apt image, a great, international factory, in that it builds the future: a future, not for the wealthy or the powerful, not for some nations, but for the world and its peoples. Out of the ruins of the Second World War, the nations of the world joined to create a better future for all humanity. The belief that binds us together is the belief that together, only together, we can build a better world for all: a glorious city on the hill; a new Jerusalem; a Jerusalem of all religions, all beliefs; a city of tolerance; a city very much like New York. That is why, I think, the terrorist attacks were so painful, for New York City is very much an expression of the United Nations, a place for all of the citizens of the world, all religions and all beliefs — the city of tolerance; a city that resolutely looks forward to the future; New York: city of dreams, city of the future. Strangely, even as New York was profoundly wounded by these attacks, no other city, I think, has been so resolute in looking forward. The city was not, nor is it, spoiled by revenge. New York always looks to the future. While others may reproach the city for its indifference to its past, its forward-looking optimism is perhaps its greatest gift to the world. So when we all saw in Andorra and elsewhere the attacks on the World Trade Center, my first response was that the suicide hijackers did not know New York. They did not know that this city has brought people from all countries together. They did not know the people who would die in the collapse of the towers: people from many of the religions and countries of the world. But then I realized that perhaps they did know, that perhaps New York was their target, and that their target was the future. Or rather, their target was a future of tolerance: religious, cultural, personal. Indeed, it seems that the terrorists longed for purity, for a pure vision of the future in which the tolerance — the impurities — of New York would have no place. They believed, but not in the uncertain future of New York, the restless striving for the new. They believed that with their deaths they would enter paradise of the afterlife. They believed, sacrilegiously, that they were the means of God's providence. When the terrorists attacked America, they also attacked the future. They attacked the future of tolerance, a future controlled not by fate, but by 25 mankind. We cannot let our notion of the future fall with the towers, for the future is as fragile as the towers proved to be, perhaps more so. The future is built not of steel and stone, but of law and human sympathy. In a way, I think, at least for the moment and perhaps necessarily, the terrorist attack on the future has damaged it. It demanded a strong response: the mission in Afghanistan, the continued destruction of Al Qaeda. That is the kind of response that the perpetrators of that violence would understand; a response that cannot be seen as a sign of weakness or vulnerability. It is a logical, and therefore necessary, response that the terrorists themselves unleashed. But violence breeds violence, and the future of violence is simple destruction: nothing — and nothing will come of nothing. We run the risk of entering an endless war against a shadowy enemy; a war that, given the nature of the enemy, might prove very hard to win completely. And yet it must be won. Our first and strongest line of defence against violence is the rule of law, with diplomacy to enact it. The United States, founded on the rule of law and on rights for all, understands that. Andorra understands that, because without law we would not have survived as a country for nearly a millennium. That is why Andorra believes in and supports international law and trusts the United Nations, particularly its democratic members, to lead the world from its history of violence towards its common future. In relation to Iraq, Andorra supports the role of the United Nations, and we shall follow carefully the debates in the Security Council. Terrorism is not a conventional war: there can be no treaties, no compacts, with terrorists. Law is vital for all countries, but terrorists do not care about laws. They are without a country and pose a particular danger and challenge. In that sense, we must embark on an aggressive reaching out to all people, an aggressive assertion of our common humanity. That might well be a media campaign, although it needs to come directly from all elected politicians and ministers. We are not trying to abstract issues or win a war of words. We need to pull everybody into the human compact. We need to recognize our individual vulnerability. It was America's belief in its invulnerability that was so profoundly shaken by the terrorist attack. Yet if the sudden collapse of the towers and the fear and chaos of that day revealed a weakness, it also revealed strength: the strength of its citizens' resolve and the profound sympathy of all the peoples of the world. In the wake of 11 September we recognize both the need for the rule of law and the cause of that need: the vulnerability of all people to malevolent attack. The motto of Andorra is Virtus Unita Fortior, which can be loosely translated as “United We Stand”. That is not simply an appeal to patriotism or for a common front against the enemy. It is a recognition that together people are stronger, because alone we are weak and vulnerable. Nothing can justify the attack of 11 September 2001. It is nevertheless important, here in the General Assembly, to consider the roots of violence. The terrorists turned their anger and alienation — political, cultural, economic and personal — into an abstract act of inhuman cruelty whose “solution” was the attack on the towers. Only in the cold world of abstraction does that attack symbolize anything beyond untold suffering. We need to pull violence back from abstraction into the world of human conversation. If people feel excluded from the future, their alienation gives them a mad and violent certainty. We must get to work to rebuild an inclusive and tolerant idea of the future, an idea that is all too easily forgotten in war, an idea of the future in which everybody is protected from those who would destroy it, an idea of the future so strong that it includes those people who might otherwise be tempted by the madness of playing God. That future is premised on awareness, not of the strength of the nuclear nations or of powerful economies, but of the vulnerability of this compact and of individual nations large and small. We must recognize the power of our vulnerability, for in this recognition, we recover our strength, our vision of a common future and the will to act together. It is together that we will win the war against terrorism.   ﻿Let me begin by welcoming Switzerland, our western neighbour, as a full member of the United Nations and her first participation in the General Assembly after her accession. Without our Swiss friends the United Nations would not be complete. Expanding the global reach of the United Nations can be seen as a positive aspect of globalization. Having supported United Nations efforts to bring about a solution to the East Timor conflict for many years, Austria also looks forward to 27 September and wishes to congratulate East Timor on becoming the 191st Member of the United Nations. Austria fully aligns itself with the statement made by the Prime Minister of Denmark on behalf of the European Union. I should like to add a few observations to that very comprehensive statement. Let me reiterate the sympathy of the Austrian people for the victims of 11 September 2001. Austria has shown strong solidarity from the first hour after the attacks and has acted in unison with her European partners and the United Nations to combat terrorism — a resolve that remains strong and will continue to do so. As a former staff member of the United Nations, I wish to convey my country's sincere gratitude to the many dedicated people who are in the service of the United Nations in New York and at the other headquarters in Vienna and Geneva, as well as out there in the field, for their efforts on behalf of the international community in its fight against terror. Combating terrorism requires a global effort and a comprehensive approach: prevention and the protection of the security of our countries and of the basic values of freedom and human rights, as well as coercive measures as a last resort. We must, however, base our decisions and actions on international law. The Security Council's Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) under the very able leadership of Sir Jeremy Greenstock, Ambassador of the United Kingdom, is at the core of the United Nations coordinating role. We must ensure that all States join and can join those efforts. To promote that goal, Austria hosted a symposium on combating international terrorism at the Vienna International Centre in June of this year, which highlighted the capacity of the Vienna-based United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention (ODCCP) to provide efficient technical assistance to Member States in their fight against terrorism. Austria will make an additional million euros available for the strengthening of the ODCCP. I am glad to note that Secretary-General Kofi Annan shares our view on the importance of the Vienna-based United Nations units, as expressed in his report on the need to strengthen the Terrorism Prevention Branch of the Secretariat. The report of Policy Working Group on the United Nations and Terrorism published earlier this week comes to the same conclusion. I therefore call upon the Member States to support that position. It is also important to remind ourselves that the fight against terrorism cannot be fought with soldiers and policemen alone; we also need to fight the root causes: the abject levels of poverty, inequality, 16 injustice, the lack of sustainable development and of good governance. When it comes to dangers for world security, we also have to focus on unresolved and perilous regional conflicts, such as in the Middle East. What is needed is an effort to speedily arrive at a political solution providing for two States, Israel and Palestine, within secure and recognized borders. Austria seconds the idea of an early international conference with the support of the Quartet and interested countries of the region aimed at finding solutions to the political issues such as the final borders of the two States, the final status of Jerusalem and the question of refugees. Austria considers the newly designed road map of the European Union towards the establishment of an independent and sovereign Palestinian State in the next three years to be a good basis for achieving a final and comprehensive settlement of the conflict in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002), taking into consideration the Arab peace plan adopted in Beirut as well. While continuing to respect the elected leadership of the Palestinian people the European Union has expressed its readiness to give all necessary and possible support to the reform process of the Palestinian Authority. Austria participates actively in those efforts. Austria is also deeply concerned that human suffering in the conflict has attained unacceptable levels, be it as a result of terror or of countermeasures. The Middle East has also garnered the attention of the international community in the context of the danger of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The growing tensions result from the continued non-compliance with United Nations Security Council resolutions on the part of Iraq. The potential threat of weapons of mass destruction endangering world peace through such policies should not and cannot be tolerated. For that reason Austria supports the tireless efforts of the Secretary-General to bring about the speedy, unfettered and unconditional return of United Nations weapons inspectors to Iraq, along with full compliance with the obligations contained in all relevant Security Council resolutions. Austria welcomes the statement of President George Bush seeking broad international and multilateral support and cooperation with the Security Council on the issue of how to deal with the threat emanating from regimes that support terror or seek to acquire weapons of mass destruction. Only the Security Council can provide the legitimacy we need. At the same time, it is evident that the Security Council itself has to take responsibility for ensuring full compliance with its resolutions in order to maintain world peace. The conflict between India and Pakistan over the issue of Kashmir also needs an urgent political solution. The consequences of an escalation could be catastrophic for the region and beyond. In recent weeks, we have been starkly reminded of the fact that Afghanistan, which has been wrested from Taliban and Al Qaeda rule and has had a promising new start with the assistance of the international community, has yet to achieve a lasting peace and stability. The international community should remain committed and has to continue its support of the new Government of Afghanistan. The fight against terrorism and violent fundamentalism in Afghanistan has also highlighted the importance of the whole region of Central Asia. During its chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in 2000, Austria made it a priority to draw the attention of world opinion to the unresolved issues and problems and to the very impressive potential of that region given mutually useful cooperation and good governance. Turning to our own neighbourhood, I want to reiterate the importance Austria attributes to European Union enlargement and our firm commitment to finalizing the ongoing negotiating process towards the end of this year. Austria looks forward to welcoming new members by 2004, thus turning the vision of a united Europe into reality and extending the European zone of peace, stability and welfare to the whole continent and beyond. I am glad to note that South-Eastern Europe has made substantial progress towards stability generated by various multilateral initiatives, particularly the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe and the Zagreb process. As an additional instrument for enhancing development in that region, in May of this year the Danube Cooperation Project was launched in Vienna, the aim of which is to make use of the Danube River as an integrative factor connecting the 13 countries of the whole Danube basin. 17 The dialogue among civilizations, which Austria has strongly supported from the beginning, is a new and important tool of diplomacy that should help us drain the breeding grounds of terrorism. In order to take this dialogue from the elites to the general public, we need to cooperate with the media. To that end, I organized an expert seminar on the role of the media in the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership in June of this year. This effort is designed to lead, hopefully, to a media code of conduct to emanate from the media themselves in order to create better understanding between the cultures and commonly to project messages shedding a positive light on cultural diversity. As of July of this year, Austria has chaired the Human Security Network, the only interregional grouping in the United Nations framework particularly propelling issues of human security. In my capacity as Chairperson of that group, I have put the following two issues at the top of our agenda: the needs for a globally shared acquisition of a human rights culture through human rights education and for effectively addressing the terrible plight suffered by an ever-growing number of children in the world exposed to the horrors of armed conflict. The first “human rights city” in Europe, the Austrian city of Graz, will also host next year's ministerial meeting of the Human Security Network. In this context I should also like to express Austria's strong support for the adoption of the draft protocol of the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. In my function as President of the Human Security Network, I have also taken the initiative, in the framework of the group of female foreign ministers, to raise the issue of Amina Lawal in a common letter to the Foreign Minister of Nigeria in order to remind Nigeria of its obligations under international human rights law. In the Millennium Declaration, we set clear targets for our combined development efforts as Member States. We all did this in recognition of the priority attached to the fight against poverty and for a better and more equitable world. Disastrous floods in parts of Central Europe, including my own country, in Asia and the Americas, as well as droughts in other parts of the world just before the start of the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, were a painful indication of changes rendering sustainable development even more important. The Summit brought about an action programme and a political declaration, which we welcome, although we would have wished to take some issues even further, such as in the field of renewable energy. I share the view of the Secretary-General that the Summit has instigated global action among a wide range of actors. It has highlighted the relationship between economy, ecology, social issues and development. It has also reaffirmed the Doha and Monterrey compromises. The follow-up will have to cut through the complexities of the process and to pursue the most pressing issues. Implementation is the key word. This will be best accomplished by sectoral conferences on the major issues involved. Austria appreciates that the Summit has helped convince some major countries to join the ranks of those, such as Austria, that have already ratified the Kyoto Protocol. Before closing, let me express my best wishes for a successful session of the Assembly under Mr. Kavan's guidance and allow me also to thank his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his leadership and his efforts towards strengthening the General Assembly. Having returned deeply impressed from South Africa, let me close by quoting a real hero and a man who stands for his principles while promoting reconciliation — Mr. Nelson Mandela. The following quote is from the entrance to the Apartheid Museum in Johannesburg, which I just visited: “To be free is not merely to put off one's chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.” ﻿It is difficult to come to New York at this time without recalling the dreadful events of exactly one year ago, which brought the whole of the international community together in support of this country, and this city. On this occasion, we reiterate our solidarity and our conviction that the best way to cope with terrorism is within the multilateral framework, and above all here at the United Nations. I also take this opportunity to convey our appreciation to Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea for his excellent presidency of the last session. I would also like to congratulate you most sincerely, Sir, on having assumed the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. I have no doubt that your proven ability and recognized experience as an academic, a statesman and an official in the Czech Republic and abroad will enable you to guide our deliberations successfully. We also congratulate the Swiss Confederation and Timor-Leste, the former one of the oldest countries in the world, and the latter the youngest: one is now a full Member of the Organization, and the other soon will be. I would like to address two subjects. The first is developments within Guatemala, particularly regarding fulfilment of the peace agreements, in whose negotiation and subsequent implementation the United Nations played such a significant part. The second area I shall be addressing relates to our position on the most important items on the agenda of this session. On the first subject, let me say that the past year has been marked by intense activity in Guatemala. There were important advances, but also some setbacks. We confront an unfavourable international situation that has had a negative effect on our economy. Conditions have been made more complex by a severe drop in the price of our traditional export products. Unusual rainfall patterns have affected the production of grain in several regions. I make these points because it would certainly be easier to comply fully with the commitments contained in the peace agreements in a context of economic expansion, instead of having to do so in the face of serious fiscal restrictions and increasing demands on our Government. Yet we have made headway, even when we had to take decisions that were politically unpopular but that were necessary to attain the goals of the peace agreements. This was the case with our tax reform, which included an increase in the value added tax. That reform is already in force, and my Government has thereby fulfilled one of the specific commitments of the peace agreements. This measure laid a financial foundation without which the fulfilment of other peace commitments and maintenance of macroeconomic stability would simply have been unthinkable. It has fallen to me to preside over the first Government of Guatemala in the new era of peace. The peace agreements were our second declaration of independence and they mark the road to building a tolerant and non-exclusionary society, a State that is democratic, participatory and where the rule of law prevails. During my administration public expenditure has focused on education; but we also address, as matters of priority, access to land and the reduction of poverty. Guatemala is a country of marked contrasts between wealth and poverty. We labour under age-old conditions of injustice. We turned to the Government to promote reform for the well-being of our people, particularly indigenous peoples, children, women, peasants and the victims of the internal armed conflict. Reforms are essential in order to uphold democracy. 8 There is powerful resistance to change, and this carries political and even personal costs. But our commitment to democracy, social justice and equity is unshakeable. There are just too many things to do in Guatemala. After governing for three years, our awareness of what is lacking makes us feel dissatisfied. On gender equality, we have made some progress on the institutional plane, and we now, jointly with the women's movement, have forged an approach with the effect of State policy. We are promoting educational reform, literacy campaigns, scholarships for girls in the rural areas and country-wide nutritional programmes in schools. We are working also on poverty reduction strategies. These are long-range policies, whose results will be fully enjoyed only by later generations. The recent enactment of three laws a reformed municipal code, a law on development councils and a law on decentralization forms the basis for the most far- reaching reform of the State to have occurred in 100 years. The peace agreements are comprehensive in their scope. We have promoted a substantive social agenda, and we have adopted measures towards free markets. We have undertaken reforms in the area of security, although much remains to be done. The military is now focusing increasingly on national defence. We have reduced the number of military personnel as well as their functions, and some of the resources thus freed up will be been used for public education and civilian security services. Military reconversion, however, will not be easy; we will have to make a special effort to achieve a smaller and better equipped army. Civilians are preparing to take over more complex roles and society is being called upon to participate in elaborating important public policies, such as overall public security and national defence. We are fostering dialogue with civil society on important issues such as agriculture and rural development, transparency, combating corruption and providing compensation and reparation for victims of armed conflict. Our aspirations do not stop there, however. Guatemala has not yet achieved full reconciliation. We need to reconcile the elements of our society and provide opportunities for development without excluding anyone. Essential steps for achieving reconciliation include identifying all the parties to the conflict, making symbolic gestures to repair the damage done, finding out and acknowledging the truth about what took place, allowing justice a free hand and promoting forgiveness. Our nation has undertaken these tasks in a diligent manner, although some uncertainty persists. My Government's term of office will expire in a little over a year, by which time the United Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala (MINUGUA) will be planning to withdraw. The Mission has played a fundamental role as the critical conscience of the State and has actively supported the fundamental changes that have taken place. We appreciate the work that it has done and we would like here to request the extension of its mandate to the end of 2004 so that it may accompany us as we make the transition to a new Administration. Our hope is that MINUGUA will hand over its functions in an orderly manner to national bodies and, where appropriate, to the programmes and agencies of the United Nations. Let me turn now to the agenda for this session. First of all, I would like to reiterate our full and unconditional support for the United Nations as the highest form of multilateralism. We are convinced that this Organization will have to play a crucial role in the twenty-first century. We believe that the Millennium Declaration provides an adequate road map enabling us to set out our priorities and the steps to be taken to fulfil the goals set. Its implementation has been given a powerful boost by the Monterrey Consensus and the Plan of Action adopted in Johannesburg a few days ago. We also fully support the stewardship of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. We agree that this Organization must adapt to the challenges of globalization. We are aware that progress has been made in this respect in recent years, but much remains to be done. In this context, we look forward with great interest to the new reform proposals to be submitted by the Secretary-General towards the end of the month. We pledge to participate actively in analysing and debating them. Few would doubt that Security Council reform is the most urgent of the outstanding reform efforts. We must not delay our efforts to ensure that that organ is made more effective, representative and transparent. To that end, we advocate the expansion of the membership of the Council and believe that the veto power should 9 be used strictly in conformity with the United Nations Charter. We also believe that it is necessary to strengthen the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council so that the three principal organs of the United Nations mutually support one another. We reiterate our total rejection of all forms of terrorism, and support collective action by the international community to combat that scourge through, inter alia, action in accordance with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We believe that we must strengthen our collective capacity to prevent and resolve conflicts, whether of a transboundary or internal character. With regard to disarmament, we favour the complete elimination of nuclear, chemical and bacteriological weapons, an end to the illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons and a ban on the use of anti-personnel landmines and other explosive devices. We support all United Nations actions aimed at achieving such goals as well as at establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones in all parts of the world. We believe in particular that the United Nations must continue to address the development challenge. Working with the multilateral financial institutions, our Organization must play a crucial role in ensuring that the benefits of globalization are widely shared among all countries. This will require common efforts within countries and in the international community as a whole. Furthermore, Guatemala is a party to the principal environmental treaties, and we reiterate our commitment to maintaining the ecological equilibrium of the Earth. We recently made a contribution in this respect by offering to host the headquarters of the secretariat of the Convention for Cooperation in the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Marine and Coastal Environment of the North-East Pacific. We participated actively in drafting that Convention. My country is aware of the divisions between sister peoples in the Middle East, Asia and Africa. We fervently hope that it will be possible to resolve those differences by peaceful means through dialogue so that, without discrimination, all the peoples of the world can be represented here. I would like to make special reference to the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan, whose aspirations to participate in the work of international organizations have not yet been fulfilled. The countries of Central America in general, and Guatemala in particular, view those aspirations as beneficial to global peace and democracy; they deserve our support. It is likewise our earnest hope that a solution will be found, based on security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 1397 (2002) and 1402 (2002) to the difficult situation in the Middle East, which has worsened over the past year. Finally, we reaffirm our strong support for Central American integration and our commitment to the other countries of Latin American and the Caribbean. The Government of Guatemala has participated in important initiatives in the area of regional and subregional integration. In that connection, I would like to point out that, in accordance with a constitutional mandate, Guatemala has done its best to strengthen bonds of friendship and good-neighbourliness with the State of Belize, without prejudice to the active search for a peaceful, honourable, equitable and permanent solution to our territorial dispute, which dates back over a century. On Monday, 16 September, at the headquarters of the Organization of American States, the representatives of our two countries will be presented with the conclusions and recommendations of a conciliation process that has taken place under the auspices of that organization. Any definitive settlement will have to be approved by referendum in Guatemala. We commend the solidarity displayed by the Government of the Republic of Honduras with a view to facilitating amicably the delimitation of the maritime areas in the Gulf of Honduras. In conclusion, I would like to quote a Guatemalan poet, Otto RenÈ Castillo, who was a victim of internal armed conflict. Fifty years ago, he wrote: Smiles will return to the face of humanity, because children born in the twenty-first century will be happy. Our mission must be to make this come true. Such is the goal of our tireless struggle.   ﻿I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. It is our expectation that your able stewardship will enable 28 the work of this session to result in tangible progress. I also appreciate the efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan towards international peace and sustainable development. I am going to contribute to the work of the General Assembly by presenting a perspective on the situation of the Korean peninsula, which remains a major concern in terms of world peace and security. More than 50 years have passed since the division of Korea by outside forces. As the Korean people undergo immeasurable pain and misfortune due to the division of the country and the nation, the world realizes that, as long as the homogeneous Korean nation remains artificially divided, Korea will never be peaceful, nor will peace and security be possible there. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea made reunification the supreme national task from the first day of the division, and has since adhered to its stand with respect to achieving reunification independently, through dialogue and negotiation between the North and South of Korea. The fatherly leader of our people, President Kim Il Sung, long ago set forth the principles and programmes for reunifying the country independently through peaceful national unity. He proposed achieving reunification by means of a federation system where different ideas and systems would continue to exist in the North and the South. He devoted all his efforts to national reunification up until the moment he died. The respected General Kim Jong Il has defined three main charters for national reunification as: the three principles of national reunification; the 10-Point Programme for the Great Unity of the Whole Nation; and the proposal on founding the Democratic Federal Republic of Koryo put forward by the fatherly leader. These provide a basis for the country's reunification. It is thanks to the ideas of national independence and national unity of the respected General Kim Jong Il that the historic inter-Korean summit meeting took place in Pyongyang in June 2000 and that the North- South Joint Declaration was adopted; this served as a turning point in the efforts of the Korean people for the country's reunification. The 15 June 2000 North-South Joint Declaration is a declaration of national independence and peaceful reunification calling for opposing foreign interference and achieving reunification by the concerted efforts of the Korean nation. After the publication of the North-South Joint Declaration, the North and the South held talks and engaged in contacts in various fields, seeking ways and means to achieve reconciliation and unity. They discussed measures for cooperation, exchanges and relaxation of tension in Korea; thus the spirit of reunification on the Korean peninsula gained momentum. However, the positive development of inter- Korean relations was frustrated by the interference of external forces, and the North-South Joint Declaration thus faced major obstacles. It is fortunate indeed that inter-Korean relations have now been put back on track through the dialogue and contacts on implementing the Joint Declaration, held in recent months at the initiative of the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The ministerial-level talks were resumed. Dialogue and contacts in other fields are under way, and a national reunification meeting of compatriots from the North, the South and overseas was held successfully on the occasion of the 15 August Korean restoration day. The North and the South have jointly introduced an agenda item entitled Peace, security and reunification on the Korean Peninsula' at the current session of the General Assembly and have agreed to draw up and submit a draft resolution under that item. Governments and peoples of many countries are supporting and welcoming the emerging dÈtente on the Korean peninsula as well as the trend towards reconciliation and cooperation between the North and the South. The history of division for more than 50 years is a serious lesson for all Korean people. If the reunification of the country is to be achieved, the North and the South should, above all, reject foreign interference, which is a main obstacle to reunification, and should join efforts on the basis of ideas of national independence and great national unity. The modern history of Korea serves as a clear illustration of the high price paid and the great sacrifices made in succumbing to foreign intervention and relying on outside forces. The division of Korea was imposed by outside forces after the Second World War. It was neither the will nor a requirement of the Korean people. It is none other than those same foreign 29 forces that continue to shadow inter-Korean relations at every stage of their favourable development and that undermine the interests of the Korean nation. Recourse to foreign forces and complicit action with them against fellow countrymen are inevitably destined to lead to mistrust and confrontation in inter-Korean relations. We are firmly convinced that we can resolve all problems in the interests of the Korean nation by transcending the differences in ideologies and systems existing between the North and the South, if the North and the South sit together in the spirit of national independence and the love of country and people. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea will, in the future, make every effort to achieve independent reunification through a federation system that unites the strength of the entire Korean nation in the spirit of the North-South Joint Declaration. In order to ensure peace and security on the Korean peninsula and realize reunification, the hostile policy of the United States against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea should be terminated. The United States defines the Democratic People's Republic of Korea as its prime enemy' that poses a threat' to it. It also designates us as the axis of evil' and target of a pre-emptive nuclear strike' on the pretext of anti-terrorism,' thus further aggravating the situation. It is quite unreasonable that the United States antagonizes and threatens us with the use of force for the sole reason that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea firmly adheres to an independent policy and holds different values and ideas. This also contravenes the United Nations Charter and the norms of international relations. It is entirely as a result of the consistent peace-loving policy and efforts of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea that peace is maintained on the Korean peninsula. Our position on relations between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States is ever principled and consistent. If the United States respects our system and sovereignty and takes an attitude of goodwill towards us, we can develop relations with the United States based on the principles of equality and mutual benefit. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea considers that it is most reasonable to solve pending issues between itself and the United States through dialogue and negotiations. We had therefore already agreed to the United States suggestion that it send a special envoy with a view to presenting its position on the resumption of dialogue. Furthermore, during the conversation between our Foreign Minister and United States Secretary of State at the 9th meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum in July, we again welcomed the United States willingness to send its special envoy to Pyongyang. The point is that trustful dialogue can be resumed only when the United States refrains from its hostile policy against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and maintains a position of equality with us. If the United States intends to have a substantial dialogue with us on the principle of sovereign equality, we will respond accordingly. This will facilitate confidence-building between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the United States and open up the prospect for hammering out a fair solution to the pending issues. The United Nations should also do its due part for the peace and security of Korea. In this regard, I wish to remind you that immeasurable suffering and misfortune were imposed on the Korean peninsula under the name and flag of the United Nations. It is highly expected that the United Nations will soon seek to redress the abnormal circumstances under which its name has been misused for over 50 years. We take pride in contributing positively to peace and security on the Korean peninsula, the Northeast Asian region and the world in general, even under the constant threats and confrontations that have persisted for more than 50 years. Our great leader, General Kim Jong Il, leads our people wisely with his army-based policies aimed at defending the country, building a powerful nation and providing for a favourable environment for peace and reunification in Korea, thanks to his energetic and untiring external activities. The respected General Kim Jong Il had a meeting with President Putin in the Far East region of the Russian Federation in August this year, and is holding talks with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan in Pyongyang today, 17 September. These contacts serve as turning points in the development of relations 30 between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Russia, the normalization of relations between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Japan, and also serve as a great contribution to world peace, security and the creation of a new and just world structure. Our people will, in the future, firmly defend our socialist system and achieve peace and the reunification of the Korean peninsula under the outstanding army-based leadership of the respected General Kim Jong Il, thus fulfilling our mission for peace and security in the world. Radical changes have taken place in the international arena since the 11 September incident.' Attempts to expand the war against terrorism' without justifiable reasons continue and the policy of power supremacy has emerged, openly advocating a theory of pre-emptive nuclear attack beyond the doctrine of nuclear deterrence, thus further challenging world peace and security. Hunger, poverty and external debts have become worse, while the inequality in international economic and trade relations and the gap between the rich and the poor have widened further. All these actions and events in international relations entirely contravene the spirit of the United Nations Charter. My delegation considers that the most pressing task before United Nations Members today is to respect and uphold the spirit enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Above all, the sovereignty and equality of all countries should be respected. The use of force, the application of coercive measures and, in particular, unilateral acts should not be allowed in international relations. To this end, the power of the United Nations General Assembly should be decisively enhanced. The General Assembly should be empowered to review the issues concerning international peace and security and to approve major decisions of the Security Council in this regard. At present, the General Assembly is not even properly carrying out its intrinsic power as stipulated in the United Nations Charter. International issues, such as conflict resolution, disarmament, terrorism and sustainable development, should be discussed and decided with the full participation of all United Nations Members, in conformity with the purposes and principles of the United Nations. It is also important that democracy and impartiality be ensured in all United Nations activities and the work of reforming the Security Council, in particular, is undertaken to make it true to its main purpose. The Security Council should be reformed in such a way as to properly reflect present reality, where almost all countries have become United Nations Members, and fully ensure impartiality and democracy. In order to achieve the purposes of the United Nations, fair international economic and trade relations should be established and the right to development respected. Unless the present unfair international economic system is redressed, poverty cannot be eliminated, nor can the gap between the rich and the poor be removed, nor sustainable development for all be ensured. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea will, as ever, make all efforts to uphold and achieve the purposes and principles of the United Nations on the basis of the ideas of independence, peace and friendship. ﻿On behalf of the delegation of the Republic of Benin, allow me to convey to Mr. Jan Kavan our heartfelt congratulations on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. His skills, his extensive experience in international affairs and his dedication to the lofty causes championed by the United Nations guarantee the success of our work. I wish to assure him of my delegation's full cooperation and support in ensuring the full success of the work of this session. I should like to take this opportunity also to congratulate and to thank his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, who presided so ably and with such dedication over the work of the fifty-sixth session of the Assembly. I wish also to pay tribute to our Secretary- General, Kofi Annan, whose devotion and skills have enhanced the prestige of our Organization. The message that I bring the Assembly from Benin is a message of peace, which our people are experiencing, and a message of the preservation of peace in all its aspects, in keeping with the Charter of our Organization and with the Millennium Declaration, in which we pledged to build for future generations a world free from fear, hunger and ignorance. 24 The barbaric acts perpetrated a year ago, on 11 September 2001 here in New York and in other places, are still vivid in our memory, making ever more urgent the need to make greater strides in our common endeavour of civilization. The sincere and spontaneous compassion and sympathy of the peoples of the world for the victims of the terrible attacks of 11 September prove that more than ever before we are bound by a common destiny. It is therefore vital to give real meaning to this solidarity and this shared responsibility. The United Nations must continue to play a dynamic role in the promotion of international cooperation in order to prevent and punish acts of terrorism. For Benin, nothing — no pretext whatsoever — could justify such barbaric acts, and the terrifying images that I am loath to recall today will remain etched in our collective memory throughout the twenty-first century. Benin's firm commitment to combating terrorism is unambiguous, and we intend to fight this scourge with resolve. Thus, pursuant to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), adopted on 28 September 2001, Benin submitted a report on the measures we have taken to prevent and punish acts of terrorism. A constructive and effective dialogue is under way with the Security Council Committee regarding proposed measures to prevent and suppress the financing of acts of terrorism. However, the anti-terrorist campaign will be more effective and more comprehensive if it is organized on the basis of strict respect for the purposes and principles of the United Nations. We believe that there is an urgent need for a clear, precise, legal definition of international terrorism in order to prevent the haphazard character of our individual or collective initiatives from jeopardizing the effectiveness of the global coalition against the terrorist threat. By placing Africa at the centre of its concerns for the new millennium, the United Nations has rightly focused the attention of the international community on that continent, which, despite its commendable efforts, is having difficulty finding its way towards development. The persistence of war and conflict, which repeatedly lead to great bloodshed in that part of the world, is one of the main reasons for that situation. Aware that, as it faces new challenges, our continent is at a critical stage in its development and that it is for Africa to shoulder its own responsibilities, African leaders have taken a number of political initiatives aimed at resolving conflict, rising to the great challenge of endowing Africa with new forums for dialogue and action. This African renaissance, by means of which Africa is determined to take control of its own destiny and find solutions to its ills, should be encouraged through support for the African Union, which was launched in Durban, South Africa, in July this year. The African Union espouses the vision of the founding fathers of the African nations and of the former Organization of African Unity. The African Union is different from the Organization of African Unity because it stresses the need for the economic integration of the continent and affirms that peace, security and stability are indispensable conditions for the creation of an environment conducive to development and that good governance must be the norm for our States. I wish to reaffirm what many earlier speakers have said: Africa is beginning to play its proper role. It looks forward to a concrete demonstration of the goodwill so often expressed by the international community. It looks forward to real action in the form of deeds. We expect this for the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), for example. Under the wise guidance of the President of the General Assembly, we spent an entire day debating that African Union programme. Relevant remarks were uttered, commitments undertaken and forceful statements made from this very rostrum, and I do not need to dwell further on that subject. Now is the time for action, and time is of the essence. Globalization must become synonymous with a better life for all the peoples of the world. The world cannot just stand by and watch the spectacle of an Africa that has been marginalized and ravaged by wars and disease. Africa must not be an object of condescension, as if the world did not have sufficient resources to avert catastrophe. I am sure that our collective awareness is real and sincere. That is why I welcome the timely initiative of the Security Council to establish an Ad Hoc Working Group on Conflict Prevention and Resolution in Africa. We hope that that initiative will demonstrate a genuine, ongoing commitment on the part of the Security Council to act to put an end to the cycle of violence in Africa, thereby according equal treatment to all humanitarian crises without exception. 25 In the context of collective efforts to consider and deal with the question of conflict prevention and resolution through a comprehensive, integrated approach that takes into account political, economic and social dimensions, my delegation recommends reinforced interaction between the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, in particular by developing close consultations with the Ad Hoc Advisory Group of the Economic and Social Council on African countries emerging from conflict. One of the most encouraging signs for Africa in recent years — indeed in recent months — is the firm determination finally to put an end to fratricidal warfare. We must support such efforts everywhere, including in Sierra Leone, Angola, Congo, Eritrea and Ethiopia. I want to comment in particular on Sierra Leone, which has successfully emerged from a risky and dangerous electoral process. I would like to take this opportunity to pay a well-deserved tribute to the United Nations and to the countries which, at the bilateral level, have been helping Sierra Leone to reintegrate itself into the community of nations. I hope that the positive evolution of the situation in that country will have a ripple effect within the Mano River Union. I welcome the outstanding progress that has been made in the process towards the restoration of peace and security in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In that respect, I would like to pay a well-deserved tribute to President Thabo Mbeki and to the facilitator, Sir Ketumile Masire, for their commitment and perseverance. We welcome the fact that the guns have now been silenced in Angola after so many years of suffering, destruction and privation. It is crucial to strengthen and consolidate the peace process that is under way in that country. That is why I urgently appeal to the international community to provide support that is commensurate with the enormous reconstruction needs of Angola. Only thus will conditions be right for the establishment of lasting peace and sustainable development. I am pleased to note, among the initiatives to promote peace in Africa, the success of negotiations on an agreement on the demarcation of the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea and the continuing dialogue to restore peace in Burundi and the Sudan. In January this year, 49 of the poorest countries of the world chose my country, Benin, to hold the chairmanship of the coordinating office for the least developed countries. When we accepted that prestigious post, my Government was well aware of the heavy responsibilities that we were assuming. The most important item on mankind's agenda today is sustainable development. Any progress — or any regression — must be assessed by the group of countries that Benin is now coordinating. The international community itself recognizes that many problems remain. The Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries noted with regret that previous goals had not been achieved, and it clearly identified the main obstacles to the development of the least developed countries. These include the continuing decrease in official development assistance, the debt burden, the difficulty of gaining access to the markets of the developed countries and the lack of foreign investment. By adopting a Programme of Action and a Political Declaration at Brussels, the international community renewed its commitment to helping the least developed countries resolutely to deal with mechanisms whose operations increase poverty. Mindful of the need to mobilize energy and increase capacity in order thoroughly to implement the Brussels Programme of Action, the least developed countries took the initiative of meeting at Cotonou, from 5 to 7 August 2002, in order to consider ways and means of ensuring the implementation of the Programme. The Cotonou conference formulated guidelines and made recommendations, contained in the important Cotonou Declaration. At the national level, the Declaration recommends the establishment of an implementation and follow-up mechanism to monitor integration of the Programme of Action into national development programmes and to promote the creation of a national forum for dialogue. It also recommends that the least developed countries design their strategic development priorities in keeping with local contexts. That is an important factor for guaranteeing rationality and national ownership of policies. At the international level, United Nations and other international agencies are called on to incorporate the Programme of Action into their work programmes and Government processes. 26 I believe it important to call attention to the dangerous dwindling of resources available to the operational institutions of the United Nations system — particularly the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Capital Development Fund, the United Nations Children's Fund and the World Health Organization — and to stress the crucial need to find ways and means of increasing those resources in order to strengthen these agencies' valuable efforts to combat poverty in our countries. The Cotonou ministerial meeting also recommended the establishment of a synoptic table to be used by the Economic and Social Council when it reviews and follows up the implementation of the Programme of Action by the least developed countries and their development partners. I wish at this point to reiterate our gratification and thanks to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the celerity with which he implemented the decision taken by the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session to establish the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States. The Secretary-General nominated Ambassador Chowdhury of Bangladesh to that important post, which he has already assumed. In nominating Ambassador Chowdhury, the Secretary-General could not have made a more fortunate choice. We all know Ambassador Chowdhury and his great experience, resolve and dedication. His country, Bangladesh, has served the group of least developed countries with distinction for 20 years. I salute that work today. The Secretary-General and each one of us must now offer every assistance to Ambassador Chowdhury and his Office in becoming fully operational and in carrying out his important mission of obtaining the resources necessary for action. To that end, it is important that every Member of the United Nations, even the poorest, make some effort, for example, by contributing to the Trust Fund to support the implementation of the Brussels Programme of Action. The Government of Benin will assume all its responsibilities in that respect in due course. In Johannesburg recently, at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, the international community acknowledged its responsibility to the poor, the vulnerable and the marginalized as members of the great human family. It also recognized the need to conclude a world alliance for sustainable development, by which the developed countries would make the essential effort of solidarity with the poorest. A giant step forward was taken there, but action is now required. We fervently hope today that all the measures advocated in Johannesburg will become a reality. If they do not, there will be no reduction, but an increase in poverty. We can stave off that danger, which is deadly for all of us. ﻿The delegation of Equatorial Guinea congratulates you, Mr. President, and the other members of the Bureau of this session of the General Assembly on their election to their posts. We wish them every success and offer them our full cooperation. We also wish to convey to the outgoing President and Bureau the appreciation of Equatorial Guinea for their excellent work at a crucial time in the history of the United Nations. The delegation, the people and the Government of Equatorial Guinea welcome the admission of the Swiss Confederation to full membership in the United Nations. Switzerland is a country with which Equatorial Guinea has excellent relations of friendship and cooperation. This was indeed a historic event that strengthened and reaffirmed the principle of the universality of the United Nations. We also welcome the forthcoming admission of Timor-Leste to the United Nations. I wish strongly to join Equatorial Guinea's voice to the expressions of support and solidarity that have been heard from this rostrum towards the people and the Government of the United States of America one year after the horror and the barbarity caused by the shameful terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. We reaffirm once again Equatorial Guinea's firm commitment to the ceaseless fight against international terrorism and organized crime in all its forms and manifestations, because this is a fight that involves all the nations of the world, united by the ideal of maintaining peace, and because terrorism represents a serious challenge to humanity as a whole. Indeed, terrorism has become a sophisticated network of political, economic and technical plotting that transcends national borders. These are real organizations that have the resources to carry out criminal activity. Even more disturbing are manifestations of covert terrorism carried out under the pretext of defending and protecting democracy and human rights. This leads us to declare that one cannot combat terrorism in certain areas and encourage it in others, depending on who the potential victims may be. Equatorial Guinea and other countries in our subregion continue to be victims of this ambiguity and contradiction. The demands made on our countries and the conditionalities imposed on us in the name of promoting democracy and human rights must not serve as a pretext for encouraging intolerance or political extremism or for instigating confrontation among the various social groupings in a country so as to weaken its sense of unity and solidarity. 15 Time and again we have stressed the imperative need to preserve peace and security in the world. The international community has to reactivate its machinery for conflict prevention and settlement, because these conflicts are a scourge on vast areas of the world in general, and to the African continent in particular. Because of its geography, Equatorial Guinea is seriously concerned about constant serious threats to the maintenance of peace and stability in Central Africa resulting from disputes and greed for the enormous natural resources located there. Because of the geo-strategic importance of the subregion, we want to preserve a balance of force in the Gulf of Guinea, and we want to preserve our area as a haven of peace, stability and prosperity for our peoples. The United Nations must be vigilant, given the threats to peace, security and stability in the Gulf of Guinea. In the specific case of Equatorial Guinea, I would like to say that for over 25 years it was under United Nations supervision, vis-‡-vis human rights, but that on 19 April 2002 at the fifty-eighth session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights resolution 2002/11 was adopted. The resolution ended the Special Rapporteur's mission for human rights in Equatorial Guinea. The Commission on Human Rights therein explicitly recognized the efforts made by our Government and the progress made by our country in the area of human rights and strengthening democracy. However, we were deeply distressed a few days later to see that our country was a victim of attempted terrorist action against the life of individuals and social peace. Those responsible were arrested and will now be tried under our law. Yet, some pressure groups with undeclared interests in Equatorial Guinea have spoken out and have been trying to use the forthcoming trial as a basis for launching a new campaign of defamation against my country in the face of these acts of destabilization. In addition, these groups are still seeking to confuse the issue and to keep the international community uninformed as to the true political, economic and social developments in Equatorial Guinea. These groups have been trying to disrupt a good climate of dialogue and understanding between our Government and the political forces in our country. However, as concerns these manoeuvres, I would reaffirm to the international community our resolve to preserve the spirit of trying to reach consensus with all the political groupings in our country to ensure that the forthcoming presidential elections proceed smoothly. The situation we have just described is not peculiar to Equatorial Guinea, because the same situation can be seen in several countries in our subregion. My country is resolved to ensure that Central Africa becomes an area of peace, solidarity and cooperation. We hail the initiatives under way to restore peace to Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi, and we commend the work of the United Nations to that end. The picture of conflict and instability in the world today stands in stark contrast to our desire to encourage economic development and prosperity for all countries of the world. Just a few days ago in Johannesburg, at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, the international community undertook to work in solidarity to achieve the goals set at Rio de Janeiro, the Millennium Summit and Monterrey. To that end, it is essential that a new civilization and a new political culture bud and take root in the consciousness of the international community, recognizing once and for all that all nations of the world, rich and poor, large and small, enjoy the same rights to peace, stability and prosperity. This is essential if we are to survive the current crisis. This General Assembly faces the challenge of resolving burning issues, such as combating HIV/AIDS and implementing the goals of the Millennium Declaration and the Johannesburg Consensus. My Government shares these concerns and urges that top priority be given to strengthening the democratic process and the rule of law, protecting human rights, ensuring good governance and achieving sustainable development. We also believe that the peace process in the Middle East should be encouraged, along with the dialogue under way between North and South Korea, with a view to peaceful reunification. We also encourage democratization in the United Nations itself, so that it can strengthen its efforts in the world as the principal guarantor of international peace and security. This General Assembly session, just like the meetings at Johannesburg and other summits, provides an excellent opportunity, not for reviving an anachronistic confrontation between nations, but rather 16 for moving deeper into the area of reaching agreement and of holding a dialogue in the great debate for the progress and prosperity of all peoples in the world.   ﻿First of all, Sir, please allow me to offer my warmest congratulations on your assumption of the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly. I wish also to express my gratitude to Mr. Han Seung-soo, President of the previous session of the Assembly. I wish to congratulate the Swiss Confederation on having joined the United Nations and also to welcome the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, which will soon become a Member of the Organization. The opening of this session coincides with the first anniversary of the events of 11 September. Over the past year, the international campaign against terrorism has made headway, and now we should not only ponder ways to eradicate the global scourge of terrorism, but also take a broader view of the security issues facing humankind and seek to achieve lasting peace and universal security. At present, the international security situation is undergoing profound changes. Security has begun to take on wider connotations. While traditional military antagonism and conflicts have yet to be eliminated, a variety of non-traditional security concerns have become increasingly prominent. Security is no longer a purely military concern. It has permeated politics, economics, finance, science, technology, culture and many other areas. Security is no longer a zero-sum game. Its mutuality is obviously on the increase, as countries have come to realize that they have common security interests and feel a greater sense of interdependence. We must overhaul the tools at our disposal to achieve security. Military means alone have proved inadequate in meeting the massive and complex security challenges facing us. The indiscriminate use of force can only lead to greater trouble in our world. This new situation calls for new ideas in the area of safeguarding security. We in China believe in a new security concept that features mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality and cooperation. By mutual trust, we mean that countries should rise above their differing ideologies and social systems, abandon the cold-war mentality and the power politics mindset, and refrain from harbouring suspicion and hostility towards each other. They should hold frequent dialogues and mutual briefings on their security and defence policies or on the major actions they are about to take. By mutual benefit, we mean that a country should respect the security interests of others while pursuing its own, and also help to create conditions for enhancing the security of others while making itself more secure thus achieving universal security. By equality, we mean that all countries large or small, strong or weak should respect each other, treat each other as equals and refrain from interfering in each other's internal affairs, so that international relations can become more democratized. By cooperation, we mean that countries should resolve their disputes through peaceful negotiations, engage in extensive and close cooperation on their shared security concerns and work to prevent wars and conflicts. All in all, our new security concept is aimed at increasing mutual trust through dialogue and at promoting common security through cooperation. It is in the spirit of this new security concept that we in China have been working hard to promote mechanisms for a regional security dialogue and cooperation, actively participating in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum, and endeavouring to establish an Asia-Pacific security framework that is for dialogue and against confrontation. China is actively committed to international arms control, disarmament and the non-proliferation process. Not long ago, the Chinese Government promulgated the Regulations on Export Controls of Missiles and Related Items and Technologies and its Control List. The Chinese Government will make further improvements on its export-management mechanisms for biological and chemical dual-use items. We call on the international community actively to undertake dialogue and cooperation in the spirit of this new security concept, in a joint effort to tackle the major security concerns of the day. We should press ahead with international cooperation against terrorism and curb the threat of international terrorism once and for all. Counter-terrorism should be pursued on the basis of international law and of the norms governing 16 international relations, allowing the United Nations and its Security Council to play a leading role. It should take a comprehensive approach, with a focus on eliminating the root causes of terrorism. Efforts should be made to prevent the arbitrary enlargement of the scope of the counter-terrorism campaign, but proven terrorists, including the East Turkestan terrorist forces trained, armed and bankrolled by the Taliban and Al Qaeda must be resolutely stamped out. We should step up dialogue and reconciliation processes and facilitate the settlement of regional hot- spot issues. China supports the Palestinian people and their just cause to regain their legitimate national rights and to establish their own State. We support the relevant Security Council resolutions and the principle of land for peace. We are opposed to violence targeting innocent civilians, and we reject responding to violence with violence. We stand for a political settlement of the question of Iraq. The United Nations should play an important role in this regard. Iraq should implement the relevant Security Council resolutions in a faithful and strict manner. We hope that India and Pakistan will soon resume dialogue on the basis of equality and mutual respect and resolve all their differences, including that over Kashmir, through peaceful means. We will continue to work constructively for a lasting peace in Afghanistan and its post-war rehabilitation. We support the important role of the United Nations in this regard. We should strengthen exchanges and dialogues among different civilizations and thereby avert conflict or confrontation. Differences among diverse civilizations are a basic characteristic of humanity. We have every reason to treat the achievements of various civilizations kindly and to promote exchanges among them on the basis of respect for diversity. Everyone is encouraged to draw upon the strength of others with a view to realizing common development. Peace and development go hand in hand. Many of the problems we face today may be development- related. In coping with these challenges, it is all the more important to look to development for answers. In the past year, the United Nations has held a series of important meetings on development such as the World Summit on Sustainable Development. What is needed, right now, is to translate the programmes and commitments into reality. In the past year, regional economic cooperation has continued to move forward. We feel especially happy about the launching of the African Union, convinced that Africa will now take fresh strides on the road to development. At present, our development tasks have become more pressing. The widening wealth gap in the world must be reversed. Frequent economic and social shocks must be dealt with. The sharpening clashes between economic development, on the one hand, and resources and the environment, on the other, must be allayed. The international order and the rules of the game, which do not fairly reflect the needs of developing countries, must be changed. We would like to make the following propositions. First, to establish a global partnership geared to development. Governments, international organizations, transnational corporations and non- governmental groups are all parties to the cause of development. The North and the South, the aid- recipient countries and international aid institutions, should be equal and cooperative partners in dealing with the global economic slowdown. The developed countries ought to lend developing countries a helping hand. The new round of multilateral trade talks should be seized as an important opportunity for forging such a new partnership. Secondly, to promote a balanced and steady development in the context of economic globalization. The international community needs to reform current roles in the world economy, strengthen guidance and management of the globalization process and promote a win-win situation and coexistence among countries. Thirdly, to strengthen the developing countries' capacity for self-development. Developing countries should opt for a development path suited to them and strive to catch up with the tide of global economic development. The international community should respect the right of developing countries to independently choose a development path, and help them with capacity-building. Fourthly, in order to continue on the path of sustainable development, we should promote a balanced development of the economy, population, resources and the environment. Efforts to address the 17 environmental problems of individual countries should be combined with those aimed at global concerns. Fifthly, to enhance comprehensive development of the people. Human resources are the primary resources for advancing science and technology and for realizing economic and social development. In formulating development strategies, countries should make the people their top priority and main beneficiary. The Communist Party of China will soon hold its sixteenth national Congress, the very first in the new century. Standing in the forefront of the historical tide and displaying a spirit of progressing with the times, this party Congress will draw up a new blueprint for accelerating socialist modernization in China. Our guiding thought is to consistently represent the development requirements of China's advanced productive forces, represent the orientation of China's advanced culture and represent the fundamental interests of the overwhelming majority of the Chinese people. Our historic mission is to accelerate the drive for modernization, complete the reunification of the motherland, maintain world peace and promote common development. The first 10 to 20 years of this century present China with an important strategic window of opportunity for its development. While taking development as our number one priority, we must grasp the opportunities, deepen reform, open the country still wider to the outside world, promote development and maintain stability. We will continue to pursue an independent foreign policy of peace, actively develop friendly relations in cooperation with all countries in the world on the basis of the five principles of peaceful coexistence, and facilitate international dialogue and cooperation, thus contributing constructively to a fairer and more equitable international order. There is but one China in the world. Both the mainland and Taiwan belong to that one China, and China's sovereignty and territorial integrity brook no division. The Chinese Government adheres to the basic policy of peaceful reunification and one country, two systems; and President Jiang Zemin's eight point proposal on how to develop cross-strait' relations and promote a peaceful reunification of the motherland for the current stage. We are firm in our opposition to all forms of Taiwanese independence activities and will tolerate no attempt to separate Taiwan from the rest of China in any fashion. All acts of Taiwan independence are doomed to failure and our grand cause of national reunification will triumph. ﻿As I offer you my congratulations upon your assumption of your high office, Mr. President, I must also praise your 6 predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for a truly exemplary term as President, which was marked at the outset by the Nobel Peace Prize for the Organization and which closed with the promise of the recently concluded World Summit on Sustainable Development. Together with the continuing leadership of Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the support of the Organization's Member States, I look forward to that tradition of excellence and achievement continuing under your presidency, Sir. I add my voice to the chorus within this Assembly warmly welcoming the Swiss Confederation to our fold and congratulating East Timor on its forthcoming accession to membership. Tonga very much looks forward to working with both of them as fully-fledged States Members of the Organization. While 11 September 2001 will for all of us be ever present, it is fitting that we pause to remember those who fell in the line of duty and those other loved ones who perished on that terrible day. Those horrific events should serve to inspire us to rededicate ourselves and galvanize our collective efforts to fight the scourge of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. My Government continues to formulate measures in compliance with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). These measures have both national and regional dimensions, and a number of workshops have been held in the Pacific region during the year to ensure that Pacific island countries formulate viable counter-terrorism measures and to assist them to do so. A number of key Government agencies, including civil aviation, immigration, police, finance and customs agencies, have already adopted measures, including financial and rapid reaction security measures, to tighten the security aspect of the resolution. Obviously, the sustained assistance of developed countries in our region has been very useful in our endeavours. It is our earnest hope that our required country report will be before the Counter-Terrorism Committee by the year's end. In this respect, I am grateful to the Committee and to the Security Council for their patience. Since I last addressed this Assembly, at the Millennium Summit, there have been further signposts to add to the developmental path. These are signposts so readily identifiable as Doha, Monterrey and, now, Johannesburg. These names epitomize the vision and the as yet unfulfilled promise of our collective development aspirations in this era of globalization. In that regard, I commend President Fox and the people of Mexico for their sterling efforts earlier this year. It was pleasing that consensus prevailed on critical thematic issues of particular import to developing countries, and we look forward to the opportunities that Monterrey will afford. I further commend President Mbeki and the people of South Africa for their wonderful achievement earlier this month. I am particularly pleased that the Johannesburg Summit gave prominence and profile in the Plan of Implementation to the sustainable development of small island developing States. In that regard, Tonga looks forward to the 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action in 2004 as a further signpost in the developmental path that will give impetus to what was achieved in Johannesburg. In preparing for that review, Tonga will continue its national efforts to refine and identify areas for specific priority capacity-building needs, as well as opportunities to take increased advantage of financial and technological support. As a developing ocean State, we are encouraged by the particular commitments in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation on fish stocks and fishing practices. The implementation of those time-bound commitments requires responsibility and good faith from all parties so as to ensure that States like mine obtain their fair share of their vastest and most bountiful resource. We are pleased that the United Nations fish stocks Agreement has entered into force and welcome the informal meeting of States parties that took place here in New York recently. In this respect, we urge other Member States to become party to that important Agreement. Within this context, we also continue to welcome the preparations under way for giving effect to the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean. The Convention is a testament to our commitment to conserving and sustainably managing a critically important resource. As such, we continue to urge the distant water fishing nations with a real fisheries interest in our region to make every effort to become a party to the Convention. Tonga continues to value the work and decisions taken this year of the Meeting of States Parties to the United Convention on the Law of the Sea, the International Seabed Authority and the third meeting of the United Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea. We look forward to an important milestone 7 later this year: the twentieth anniversary of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. I hope that Member States will consider the upcoming anniversary as an opportune time to become a party to the Convention. Our region has further endorsed a first-ever regional oceans policy that elaborates some guiding principles that should serve as a template for countries like Tonga to consider using to developing national ocean policies that strengthen coordination and complementarity in our ocean-related activities. One activity that continues to give rise to deep concern is the transshipment of radioactive material through the waters of our region. In this regard, while we might understand the needs and requirements of those States that engage in this activity, it is just as important that the necessary framework for prior notice, consent, safety and compensation for countries like Tonga not be ignored. Tonga continues to support the development of an appropriate environmental vulnerability index for small island developing States and commends the continuing work of the South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission in that regard. It is our belief that, with the participation of States, such an index has the potential to provide accurate indicators of vulnerability to which small islands in particular are exposed, such as natural disasters, climate change and sea level rise. As such, Tonga welcomes the commitment by certain Annex I countries under the Kyoto Protocol made during the Johannesburg Summit to ratify the Protocol and the further opportunities for progress that such positive action presents. On 30 and 31 December 2001, tropical cyclone Waka traversed the northern group of Tonga with a wind velocity in excess of 100 miles an hour and resulted in substantial and horrific damage to those islands. To be sure, the damage was estimated at over 140 million Tongan dollars, but thankfully there was no loss of life. The inevitable and difficult task of relief, recovery and reconstruction was compounded by the geographic distance from the capital of the northern group and the sheer scale of the damage sustained. Luckily, action by traditional donor Governments and our neighbours within the region, territorial governments, regional and international organizations, such as the Pacific Islands Forum and specific United Nations agencies, was swift and generous and provided much-needed assistance to my Government. I am deeply grateful to those Governments, organizations and agencies, as well as to non-governmental organizations and churches, for their valued assistance in our time of crisis. Two weeks after the cyclone, nature, having wrought such devastating winds, caused more favourable weather to prevail, which greatly helped the replanting phases of recovery. We expect a resurgence of the critical agricultural, tourism and fisheries sectors by the end of the year. While information and communications technology (ICT) remains the way to go, we continue with our own efforts to bridge the digital divide and take maximum advantage of the digital revolution. To do so will require joint efforts in tandem with the international community and the United Nations, particularly through the efforts of the United Nations ICT Task Force as one avenue. Such efforts must be characterized by partnership and inclusion in the ICT process, so that all developing States in every region can benefit. The United Nations role of bridging, coordinating and integrating activities is therefore crucial. In that respect, we urge continued support for the Small Island Developing States Information Network (SIDSNet) and for efforts to strengthen its capacity to support and assist small island developing States. We welcome the fruitful outcome earlier this year of the General Assembly special session on children. While we recognize the promise it holds for the welfare and well-being of all children, like the outcome of the recent special session on HIV/AIDS, commitments must progress beyond rhetoric into concrete action. Tonga fully supports the work of the Security Council and, like other speakers before me, calls for the full implementation of all of its resolutions to ensure an enduring peace in arenas of conflict and to lift the veil of doubt where such doubt could lead to conflict. In one such arena, we join the call for an end to violence, a return to the negotiating table and the building of confidence so as to realize the coexistence of two States, side by side in secure and recognized borders. Tonga also supports efforts to streamline the work of the General Assembly so that it can play the pivotal and focused role we desire. In like terms, we support the call for reform of the Security Council, in which the number of both permanent and non-permanent seats 8 would be increased to accord with and respond to today's realities. Finally, with respect to pertinent regional issues, Tonga endorses the views expressed in both the Nadi Declaration, contained in document A/56/1015, and the Suva Communiqué, that will be contained in document A/57/331. They are the respective outcomes of the third Summit of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Heads of State and Government, held in Nadi, Fiji, in July 2002, and of the annual meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum Leaders held in Suva, Fiji, in August 2002.   ﻿As we welcome our newest members, Switzerland and East Timor, we reaffirm our faith in the United Nations and in the principles of the Charter. Today, the United Nations faces more challenges and must respond to far more demands than were ever contemplated by its founders. Yet the Organization remains the single most important universal and viable forum for States to interact, for nations to work together and for countries to cooperate in preserving peace, in avoiding conflict and in promoting stability. We believe that Iraq took a step in the right direction when it agreed yesterday to the unconditional return of United Nations weapons inspectors. But the immediate challenge facing the Organization and our world is the looming confrontation that could be brought about by the need for Iraq to comply, totally and unconditionally, with the relevant Security Council resolutions. We credit the diplomatic skills and the sheer determination of Secretary-General Kofi Annan and of the members of the Arab League with this welcome development. We will, therefore, await clear proof of sincerity in action. But this is just a beginning. We believe that we are far from a true resolution of this issue. We must remain vigilant and must continue to have faith in the Security Council. The Philippines has full confidence in the Council process. We believe that the Council will act in accordance with the imperatives of world peace and security and that it will find the most expeditious and effective way to serve those imperatives. Consistent with its national interest, and in accordance with its Constitution, the Philippines is prepared to extend political, security and humanitarian assistance to the United States and to the international community in the pursuit of their most vital interest, which coincides with our own vital interests: to defeat terrorism. The case for compliance is compelling. The charges are highly credible and have serious implications for global security. The Security Council should give those charges the most urgent and profound consideration. The international community has put the onus on Iraq to comply with the relevant Council resolutions, especially with regard to the elimination of weapons of mass destruction. Yet we certainly live in a world of consequences that can be avoided. Poverty, intolerance and inequality provide the breeding ground for terrorism. But we need not make terrorism an unavoidable consequence of those factors. We have learned that in the one year since the shocking and tragic events of 11 September. In that short span of time, we have learned that terrorism cannot defeat us and that it cannot overcome our resolve to fight it, and we have learned the full 13 measure of the bravery of the men and women who stand on the front lines in the war against terror. In that short span of time, we have established new strategic partnerships and have retooled and rearmed existing strategic partnerships. Those partnerships are based on the belief that the world will never be secure unless terrorist lairs are exposed and destroyed and unless terrorist supporters are brought to justice. In the realm of what is just and what is fair, we know that globalization can contribute to the comprehensive and sustainable development of the developing world. Indeed, in some cases it has done so. But the gap between the rich and poor countries continues to widen. Let us again remind ourselves of the stark reality that 1.2 billion people live on less than $1 a day; 1.1 billion people lack access to safe and affordable drinking water; and 130 million school-age children, the majority of whom are girls, lack the means to stay in school. The uneven spread of opportunities for the creation of wealth, and the increasing income inequality within and between countries, have pushed larger numbers of people to the margins of existence. We in the Philippines are building an open economy. We are taking concrete measures to create an open trade and investment environment in our own country and in our region. We have adapted to the realities of globalization, fully aware of the concomitant risks, particularly those that impinge on the well-being of our vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. We firmly believe that, in general, developing countries accept the need for good governance in their public and corporate sectors. We are continuing our institutional reform, guided by our national priorities, requirements and capabilities. We are taking great pains to restructure our economy, often at high political cost. Capital is what developing countries lack most in their pursuit of sustainable development. The Food and Agriculture Organization has estimated that an additional annual public investment of $24 billion must be made in poor countries in order to halve the number of hungry people by the United Nations millennium target date of 2015. Developing countries need more foreign direct investment, particularly in areas that will promote the sustainable use of the environment and sustained growth. We also need improved access to foreign markets. Many developing countries must also effectively compete in areas where their comparative advantage is great, such as agriculture. However, developing countries do not have the resources to match the subsidies that agricultural producers receive in rich countries, such as the 40 billion euros that European Union farmers receive each year or the additional $170 billion that United States farmers will receive over the next 10 years. We can only wonder what the liberating impact would be on development if the subsidies of 23 cents per dollar for farm goods in the United States or the 36 cents per dollar on farm goods in the European Union were instead invested in developing countries. We need to reverse the decline in official development assistance, which remains below the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product. But we should also not lose sight of the fact that, aside from increased funding sources for developing countries, the flip side of the development coin should be greater restraint, care and flexibility in the use of conditionalities. Enhanced and effective debt relief, including for middle-income countries, is also needed. Efforts to reform the international financial architecture and to strengthen the development dimension of the global trade and investment regime should be sustained. Globalization has provided more opportunities and greater choices for people who want to travel the world in search of a livelihood. Some 10 per cent of the people of the Philippines are outside its border. Their safety and welfare is of paramount importance to us, particularly in times of actual or potential conflict. The welfare of migrant workers should be placed higher on the United Nations agenda now, before the migrant issue turns into a serious humanitarian problem. We can start by becoming States parties to the United Nations Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. It is also important for developed nations to support the important work of humanitarian assistance agencies like the International Organization for Migration. Despite the unprecedented wealth created in the last decade of the twentieth century, one out of every 14 five people lives on less than $1 a day. The 32 poorest African countries do not earn much more than the richest man on earth, the title unofficially bestowed upon Bill Gates, the Chairman of Microsoft, in the United States. Despite the grinding poverty in which billions of people live, the world spends incredible sums for military purposes for armies and weapons of mass annihilation. Those bent on fomenting hate and violence will find willing adherents, particularly among the helpless, and hopeless poor, the dispossessed and the disenfranchised. The hungry, the young people who do not go to school and those living in the margins of society can become easy prey to the siren songs of terrorists and the perpetrators of violence. Poverty alleviation and development are therefore key strategies in preventing conflict and fighting terrorism. Terrorism has become a major cause of violence and instability in our world. But this is not the only menace to our collective security. Organized crime, environmental degradation and contagious diseases continue to threaten international peace and security. The proliferation of conventional and non-conventional weapons, including small arms, is continuing. Civil wars and inter-State conflicts remain major causes of instability and underdevelopment. The United Nations must therefore continue to play its important peacekeeping and peacemaking role. Durable peace and progress with freedom can be achieved only through international partnerships and a renewed faith in the United Nations, which should guarantee meaningful participation by developing countries in global decision-making. The challenges of the world today potential and actual conflict, terrorism, violence, environmental degradation, organized crime and contagious diseases recognize no boundaries and affect all. In the eloquent language of the Philadelphia Declaration of the International Labour Organization, poverty anywhere constitutes a danger to prosperity everywhere'. That is the case because humanity and human destiny has become a seamless whole. No man is an island, and the bell tolls for us, too. This is the timeless vision of the United Nations, validated by all who have spoken here at the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. It is a vision and a bond that should unite all nations as we face new dangers and the unmarked frontiers of our collective life on this small, endangered planet. Indeed, the United Nations continues to be the last best hope of mankind. ﻿I wish at the outset to extend to you, Sir, and to your friendly country, the Czech Republic, warm congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. Your record of prudence and diplomatic skill will certainly be instrumental in meeting the lofty goals sought by all nations and peoples. A word of thanks and tribute goes to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his outstanding stewardship of the fifty- sixth session. Two States are being admitted to the membership of our Organization: the Swiss Confederation and, soon, the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste. Despite 9 their differing histories, each will strengthen the fabric and enrich the tapestry of the United Nations. Jordan bids a warm welcome to both of them and wishes them well. The opening of the current session coincided with the first anniversary of the heinous terrorist attacks against New York City, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania. As I reiterate Jordan's condemnation of those terrorist acts, let me express once again our deep condolences and sympathy to the families of the thousands of victims who lost their lives as a result of the cowardly and criminal acts that targeted our Organization's host city and host nation. The list of victims is multinational, multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multicultural. That graphically illustrates the fact that terrorism is indeed blind to all those criteria. The international community rose to the occasion when it provided a prompt, collective, decisive response. Indeed, it was the United Nations itself that provided the forum for a global coalition underpinned by both our common political will and the compelling case before us. Thus, the Assembly adopted resolution 56/1, while the Security Council adopted its resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001). That set of decisions, embraced by our world body, which represents all human cultures, ideologies and ethnicities, created the official platform for launching the ongoing global campaign against terrorism. My country, Jordan, has also suffered from terrorism and its evils. Terrorists have struck at our national symbols, our citizens and our interests because of our principled positions, foremost among them our firm commitment to fight terrorism. All along, Jordan has been in the vanguard of every international effort aimed at hunting down this plague and confronting it, including by draining its resources as part of an overall drive to uproot it altogether. In parallel, Jordan's stance is clear-cut and decisive. We reject and condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We have declared in no uncertain terms this firm conviction against terrorism, irrespective of its source, the perpetrators or the identity of the victims. Furthermore, we allow no room for any justification whatsoever, including any possible arguments on religious, ethnic or national grounds. Thus, Jordan treats all forms of terrorism as criminal acts. In the same context, let me stress our conviction that the eradication of terrorism is a common goal of all States and societies. I wish therefore to draw the Assembly's attention to the blatant tendency, driven by pernicious and wicked intentions, to falsely link terrorism to a specific religion or culture. I trust that this gathering shares my view that it is now imperative to confront these dubious attempts. Indeed, dealing with such schemes is indispensable if we are to maintain the sustained and concerted campaign to achieve the paramount objective: the total eradication of terrorism. The current situation in the Middle East is extremely dangerous. The whole landscape is constantly changing for the worse, especially in the occupied Palestinian territories. Israel's reoccupation of the Palestinian Authority's territories and the perpetuation of this occupation, together with the measures and policies emanating thereof, particularly policies of closure and siege, have created intolerable living conditions for the Palestinian people. These unbearable conditions have prompted several humanitarian agencies and international organs to declare a state of emergency. Israeli measures to strangle the Palestinian people economically and politically, with a view to bringing the Palestinians to their knees and to coercing them into surrendering their rights, have reached inadmissible levels of seriousness. Malnutrition rates among the Palestinian population have doubled. Diseases related to malnutrition and hunger have become widespread, particularly among children, women and the elderly. The joint impact of all these factors has created breeding grounds for frustration and despair, which inevitably generate hatred, grudges and violence. Therefore, this situation must be addressed effectively and expeditiously. We hope that the first move will come from Israel in the form of ending its occupation of Palestinian towns without delay. We also expect Israel to cease forthwith its policies of closures and siege. It is in Israel's interest to pursue constructive policies towards the Palestinians in order to restore mutual confidence and to rehabilitate the values of reconciliation and coexistence between the two peoples. It is our considered view that Israel's current approach is irrational, as it results in excessive use of force, which in turn fuels and deepens hatred and replenishes the sources of violence. 10 While we welcome the few visible signs of relief, as reflected in the accord reached by the Palestinian and Israeli sides on 19 August 2002, which calls for progressive withdrawal by Israel from certain Palestinian towns that have been reoccupied by Israel, we call on Israel to implement faithfully and expeditiously Security Council resolution 1402 (2002), which provides for full Israeli withdrawal from all Palestinian cities. From a political and humanitarian point of view, Jordan stands against targeting Israeli civilians and concurs with the need to address the whole spectrum of security issues. However, it maintains that the only viable course for addressing the Palestinian-Israeli question lies in the resumption of the peace process as a whole, from the point where it stalled and within the agreed framework established on the basis of complete Israeli withdrawal from all Arab territories occupied since 1967, including the Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese territories; the establishment of an independent Palestinian State with East Jerusalem as its capital, pursuant to relevant Security Council resolutions, particularly 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 425 (1978) and 1397 (2002). In that context, I wish to stress the significance of the initiative adopted by the Arab leaders at the Beirut Arab Summit last March. That initiative outlined a balanced approach in terms of practical ideas and arguments that demonstrate beyond any doubt a genuine pan-Arab commitment to just, lasting and comprehensive peace. That plan is a pledge by Arab States to conclude peace agreements with Israel in return for its complete withdrawal from the Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese territories to the 4 June 1967 borders, the establishment of an independent Palestinian State with East Jerusalem its capital and finding a just and agreed solution to the Palestinian refugees question on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions. I trust that the Government of Israel will rise to the level of the hopes and aspirations of the Arab peoples and the people of Israel to live in peace, justice and dignity. We hope that the Government of Israel will be forthcoming in response to that balanced and sincere initiative, which gained the acceptance of all States and parties interested in the peace process. Furthermore, this initiative is also in line with the vision and the commitment outlined by President George W. Bush of the United States on the form and aim of a final solution on the Palestinian-Israeli track based on the establishment of an independent Palestinian state existing alongside the State of Israel by mid-2005 at the latest. In that regard, Jordan supports efforts being made to draw up a clear road map leading to the implementation of President Bush's commitment through, first, defining the obligations of both the Palestinian and Israeli sides; secondly, setting a clear timetable for all phases of carrying out those obligations so that the deadline for the birth of the independent Palestinian State will not, under any circumstances, extend beyond mid-2005; and, thirdly, agreeing to the creation of an international supervisory mechanism that ensures the timely and orderly implementation of those measures as well as monitoring the implementation process. We hope that this vision will be examined at the Quartet meeting in New York within the next few days, with a view to adopting it into a plan of action and a comprehensive international obligation. Subsequently, the parties will embark on the implementation process within the specified framework, whose outcome will be the establishment of an independent Palestinian State within less than three years. We also hope that this achievement will generate a fresh impetus to conclude comprehensive peace on the Syrian-Israeli and Lebanese-Israeli tracks within the same time frame. In compliance with the United Nations principles enshrined in the Charter, particularly Article 2, paragraph 4, which prohibits the threat or use of force in international relations, and considering that this right is exclusively assigned to the Security Council so that the Council may exercise it in case of a breach of international peace and security, Jordan believes that the most appropriate means for resolving the matters outstanding between the United Nations and Iraq is to ensure the immediate and full implementation of all relevant Security Council resolutions, including those relating to Kuwaiti prisoners and missing persons as well as to the return of the weapons inspectors. If these conditions are met, the people of Iraq, who have been suffering for too long, would be saved from military action that would exacerbate that suffering. The aforementioned formula would also spare the entire region the dire consequences of military operations. In the context of emphasizing the principle of resolving disputes by peaceful means, we invite the Islamic Republic of Iran to respond to the call made by the United Arab Emirates to reach a peaceful settlement of the problem of the three islands. We urge Iran to accept referral of this case to the International Court of Justice. We also encourage the efforts made by the two sides in Cyprus to reach a just and peaceful solution to the Cypriot question. We also call for the peaceful resolution of the dispute between India and Pakistan over Kashmir. We have no doubt that the Assembly will support and strengthen those efforts. Jordan recognizes the nature of the transformations that have taken place in international relations and the global landscape over the past decade. Thus, we stress the need for the United Nations to adapt accordingly, through effective streamlining, so that it will maintain its relevance as the primary international forum of global cooperation and coordination in all human fields. A robust United Nations would also remain the true embodiment of the hopes and the aspirations of all mankind. Here, I wish to pay special tribute to Secretary- General Kofi Annan for the foresight, dynamism and flexibility he brings into play while performing his duties. Those fine personal qualities enhance his impressive performance, which Jordan supports and appreciates. In closing, I would like to warmly welcome the establishment of the International Criminal Court and the entry into force of its Statute. Our expectation is that the Court will enhance the great principles and purposes of the United Nations itself. Let me underline our absolute support for all efforts aimed at strengthening and revitalizing the United Nations system, including the ongoing structural reform exercise and the review of Security Council membership with a view to its expansion in order to make it more representative of the new international realities. Finally, I wish the Assembly all success in its deliberations.  ﻿Yesterday we stood united in remembrance of all those who lost their lives a year ago. The terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 were an attack on us all. We, the States Members of the United Nations made this clear a year ago in this Hall. Today we stand united in unwavering determination in the struggle against international terrorism and in the fight for the values, ideals and human rights that this great Organization is founded upon. To succeed in our fight against terrorism, we must meet three crucial priorities. First of all, as terrorism is a global threat, our response must be global and comprehensive. To succeed, the global coalition to combat international terrorism must be maintained and further strengthened. We must continue our common efforts to prevent and eradicate terrorism, and to bring the perpetrators to justice. We must deny the terrorists access to weapons of mass destruction. We must continue to fight terrorism with all necessary means political, diplomatic, legal, financial and military. We must ensure that we are fighting terrorism on our own terms, upholding the values, the rights and the freedoms that the terrorists so despise. Secondly, we must strengthen our common efforts to maintain peace and security. A multilateral approach to global challenges requires relevant and effective institutions. Effective multilateralism calls for a strong United Nations and effective regional organizations. Norway stands fully behind efforts to strengthen the United Nations. Thirdly, we must focus on root causes. I call on all Member States to fight extremism and fanaticism, to protect and promote human rights, to resolve conflicts and to eradicate poverty. That is why to invest in development is to invest in peace. The Millennium Declaration set out the precise objectives to which we all are committed. We cannot afford to fail. Development must be built on a global partnership, in which all partners have clear responsibilities. At the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg a week ago, we reaffirmed our commitment to the Rio principles and agreements, to the Millennium Goals, to Doha and to Monterrey. Together these agreements and declarations have given us a platform for renewed efforts towards our common goal of sustainable development. The Summit in Johannesburg also demonstrated that promoting development and protecting the environment must go hand in hand. Now it is up to us to make it all happen. Making it happen requires that we commit to precise and ambitious aims within the most pressing areas of concern. We tried to do so in Johannesburg, especially in the areas of water, energy, health, agriculture and biodiversity. Making it happen requires investment in people: education, respect for human rights, the empowerment of women, and the empowerment of the poor. We need more equitable sharing of wealth within and among nations. Making it happen requires courageous and enlightened leadership. Good governance is indispensable for sustainable development. Making it happen requires strong international institutions, both to monitor and to act on behalf of us all. Last but not least, making it happen requires financial resources. I urge the leaders of industrialized countries to make speedy progress towards the 0.7 per cent target for official development assistance. Norway intends to increase development assistance to 1 per cent of its gross domestic product by 2005. The cycle of violence in the Middle East must be broken. We must all help to bring the conflict out of its deadlock. Israel has a legitimate right to self-defence, but a human disaster is unfolding before our eyes in the Palestinian areas. I urge the Palestinians to deal effectively with the terror. The terrorist attacks must end. I urge the Government of Israel to recommit itself to the political process while halting military operations and withdrawing its forces. Only a political process aiming at an independent Palestinian State and security for Israel can lead to peace. As the country holding the chairmanship of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee, Norway is working with other donors to help rebuild economic and social infrastructure, while ensuring reforms in the Palestinian areas through our work in the established Task Force on Palestinian Reform. We must continue our assistance in the years to come in the troubled and war-torn country of Afghanistan. We condemn the recent attacks against the lawfully appointed leaders of Afghanistan. The fight against the remaining groups of terrorists must continue. I pledge Norway's continued support to 22 Afghanistan. As the country holding the chairmanship of the Afghan Support Group, we have focused on the need for both humanitarian assistance and long-term reconstruction aid. A sustained international presence is essential. Winter is approaching, and as many as 6 million people are threatened with famine. We must also ensure the protection of human rights, in particular the rights of girls and women. Iraq must address the unresolved disarmament issues in accordance with Security Council resolutions. This means immediate and unconditional cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors. It is up to the Iraqi leadership to allay international fears and to prove that Iraq does not possess weapons of mass destruction. It is up to Saddam Hussein to step out of isolation and bring Iraq back into the world community. Political and diplomatic efforts to achieve these goals have not yet been exhausted. Iraq must immediately comply with United Nations demands. The responsibility for non-compliance lies with Iraq alone. Further action by the international community must be rooted in the United Nations. The international community must stay fully engaged in resolving the conflicts that still prevail in many parts of Africa. Parties to armed conflicts must continue to show political will and ensure that diplomatic progress is translated into real results on the ground, including in the Great Lakes region. Too many have suffered for too long from armed conflict. In the peace process between Ethiopia and Eritrea, we have seen that progress is possible when the parties and the United Nations work closely together. The search for peace and stability in the Horn of Africa must also focus on resolving the conflicts in Somalia and Sudan. Over the years, Norway has been actively involved as a facilitator in the settlement process of a number of armed conflicts. In Sri Lanka, we have witnessed significant progress over the past few months. A ceasefire agreement between the Government and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam came into force at the end of February. The agreement has laid the foundation for direct political negotiations, which will begin in Thailand next week. Norway is strongly committed to the protection and promotion of human rights. Human rights are the platform for enabling people to choose and to develop their full potential. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, openness and democracy are values and principles we share. However, common values and principles are of little value if they do not lead to concrete results to the benefit of the individual. Many of the problems we are facing are directly related to the fact that the very human rights and values we have all committed ourselves to are not being lived up to. This we see in Burma, and in other countries as well. As leaders, we have a responsibility to protect our citizens. We must focus on human security and protection from violence. Civilians are targeted or used as instruments of intimidation and terror. Women and children are increasingly vulnerable. Relief workers and others who volunteer to help people in need are subject to deliberate attacks and acts of violence. Our commitment to human security means that we must effectively apply international humanitarian law. The entry into force of the Statute of the International Criminal Court is unprecedented. The Court represents a decisive step towards the end of impunity for the most serious crimes against humanity. We need an independent, effective and credible Court. We must work together to promote wide adherence to the Rome Statute. The goal must be a universally accepted International Criminal Court, so that no perpetrator of mass killings or other crimes against humanity and can feel safe. Our resolve to promote social development, economic growth, democracy and human rights is the strongest means we have at our disposal in the fight against poverty and injustice, as well as in the long- term struggle to eradicate terrorism. We must use the full spectrum of means and measures to secure democracy and opportunity for every person on this planet. Only then can we hope to create a world in which there will be no more horrendous acts of violence, extreme aggression and terrorism. The multilateral system of cooperation can only be as strong and assertive as Governments want it to be. We have a common responsibility to make it strong. We cannot think collectively and then act alone. Nor can we think in isolation and expect to act effectively together. That is why we need a strong United Nations. ﻿On behalf of the European Union, I am honoured to address the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. A year ago today, the world woke up to a terrible new reality; but it was also a wake-up call for us to join forces and present a solid front against the perpetrators of terror, the enemies of freedom. Not so far from here, at the heart of New York's pulsating business community, the twin towers used to stand, representing the pride of all New Yorkers in their city. But now, they have been replaced by a gaping hole, a memento of that fateful September day when terror reared its ugly head and, for a while, the very pulse of this city seemed to stop. For on that day, terror came to America, leaving in its wake death and destruction and thousands upon thousands of sorrowing mourners. It was the moment which marked the division of our world into civilized nations and those that use terror as their weapon; but it was also the day which saw us take a stand against evil. It was the day when we decided to stand shoulder to shoulder in a worldwide coalition against these men of terror and their cowardly acts. And, when the call for action came, it was here, within these walls at the United Nations, that we met to give each other renewed hope and confidence. It was as natural as it was necessary, because the attack was directed against the very foundation of this Organization, planned by cowards in their lairs conspiring against world peace and security, launched by fanatics violating every basic law of humanity, and supported by tyranny oppressing liberty and equality. For make no mistake, these acts of terrorism have not weakened us; they have only served to strengthen our resolve to actively seek security and prosperity for all consistent with the United Nations Charter and international law. And, from the outset, the United Nations has played a crucial role in the fight against terrorism. On our part in the European Union, there could be no hesitation. Our way was and is clear. We fully support the initiatives of the United Nations Counter- Terrorism Committee because we will never allow 28 terror and fear to obscure freedom and democracy. The European Union therefore intends actively to assist other nations in implementing Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). The European Union remains committed to finalizing and adopting the comprehensive convention against terrorism and we therefore strongly urge all Member States to join and implement the 12 United Nations conventions on terrorism. The key role played by the United Nations in the fight against terrorism is a reminder of the fact that the United Nations itself was born out of hope founded on the ashes of the Second World War — a war which defeated tyranny and terror. With the adoption of the Millennium Declaration, the United Nations has been given renewed impetus to deal globally with conflict prevention, crisis management, humanitarian assistance, post-conflict rehabilitation and development, and disarmament and arms control. In the complicated area of peacemaking, the United Nations and the European Union work tirelessly to find solutions in the Middle East through the efforts of the Quartet and in finding a permanent settlement on Cyprus consistent with the relevant Security Council resolutions. The European Union is a major partner in the rebuilding of a new Afghanistan freed from terror. In the Middle East, Iraq remains a major source of concern with regard to weapons of mass destruction, as President Bush emphasised in his important statement this morning. Iraq must grant unconditional and unimpeded access for the weapons inspectors to Iraq and the required cooperation from its authorities to the inspectors. Iraq is in breach of several resolutions of the Security Council on its disarmament obligations. These obligations must be complied with immediately. The European Union is determined to support further efforts of the United Nations to that end. We agree with the United States that this matter should urgently be dealt with by the Security Council and we agree with the Secretary-General that, if Iraq's defiance continues, the Security Council must face up to its responsibilities. The European Union, conscious of its obligations, remains strongly engaged in United Nations-mandated operations throughout the world, from holding in check the civil war in Sierra Leone to building a secure, prosperous and democratic Kosovo. We also strongly support the initiatives to strengthen the United Nations future peacekeeping capacity. We owe it to our armed forces to ensure an efficient and robust framework for future operations. But we must not forget that at the heart of all these conflicts are human beings, who are sometimes struggling to achieve what we take for granted. For human rights are fundamental to the lives and dignity of all human beings. The primary, fundamental and essential accomplishment of the United Nations will one day be the full enjoyment of all human rights by everyone everywhere: the right of each individual to feel that life, body and property are hers or his alone and to feel safe and secure; the right of each individual to face authorities without fear of injustice or harassment; and the right of each individual to learn that people can speak up for themselves with confidence and without having to fear the consequences. Human rights are also fundamental to human prosperity and development. The European Union therefore strongly supports the efforts of the Secretary- General to integrate human rights into all United Nations activities. Sadly, cruelty toward the defenceless, violence, maltreatment and torture remain widespread. The European Union strongly supports the adoption of the draft optional protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The European Union also advocates universal abolition of the death penalty. No State should grant itself the right to take life. Where the death penalty still exists, we call for its use to be progressively restricted. We would like to see all nations introduce a moratorium on this form of punishment and, eventually, to end it altogether, so that it will become a thing of the past. Until women are in possession of all human rights and are able to take charge of their lives and to achieve their full potential, sustainable development will remain but a dream. The European Union remains committed to fighting all forms of discrimination and violence against women, including murder and mutilation through a misguided sense of honour. By the same token, we vigorously pursue the global fight against racism, discrimination and intolerance. These deplorable attitudes and actions are regrettably still part of everyday life throughout the world. They do not belong here at the doorstep of the new millennium. 29 People do not need revenge; they want justice. They do not wish for impunity; they want accountability. That is what the International Criminal Court (ICC) is about. We now have a permanent international court that can bring those accused of war crimes and other perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international concern to trial. The European Union supports the ICC as an important historic milestone. It reflects a new level of international cooperation. We are confident that the ICC will contribute to strengthening respect for international humanitarian law and human rights. The European Union expresses its strong hope that countries that at present have reservations about the Statute will join as soon as possible. We believe that the Court will prove to be an effective, competent and fair legal instrument. Ridding the world of persistent poverty remains the greatest global challenge of all. We have achieved significant results in the fight against poverty and misery, but the world community still has far to go if we are to meet the goals of the Millennium Declaration. For many countries, the United Nations is first and foremost about combating poverty. How can we assure everyone access to the essentials of life? The next meal, medicine and health care to survive and access to basic education: these are the promises contained in the Millennium Declaration, and we must not let the world down. Aid alone will not eliminate poverty. We know that. Developing countries can take their cue from African leaders, who have taken an impressive lead with the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). This year has seen many decisive steps taken within the fields of trade and development, finance and sustainable development. At Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg, we reached consensus on what needs to be done. But knowing what has to be done is not enough. As world leaders, we must see that it is done. The European Union played a key role in reaching this consensus and is therefore committed to this new agenda. We have decided to further open our markets to exports from the least developed countries. We hope that others will follow the same path. Translating policies on poverty eradication into sustainable development requires strong political will and true partnership in development. A major challenge now will be to turn the Monterrey Consensus and the outcome of Johannesburg into reality. The European Union proposes that the United Nations system monitor implementation of the Johannesburg targets and agenda. These and other important United Nations policy issues are spelled out in the European Union position paper. On behalf of the European Union, I am happy to welcome the decisions of Switzerland and East Timor to join the United Nations. Two nations — one old and one new, one in the North and one in the South: they reflect the multitude and the diversity of the United Nations. At the special session of the General Assembly on children, young people from all over the world illustrated their dream of a world of peace and unity using all the colours of the flags of the Members of the United Nations. But we should not content ourselves with a dream. From the war against international terrorism, through the quest for justice, to the relentless fight against poverty, we need a strong and efficient United Nations. The Declaration on the Rights of the Child says that “mankind owes to the child the best it has to give” (resolution 1386 (XIV), preamble). What better gift can we give children than unity among our nations? Let us seize the moment and take another step towards a true United Nations, united in word and in deed.﻿I should like at the outset to express to you, Sir, on behalf of the Kingdom of Morocco, our sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session and to assure you of my delegation's full cooperation with a view to achieving a fruitful outcome to the session. I should also like to take this opportunity to extend greetings to the Swiss Confederation and congratulations on its membership of the Organization. Given the cultural, humanitarian and intellectual heritage of that friendly country, its contribution will enrich the work of the Organization. We also wish to congratulate Timor-Leste on its forthcoming accession to the Organization, and to wish that country every success. Just three days have elapsed since the first anniversary of the tragic events of 11 September 2001. Those events deeply wounded the people of the United States and shook the entire world with horror. International relations have since entered a new phase whose dimensions and repercussions we are still assessing. Those events brought into focus the cohesion and solidarity of all segments of the American people in the face of such tragedy. They also brought to the fore the effectiveness and usefulness of solidarity and cooperation among States in combating terrorism. Indeed, as His Majesty King Mohammed VI has stated, terrorism has no religion or homeland. Everyone is aware of the Kingdom of Morocco's firm 10 stance and its renunciation of terrorism in all its forms, as well as its vigorous and concrete commitment to combating this scourge. The gradual disappearance of economic borders and barriers to trade, the continued interdependence of markets and societies, the rapid development of information and communication technologies and the relegation of certain peoples to the sidelines of the world community have all added new challenges to the burdens already carried by numerous countries, in particular those in Africa, which have made great sacrifices in order to be integrated into the world trade system. The African continent, unfortunately, is still a stage of tragic, complicated and generally fabricated conflicts. While Africa teems with huge natural and human resources, those very resources paradoxically become the cause and the fuel of many conflicts. Yet the international community remains hesitant to take decisive and necessary measures likely to create a climate propitious for peace and stability in our continent. Seldom are the underlying reasons for conflict and instability in Africa taken into account. Of special importance in that regard are poverty, famine, the oppression of minorities, intolerance, control of natural resources, increased flows of refugees and displaced persons and health problems including endemic diseases, in particular HIV/AIDS. But now, to face up to all these challenges, our continent has established an integrated framework: the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). It will certainly give new impetus to the economic and social development of the continent. Morocco, expresses its hope that the international community will mobilize all its efforts within the framework of this energetic programme in order to reach effective and concrete solutions for solving the problems of our continent. My country is firmly intent on making an effective contribution to this endeavour. The Kingdom of Morocco, convinced of the organic link between economic growth and the maintenance of stability and security, has spared no effort to help in settling African conflicts. In this vein, Morocco, on the initiative of His Majesty King Mohammed VI, convened a summit of heads of State of the Mano River Union, which was held at Rabat on 27 February 2002. At the summit, the Presidents of the sister countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone achieved practical results on consolidating regional peace, particularly with regard to laying down criteria for confidence-building, border security and revitalizing the work of the general secretariat of the Mano River Union. Morocco will pursue the necessary efforts to restore peace and stability in that region. In the same vein, the Kingdom of Morocco continues its support for and contribution to the work of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), with a view to putting an end to conflict in that sisterly country, conflict which threatens stability in the whole region. In that context, my country, the Kingdom of Morocco, welcomed the agreement concluded on 30 July 2002 between the Governments of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda. The Kingdom of Morocco expresses also its profound satisfaction at the restoration of peace and stability in the sister country of Angola, which will enable that country to rebuild its economy and to fully play its role at the regional, continental and international levels. Concerning the issue of the Moroccan Sahara, the Kingdom of Morocco would like to recall its constant good will, and its sincere and genuine determination to reach a final political solution to this fabricated issue. Morocco has always cooperated with the United Nations in this regard, thus bearing testimony to its full understanding of and sense of responsibility towards the Organization. Morocco would like also to emphasize its readiness to continue its cooperation with the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy, Mr. James Baker, with the Security Council, in order to achieve a lasting political solution to the issue of the Sahara, in accordance with Security Council resolution 1429 (2002). Such an approach will pave the way for the creation of propitious conditions for a new dynamic in the region of the Arab Maghreb, which will enable it to become a stable economic partner that enjoys the trust of other regional groupings. In this context, Morocco has supported the option of the framework agreement proposed by Mr. Baker to the Security Council as a basis for a negotiated political solution for this long-standing conflict. That option would preserve the territorial integrity of the Kingdom of Morocco and its historical sovereignty over its land, and would ensure for the population of the Sahara provinces the exercise of expanded competencies in the management of their affairs within the framework of regional democratic institutions. Morocco accepted this option as a basis for negotiation in order to reach a final and lasting political solution to this regional conflict. In the same context, Morocco insists on the enforcement of the provisions of Security Council resolution 1429 (2002), calling for the immediate release, without restriction or condition, of all the 1,260 Moroccans detained in Algeria. Their release has been demanded unanimously by the international community and humanitarian organizations, in the forefront of which is the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). Morocco categorically rejects any political exploitation of humanitarian issues related to the Sahara problem, especially since this concerns the fate of the longest-held detainees in the world. The Kingdom of Morocco is linked to Europe by strong and diverse historic bonds. The strengthening of these bonds with all European countries constitutes a central tenet of our foreign policy. The Association Agreement which has been concluded with the European Union, and the other initiatives to strengthen Moroccan-European relations at the political, economic, cultural and social levels, reflect Morocco's determination to enhance this relationship, particularly at a time when the European Union is in the process of expanding its membership, something that would open new opportunities and horizons for Moroccan- European partnership. This approach not only seeks to achieve a bilateral strategic objective between Morocco and Europe, but it is also a valuable contribution to nurturing relations in the Euro-Mediterranean region, whose security and stability have become paramount for the world. Morocco, by virtue of its Mediterranean identity, plays a positive role in the strategic, economic and cultural formation of a Euro-Mediterranean space, as witnessed by its active participation in the Barcelona process and in the Agadir initiative announced by His Majesty King Mohammed VI for building a free-trade area among Arab Mediterranean countries. In that spirit of open-mindedness, responsibility and confidence in the future, Morocco aspires to develop its relations with our neighbouring country, Spain, with a view to building the Euro-Mediterranean region and moving forward. Unfortunately, however, recent months have been marked by events that are inconsistent with the maintenance of security and stability in the region and that are unlikely to serve the interests of the two countries and their peoples. Morocco has spared no efforts in avoiding any move likely to affect adversely the steady growth of its relations with Spain, hopes that the upcoming Moroccan-Spanish talks, which will take place in Madrid this month, will tackle all issues and conflicts between the two countries, within the framework of responsible, calm and constructive dialogue. The completion of Moroccan territorial integrity is an absolute priority for His Majesty King Mohammed VI and for the entire Moroccan people. Therefore, Morocco considers the status of the occupied cities of Sebta and Melilia and of the neighbouring islands to be an anachronistic instance of colonialism that has no place at the beginning of the twenty-first century. Morocco has never ceased, neither at the bilateral level nor in international forums, to officially demand the recovery of these parts of its national territory that are occupied by Spain. In so doing, it has always expressed its readiness to engage in dialogue in order to arrive at a solution that would guarantee Morocco's sovereign rights and secure the interests of the Spanish community in the areas. We fervently hope that the two neighbouring kingdoms, Morocco and Spain, which are bound by ties of neighbourliness, common history and future, will build strong, stable and neutral relations to meet the aspirations of both peoples. As they build with mutual respect, confidence and common strategic interests, these relations will take into account the need for preserving stability and peace in our region, particularly at this specific juncture when the international community is confronting formidable security challenges. In spite of continued appeals made by the international community to bring about peace in the Middle East, the Palestinian people still suffer on a daily basis from the mad violence inflicted on them by the Israeli occupation forces and practices that flout the most elementary principles of international humanitarian law. Notwithstanding successive Security Council resolutions, Israel still persists in its repressive policy, paying no heed to any international covenant 12 and denying the very agreements into which it has entered. In contrast, leaders of the Arab States have demonstrated a keen sense of responsibility and a continued pledge to embrace peace, culminating at the Arab summit in Beirut in March 2002 with the adoption of the Arab peace initiative presented by His Royal Highness Crown Prince Abdullah ibn Abdul- Aziz of the sister Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. On the other hand, Morocco welcomes the vision advocated by United States President George W. Bush, in which he called for the establishment of a Palestinian State to coexist side by side with Israel, as a lasting and viable solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, one likely to achieve peace and security for all peoples of the region and to put a definite end to violence and instability. However, recent events and developments in the region do not, unfortunately, give substance to this vision. The spiral of violence has instead witnessed an unprecedented escalation. For decades, the Kingdom of Morocco has been endeavouring to act as a bridge between the peoples of the region, with a view to achieving a climate of peace and security and contributing to the revitalization of the peace process, the creation of an independent Palestinian State with Al-Quds al-Sharif as its capital and the recovery by Syria and Lebanon of their territories occupied since 1967. In view of the importance of Al-Quds al-Sharif as a key point in the peace process, and seeking to preserve the national and religious identity of this Holy City in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions, His Majesty King Mohammed VI, Chairman of the Al-Quds Committee, is continuing his efforts, along with brother Kings, Emirs and Presidents of the Muslim member States of the Committee, with the United States of America and the Russian Federation in their capacity as peace patrons, and with the presidency of the European Union, with His Holiness the Pope and with the United Nations Secretary-General, in order to safeguard the Islamic Arab character of Al-Quds al-Sharif and to preserve it as a place of coexistence and tolerance among the three revealed religions. The Iraqi issue has become a major preoccupation for the entire world, owing to the suffering of the Iraqi people. For this reason, while we demand that Iraq implement the relevant United Nations resolutions, we also call for deep reflection and patience in dealing with the Iraqi question, hoping that the Iraqi Government will respond to the international community's request. The aim would be to avoid the infliction of further suffering, distress and misery on the Iraqi people. At any rate, the United Nations is required to act within the framework of its Charter's principles and purposes in order to preserve the stability and security of all countries in the region. In this context, Morocco expresses its concern with regard to the Kuwaiti prisoners of war and missing persons, and the need to preserve the unity and independence of the State of Kuwait. Morocco also emphasizes the need to preserve Iraq's unity and sovereignty over all its territory. The same region is witnessing another conflict involving two sister States that have strong bonds of friendship and cooperation with Morocco — that is, the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran. My country is hopeful that our brothers in Iran will become convinced of the need to settle the conflict over the islands of Abu Musa, the Greater Tunb and the Lesser Tunb, by peaceful means, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter and the rules of international law. This will affect positively their bilateral relations, as well as the stability and cooperation in the region. In conclusion, under the leadership of His Majesty King Mohammed VI, the Kingdom of Morocco, as a member of the African, Arab, and Muslim family and given its position in the Euro- Mediterranean region, has always held dear the basic values of tolerance, moderation, open-mindedness and dialogue in dealing with the international community. Morocco will always honour its obligations towards the international community to strengthen the foundations of security and stability and to give impetus to the new visions charted for the world of the twenty-first century. We will always remain ready to contribute within the United Nations to finding the most efficient means of improving conditions in the world.  ﻿I should like to add the voice of my delegation to the voices of those who have already congratulated Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency and those who have thanked the outgoing President for his contribution to the work of the Assembly. Saint Lucia pledges its full cooperation to Mr. Kavan as he assumes the presidential mantle. We are pleased that, at the commencement of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, we are welcoming Switzerland and East Timor to our Organization. We have no doubt that they will both enrich the deliberations of our organization as we seek to advance its cause. Saint Lucia, as a member of the Special Committee on decolonization, is particularly pleased that East Timor will at last able be to enter these hallowed halls as an independent State in its own right. In this age of cutting-edge technology, scientific miracles and the conquest of space, it is barely conceivable that human misery and suffering are still not decreasing. From Africa to Asia and from Asia to the Caribbean, the HIV/AIDS pandemic is accelerating and spreading, while known killers such as tuberculosis and malaria continue to stalk human existence. We watch as large parts of humanity fall, often seeming to lack the impetus needed to have a substantial impact on such scourges. A large percentage of the population of the developing world lives in degrading poverty, and many are on the brink of starvation and famine. Some 24,000 persons, most of them from the developing world, die each day of hunger. Approximately 12 million people 7 in Southern Africa now face starvation. Yet there is a worldwide glut in agricultural production. In some places there is too much; in others there is too little. The crisis of the development agenda is reflective of the crisis of legitimacy that is being experienced by the global economic governance structure. Saint Lucia again calls for the reformation of the global economic governance system to ensure that the planet's resources constitute the common heritage of all mankind. A corollary to global economic reformation is the equitable sharing of resources to ensure a decent quality of life for all and the redistribution of wealth and power at the systemic level to redress existing injustices so that we no longer have a world with too much in one place and too little in another. A major impediment to development is the lack of transparency, accountability and democratic norms within the operations of the global governance network. Saint Lucia has always upheld the democratic imperative within the domestic realm as the flagship for the advancement of social progress and development. Saint Lucia reiterates that it is only through democratic participation and the belief that all people are created equal and deserve equal rights and opportunities that the right of the peoples of the developing world to true self-determination and development can be realized. It is only by upholding the principles of transparency, accountability and democracy that the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the World Trade Organization and our own United Nations system can become relevant to the task of solving the problem of global poverty. The Doha declaration alone will not prevent the exclusion of States from economic decision-making and global governance. The non-involvement of Governments in the development process runs counter to the original mission of the 1992 Rio Earth Summit. Saint Lucia challenges the United Nations system to raise its universal voice, in concert with the discordant coalition, opposing any unilateral determination of the fate of the planet's natural resources and the billions of poor people depending on them for survival. Saint Lucia calls for the democratization and reform of the WTO into an organization supportive of the sustainable development of all States. This is the only way that developing countries can protect their interests within the multilateral trading system. Saint Lucia laments the fact that the developing world may have compromised its development agenda by signing the WTO agreements without the principle of special and differential treatment being an integral part of those agreements. This omission has to be corrected in the Doha round. Why is it so difficult to understand that, given the critical nexus between trade and development, developing countries cannot be subjected to the same expectations, rules and regulations that govern trade among developed countries? The ideology of a level playing field is a myth ill conceived. Equitable participation in world trade demands that special consideration and assistance be given to the developing world, particularly to vulnerable, small island States like Saint Lucia. We must resist — and I underscore the word “resist” — all attempts to make the WTO a mechanism for unleashing a silent economic war on the poor and powerless by protecting corporate interests while marginalizing Governments and people. We need a Marshall Plan to address the terror of poverty and the stark disparities between the developed and developing world in trade technology, life expectancy and illiteracy. Monterrey produced neither a global development coalition nor a binding mandate with targets and resources for implementing the United Nations millennium goals of halving poverty, effectively addressing HIV/AIDS, closing the digital divide and strengthening Governments. The message from Monterrey is that there is neither political will nor resources available for development. Of the estimated $55 billion required annually to implement the millennium goals, Monterrey pledged only $5 billion over a period of three years. Further, official development assistance to developing countries has continued to decline from the United Nations target of 0.7 per cent to 0.24 per cent. Despite the fact that debt servicing accounts for a net transfer of resources from developing to developed countries, draining a significant amount of development funds, Monterrey made no commitment to the cancellation of the crippling debt of developing countries. No attempts were made to stem the serious marginalization of small island developing States or to grant access to concessionary funding from international financial institutions for their development. Sadly, Johannesburg was more of the same. The conference was convened to strike a global deal on 8 sustainable development, but failed to initiate the people-driven process necessary to transform the global economic crisis into development for all. No mechanisms were established to insulate decisions taken from being undermined in the current global economic governance system. The failure of Johannesburg to establish an international citizen's agenda — with clear targets, resources and commitments to implement development goals – that protects the poor and the planet will reverberate throughout the developing world. The United Nations appears to have become complicit in its own demise, permitting the principles of universality and the quest for justice and equality to become obsolete. This institution was once the proud champion of the redistribution of global economic power and the establishment of a new international economic order. Today, however, in the major United Nations institutions, such as the Economic and Social Council, the United Nations Development Programme and the General Assembly, there is a deafening silence. Further, the gains made by the developing world within the United Nations are quickly being eroded. The post of Director-General for International Economic Cooperation and Development has been abolished. This was one of the few concrete outcomes of the developing world's thrust to secure a stronger presence in support of international economic cooperation. And the United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations, which effectively tracked the activities of transnational corporations in the South and their contribution to sustainable development, has been dismantled. Today, the market is left to determine everything, with corporate rule of the global economy resulting in untold havoc to the environment and the poor. No mechanism is in place to ensure corporate responsibility and accountability. Saint Lucia urges the United Nations to reinstitute the United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations. Further, Saint Lucia calls on the United Nations to resist any attempt to weaken and marginalize the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. While development within the United Nations system is being undermined through the cutting and freezing of the United Nations regular and core budget, there have been substantial increases in the peacekeeping budget. Military spending — particularly that of developed countries — keeps escalating, and the United Nations Development Programme and the Bretton Woods institutions are being reoriented away from development. Development is in need of a global coalition, without which we will pursue wars against terrorism in vain. Saint Lucia condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. For small island developing States, however, security against terrorism and other threats is not merely a matter of military spending, but is rather a multidimensional concern encompassing matters such as drug trafficking and small arms, transnational crime, unemployment, poverty and underdevelopment. Therefore, whilst maintaining its peacekeeping mandate, the United Nations should not abandon the other mandates of its Charter — the economic and social development of all peoples — if it intends to remain relevant and credible. This institution needs to regain its balance and to listen to the fainting voice of humanity in a universal chorus proclaiming global peace, justice, prosperity and equality for all. It would be remiss of me if I did not at this point reiterate Saint Lucia's call for an end to the economic embargo on Cuba and for that country to be allowed to pursue its right to the development of its people and to assume its rightful role within our hemisphere. In closing, let me state quite categorically that, as a vulnerable small island developing State, Saint Lucia is among those countries which require the support and protection of the United Nations system and the safety of a strong, democratic and fair multilateral system most of all. We appreciate the support received from this institution and from friendly countries as we seek to advance our country's development. We also reaffirm our commitment to working with all Member States to ensure peace, security and development for all peoples. ﻿On behalf of the Government of the Republic of San Marino, I wish first to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I am convinced that his experience, professional skills and dynamism will contribute to the success of our work. I also wish to thank Dr. Han Seung-soo for having presided over the General Assembly in one of the most difficult and delicate moments of our recent history. Inevitably, this session of the General Assembly is still suffering the consequences of a deep, indelible wound that, a little more than a year ago, was inflicted on the whole of humanity, on the people who contributed to creating this civilization and, in particular, on a great and friendly nation, whose role has always been crucial to the future of our planet. Feelings of pain and fright, but also rebellion, are still vivid in the minds of each and every one of us. The firm and absolute condemnation of what happened last year in September remains unchanged and has been further strengthened by the determination to spare no effort in combating and if possible defeating the dreadful threat of terrorism, which is still present. However, San Marino is convinced that fighting terrorism exclusively through military, political and economic actions is not enough. We must ask ourselves why terrorism comes about and develops, why fundamentalism and fanaticism exist, why some individuals who proclaim to fight for the liberation of the oppressed become instruments of death. We may have found an answer, and that is why we keep on repeating in all forums, that as long as the world is stricken by hunger, poverty, underdevelopment, inequality, oppression, ignorance and violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, there will be no solution to all the political, economic and social situations that are inexorably degenerating, which we continue to witness with a growing feeling of anguish, uncertainty and instability for a whole generation, for the whole of mankind. With that in mind, San Marino has fully supported the initiatives and the procedures established by the Security Council to stem the expansion of terrorism. The Republic I represent has met in a timely manner the requirements set forth by the Counter- Terrorism Committee established by the Security Council itself. In the same way, a number of legislative and financial measures on anti-terrorism adopted by San Marino Parliament and Government are evidence of our will to proceed with the ratification of the relevant international Conventions and of the intention to pass a special law to counter terrorism and its financing. We also believe that dialogue and tolerance among all peoples of the world are further instruments to combat terrorism and fundamentalism. That calls not only for effective political action, but also for a new culture to develop within peoples, where diversity becomes a universal heritage, and leads to unity rather than division, helps eliminate, rather than worsen, disparities, brings different cultures, religions and traditions closer together, rather than turning them into instruments of incomprehension and confrontation. It is a disgrace that a solution to the ongoing conflict and violence in the Middle East seems out of reach. Terrorist attacks and military reprisals further exacerbate hatred and revenge, undermining any possibility of promoting negotiations and dialogue on the basis of mutual respect and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. San Marino is deeply concerned about the worsening situation in this area and strongly condemns the spiral of violence plaguing that region and indiscriminately causing victims every day, mainly among civilians, especially women and children. Israel has the legitimate right to exist within its own borders and to defend and protect its own population. Palestinians have the same legitimate right, to live on their own land and the right to self- determination within their own State. Therefore, we deem it imperative that both parties respect the rules of international law and fully comply with all United Nations resolutions. Most recently, tensions have escalated further because of the possibility of a war against Iraq in order to remove its President, Saddam Hussein. The Republic of San Marino can certainly neither tolerate nor accept that the world be held hostage by 15 unscrupulous dictators who are absolutely unreliable and who are probably willing and able to jeopardize international security. Yet, any action, including military intervention as a last resort, would in any case require the consensus and authorization of the United Nations. The international scene is marked on many fronts by dread and insecurity. Nonetheless, San Marino follows with interest and supports the intensive activity that the United Nations is conducting to tackle a number of issues with the ultimate goal of attaining a more civilized, equitable, humane society fit for humankind. We followed with great attention the major conferences that the United Nations promoted and organized in 2002, especially those on children, the ageing and sustainable development. The twenty-seventh special session of the General Assembly on Children agreed that in order to implement the principles enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is imperative to attain three major objectives: to guarantee children a decent standard of living in a safe environment in which they can grow up and develop physically, mentally and emotionally in a healthy manner; to ensure that they can complete at least primary school; and to provide adolescents with the opportunity to strengthen their individual capacities in a safe environment, so that they will be able to fully participate in and contribute to the society in which they live. San Marino shares those priorities and has adopted a number of legislative, social and cultural initiatives to implement those fundamental principles. My country also welcomes the activities carried out by the international community which, on the occasion of the Second World Assembly on Ageing held last April in Madrid, adopted a political declaration and a new plan of action to safeguard the interests and needs of the elderly, a population group which has so far probably been neglected although it will considerably increase in number over the next few years. San Marino attaches great importance to the significant changes brought about by the Assembly in the methods used to face and solve the problems of the ageing population, while seeking to eradicate stereotypes and prejudices. We have a feeling that in so doing, the international community has laid down the foundations for a future plan of action that will ensure for all human beings wellness, health and security in the last years of their lives. Also within the framework of the United Nations, although it had different objectives, the recent World Summit on Sustainable Development held in Johannesburg, South Africa was also of great importance. San Marino is aware that the economic growth of the most developed nations must go hand in hand with economic growth at the global level. Globalization, however, cannot be imposed. On the contrary, it must be conceived as an opportunity for all States and populations. It must facilitate access to markets for developing countries and promote targeted investments that take social and environmental considerations into account. At the same time, we have to build confidence and foster economic well-being to achieve the integration which we all deem to be essential. Such integration is also a precondition for the protection of both the environment and cultural diversity. I would like to recall that the Statute of the International Criminal Court entered into force on 1 July, 2002. With that formal achievement, the community of States made a great leap forward in the progress of international law, the Court being not only a judicial institution created to prosecute genocide and crimes against humanity, but also clear evidence of the will existing at an international level to avoid granting impunity — as is too often the case — to perpetrators of atrocious and intolerable crimes against peoples or individuals. As well, because of the role of guarantor assigned to that institution, the Republic of San Marino participated in the celebration of the fourth anniversary of the Court on 17 July, 2002 and was the first State in Europe to ratify its Statute. Furthermore, my Government believes that the International Criminal Court does not in any way endanger the international peacekeeping forces. On the contrary, the Court further guarantees their protection through the articles of its Statute. For that reason, my country hopes that the International Criminal Court will be joined and supported by as many countries as possible, and that practical solutions will be found that do not alter the Statute of Rome but that guarantee the continuity of peace operations. 16 On this occasion, on behalf of the Government of San Marino I feel it is my duty to reaffirm the importance and the key role played by the General Assembly as the main decision-making and representative body. Unquestionably, the functions of the General Assembly and the effectiveness of its decisions need strengthening. Moreover, the General Assembly should intensify its co-operation with the other United Nations bodies, primarily with the Security Council. A working group to which San Marino has also contributed ideas and proposals has been studying Security Council reform for eight years. All Members probably know that San Marino has long taken a stance in favour of an increase in the number of non-permanent members on the Security Council, while it agrees neither with an increase in permanent seats nor with the extension of the right of veto. We consider that this would have a positive effect on many activities of the United Nations and therefore that it would be beneficial to relations among and between States; it is something which is now sorely needed. I wish to conclude by reasserting that the only way to overcome the consequences of the painful events that we have recently experienced is to pool our efforts and to work together, honestly and actively, in order to start a virtuous cycle in which the objectives of civil and tolerant coexistence among peoples and nations are universally shared, supported and pursued; in which the values of solidarity, respect for human life and dignity dismantle the barriers of selfishness and oppression; and in which democracy and freedom from all constraints and needs become effective. These are the same objectives that a small State called the Republic of San Marino, which I have the honour to represent here today in the most authoritative and prestigious international Organization, has sought to achieve over 17 centuries of history in a consistent, persistent but also humble manner. ﻿As is the case every year, Burkina Faso is very pleased to take part in the regular session of the General Assembly, this great meeting of peoples united by the same destiny and motivated by the same ideal: to build a world of justice, love and peace. I am convinced, Mr. President, that the choice of a person of your great ability to preside over this fifty-seventh session will help us greatly. As we congratulate you and the members of the Bureau on that special honour, my delegation and I want to assure you of our full availability and cooperation for the success of your mission. We also want to express again our profound recognition of your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the competence with which he presided over the fifty-sixth session. The quest for peace and security and the promotion of cooperation and development are the essential values that presided over the creation of the United Nations. Today, more than ever before, with the tragic events of 11 September 2001 — whose first anniversary we have just commemorated — those objectives have assumed a more immediate and urgent character, because world peace finds itself seriously threatened, in particular by international terrorism. We must all convince ourselves that the best response to international terrorism must proceed from collective action — in other words, from action by the entire international community. As a member of that community, Burkina Faso — which has made the quest for peace a creed — reaffirms most solemnly, vigorously and unambiguously its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms, whatever the motivations. Our determination to fight alongside the United Nations against that danger is unwavering, and our implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) was the subject of a report submitted to the Committee established pursuant to that resolution. If the fight against terrorism henceforth occupies the spotlight, that must not obscure the imperative necessity of finding just and lasting solutions to international crises, particularly regional conflicts that so often feed and maintain that scourge. In this 15 connection, Burkina Faso welcomes the laudable initiatives of the United Nations to restore peace to many regions of the world, particularly Africa, where United Nations interventions — coupled with the initiatives of the Organization of African Unity, which has become the African Union, and those of the African subregional organizations — have made it possible to pacify many areas of tension and conflict that were ravaging parts of our continent. We also welcome the gradual return to peace in Sierra Leone, in Angola, in the Great Lakes region, between Ethiopia and Eritrea and in Sudan, even if in the latter case we must regret the suspension of the agreement between the Government of that country and the armed rebellion. In Western Africa, the hopes that arose at the end of the war in Sierra Leone unfortunately seem unfulfilled with the resumption of combat in neighbouring Liberia. We cannot remain passive in the face of civil war in that sister country. Supported by others of goodwill and working within the framework of the process of the Economic Community of West African States, Burkina Faso convened a meeting in Ouagadougou from 8 to 11 July between a number of Liberian political parties, civil society organizations, associations and movements with a view to renewing the inter-Liberian dialogue. By agreeing to host that important meeting, my country, Burkina Faso, hoped to provide a further chance for dialogue, which the Liberians themselves desired. The initiative was supportive of efforts that had already been agreed upon in the context of the Rabat process and the Mano River Union. This year has been particularly bloody in the Middle East. We cannot forget the excesses committed in Jenin and the harassment of President Arafat at Ramallah. The atrocities perpetrated every day against the unarmed Palestinian civilian population are a great cause for concern. Dialogue and negotiation must prevail over confrontation and violence. Burkina Faso reaffirms its support for the creation of an independent Palestinian State, existing side by side with Israel, and we strongly urge the Security Council to ensure that its relevant resolutions are implemented. With regard to Iraq, Burkina Faso welcomes the fact that reason has prevailed. We remain convinced that unilateral preventive action that is not authorized by the Security Council would have dire consequences for world peace. In that connection, we would like to pay tribute to the courageous decision of the Iraqi Government, which has just agreed to the return to Baghdad of United Nations weapons inspectors. We earnestly hope that that approach will ultimately lead to a definitive resolution of the crisis, especially since the sanctions imposed on that country are unjust and have made martyrs of the Iraqi people. Burkina Faso has always made it clear that, apart from their unjust character, sanctions cannot properly resolve substantive problems but are counterproductive. We therefore request the lifting of all sanctions against Iraq, Cuba and Iran, as well as those imposed on Libya in connection with the Lockerbie question. With regard to that latter question, Burkina Faso believes that the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has fully discharged its obligations to the Security Council and that the sanctions imposed on it should now be lifted. As a result of the demands of globalization, protecting the right to development has become the most important obligation for our countries. We therefore place great hope in the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), to which the Assembly has just devoted a special debate. We should recall that that new initiative shows how determined African leaders are to work tirelessly to rid the continent of poverty and marginalization. During a recent forum that took place in Ouagadougou on the role of the private sector in the implementation of NEPAD, President Blaise Compaore stressed two major responsibilities that are incumbent upon the international community. The first relates to the enhancement and structural reform of official development assistance so as to adapt it to the needs of its beneficiaries and to improve its effect on their standard of living. The second relates to the problem of the access of African goods to the markets of the industrialized countries and the need to put an end to anti-competitive subsidies that run counter to the rules of the World Trade Organization. More generally, the various meetings on development that have taken place this year, in particular the International Conference on Financing for Development, held at Monterrey, and the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg, as well as the commitments set out in 16 the Millennium Declaration, open up new and encouraging prospects for developing countries. It remains true, however, that the best form of development is that which takes into account the requirements of democracy and human rights. In this connection, I would like to assure the Assembly that my country will be resolute in ensuring that democracy becomes rooted in our political and institutional life, and we are taking significant and concrete actions to that end. The people of Burkina Faso have thus just renewed, for a third consecutive time and for a further five years, the mandate of the National Assembly. That election, in which all the political parties took part, took place in a calm, transparent and fair manner and has seated members of 13 political parties to legislate on questions of interest to the people of Burkina Faso. The Government has also created a Ministry for the Promotion of Human Rights to ensure respect for and the implementation of human rights in all their aspects. That is why my Government welcomes the election of Burkina Faso to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, which will enable us to make a positive and active contribution to the work and the deliberations of that international body, which monitors the implementation of human rights throughout the world. Furthermore, our Government is determined to greatly enhance the status of women and children in line with the recommendations of the special session of the General Assembly on children. It is thus clear that the credibility and effectiveness of the United Nations is increasing on a daily basis, whether with regard to the promotion of peace and security, to economic cooperation or to activities in the social and humanitarian sphere. The recent admission of Switzerland to the United Nations and the forthcoming admission of Timor-Leste further confirm the irreplaceable role of the United Nations as an means of ensuring international stability. It is precisely because of that universality that Burkina Faso is able to call upon the international community to consider the return of the Republic of China to this world Organization. Taiwan has clearly shown that it is a free, independent, democratic nation that enjoys all the attributes of a State under international law and that would thus be able to make a truly useful contribution to the building of a better future for humankind. The credibility of the United Nations is at stake in this respect. In conclusion, I should like, on behalf of my country, to pay tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan for his assured leadership of this Organization, as well as to the staff of the United Nations for their tireless contribution to the quest for peace.  ﻿I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. I believe your extensive diplomatic experience will continue the successful and useful work done by your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo. Belarus welcomes the further expansion of the community of nations. We welcome the Swiss Confederation to the United Nations membership. We believe that the new Member State and the United Nations will be good partners and will contribute to peace and progress in the world. The last session of the General Assembly was a landmark for all of us. Last year the world changed dramatically. The challenges of globalization have turned out to be more serious than they seemed to all of us when leaders of the Member States adopted the Millennium Declaration. The tragic events of 11 September 2001 were a serious test of the stability of the United Nations and our commitment to the principles and objectives of the Charter. We bow our heads in memory of the victims of the terrorist attacks. The American tragedy must never be allowed to be repeated anywhere in the world. The President of the Republic of Belarus, Alyaksandr Lukashenka, wrote in a letter dated 11 September 2002, to President George Bush of the United States: Today we still bear in our hearts the memory of the innocent people who perished in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania on that dreadful morning of 11 September 2001 ... Early in the twenty-first century the world perceived the grave reality of new challenges and threats. We also came to understand that the evil of international terrorism can be eradicated only through joint concerted efforts.' Today, we have every reason to state that the world community has managed to confront the threat of global terrorism by creating a broad international coalition. The measures taken by the United Nations in response to the unprecedented acts of international terrorism mark a new and significant direction in the Organization's activities. Belarus considers itself an integral part of the anti-terrorism coalition. We fully support the Counter- Terrorism Committee and have been actively involved with it in the context of unconditional implementation of Security Council resolutions. We also believe the Counter-Terrorism Committee provides a fruitful exchange of experience in the area of combating terrorism that involves the Member States, international organizations and regional institutions. The President, Government and Security Council of the Republic of Belarus have been focusing on ways to combat terrorism. In January 2002, we adopted a law to combat terrorism, which has entered into force. Our 22 country is a party to 9 of the 12 major multilateral international treaties on combating terrorism. We are now working on accession to the three other treaties. The outcome of the groundbreaking work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee will serve as a basis for setting up a universal model for counter-terrorism legislation and for its implementation. The Republic of Belarus will contribute to elaborating a comprehensive convention on combating international terrorism and acts of nuclear terrorism. Work on those two instruments should be the focus of the Secretary-General's attention, since international terrorism today has challenged two Powers, two permanent members of the Security Council: the United States and Russia. It has also challenged the entire international community. We have accepted that challenge; our response is clear. We, the United Nations, will eliminate terrorism. The focus of attention at the last session was people and their needs in a global world; we agree with that approach. The Millennium Declaration is our guide as we work on those issues. We considered possible options for implementing the Millennium Declaration at two recent important international forums the International Conference on Financing for Development at Monterrey and the World Summit on Sustainable Development at Johannesburg. Those two forums marked a transition between identifying common goals and actually implementing them. The main task facing this session is to draw conclusions with regard to that work and determine the specific actions to be taken in order to implement the agreements. Our delegation is ready to act together with other Member States to this end. My Government attaches paramount importance to integrating environmental and social aspects into our national strategy for sustainable development. Belarus agrees with the analysis made at the Johannesburg Summit of what has been done to achieve sustainable development over the past decade and how we can tackle global issues in the twenty-first century. Our country is entering the new millennium as an important geopolitical element in a modern Europe. We have a stable economic and social infrastructure and the highest human development index among the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States. Belarus seeks constructive interaction and mutually beneficial partnership with our neighbouring countries in the interest of building a united Europe. The prospect of sustainable development in Europe cannot be realized without a stable Belarus acting as a reliable Eurasian bridge. On that basis, our President and Government have been determining the role that Belarus will play in the implementation of the decisions of the World Summit on Sustainable Development. The conferences at Monterrey and Johannesburg showed the importance of taking into account the interests of countries with transitional economies in structuring a stable world for the twenty-first century. Over the past decade, our countries have come a long way in transitioning to the market economy and integrating fully into international trade, economic and financial systems. But the States in that group are at different stages of macroeconomic and financial stability and sustained economic growth because of the particular characteristics of their individual situations owing to internal and external factors. Therefore, it is important to continue international efforts to make market reforms irreversible in the countries with transitional economies. We must also take account of and try to mitigate the social consequences and ensure that our countries are fully integrated into the world economy. Belarus looks forward to a fruitful discussion of the draft, which we will be introducing at this session of the General Assembly. Sustainable development in Belarus relates directly to dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the largest radiation disaster of the past century. Economic damage in Belarus is estimated at $US 235 billion. We have invested $US 13 billion in restoring the social and economic sectors of that region. The health of the affected population is still a serious concern. At the same time, Chernobyl-related issues have been losing the attention of the international community, leaving Belarus to face the consequences alone. Belarus has urged a shift in focus of international Chernobyl-related cooperation away from humanitarian assistance to socio-economic rehabilitation and sustainable development in the affected regions. We welcome the active role played by the United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs, Mr. Kenzo Oshima, who personally visited the 23 affected regions earlier this year. We are grateful to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for supporting Mr. Oshima in this endeavour. We welcome the work of some members of the United Nations Inter-Agency Task Force on Chernobyl, who seek to set up an International Chernobyl Research Board to study the long-term consequences of radiation effects on human beings and the environment in Belarus. Belarus supports United Nations partnership with non-governmental organizations and the private sector. We believe this can help to mobilize additional resources for our purposes. However, voluntary initiatives should supplement intergovernmental agreements, not replace them. Peace, security and stability are prerequisites to sustainable development. But this past year has shown that international peace and security are still fragile. We witnessed a sharp escalation of confrontation in the Middle East. This region could become the centre of a dangerous collision between civilizations. The Middle East Quartet, with the participation of the United Nations, the European Union, the Russian Federation and the United States, inspires some optimism from the standpoint of the understanding reached by all participants in the peace process that two independent states Israel and Palestine have to coexist. This understanding is enshrined in legally binding documents of the United Nations. Gradually taking steps to mutual reconciliation through continuous dialogue between the parties involved will help, and the United Nations must be active here. There is no alternative to the peace process in Afghanistan. Significant financial, material and human resources have already been allocated to Afghanistan to help to create a new Afghanistan, a stable and predictable partner in modern international relations. Belarus wishes to make its contribution. Our State Aviation Committee has participated in transporting humanitarian supplies from Europe to Afghanistan. We believe the establishment of the African Union was a landmark step for Africa. This major regional association, with support from the international community, will hasten a solution to African problems, particularly ethnic and religious conflict. Belarus will help to approve projects and programmes for economic and humanitarian development in Africa through the United Nations. This year was marked by important agreements on strategic stability. Belarus welcomes the signing in Moscow of the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions between the Russian Federation and the United States. We support constructive dialogue between the nuclear States in order to create a genuinely safe multi-polar world. International efforts for the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) must continue. A new impetus must be given to the Conference on Disarmament. More work must be done on reducing conventional weapons. Belarus has contributed to setting up the new security architecture from Vancouver to Vladivostok by depositing our ratification instruments for the Open Skies Treaty in November 2001. At this session, we will be proposing a draft resolution entitled Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons'. We trust it will be unanimously supported, as it was last year in the General Assembly. Belarus believes the Security Council must play a key role in maintaining international peace and security, including the situation of Iraq. Belarus welcomes the recent decision by the Government of Iraq to allow for the immediate and unconditional return of United Nations weapons inspectors to Iraq. Any action or attempt to evade the authority of the United Nations Security Council, or any non- fulfilment by States of decisions by the Council, will undermine the legal basis of the existing system of international relations and jeopardize the basis of the international legal order. Reform of the United Nations is essential to successfully accomplish its tasks. As a founding member, Belarus has always advocated strengthening the role of the United Nations. In an era of globalization, only an institutionally strong Organization will be capable of making a genuinely effective contribution to coordinating member States' efforts to attain the noble goals enshrined in the Charter. Although there has not been much progress in the Working Group on Security Council reform and on increasing the Council's membership, Belarus welcomes the progress made in improving its working 24 methods by increasing transparency and having more open meetings and briefings. Reform of the General Assembly is also speeding up, and informal consultations should serve as a basis for effective work at this session. We have been monitoring the work of the Economic and Social Council, and we welcome internal reforms there. We support more interaction between the Economic and Social Council, the Security Council and the General Assembly. We welcome the coordinating role of the Council as set forth in the Charter and the Millennium Declaration. As we look at what we have done and what remains to be done, we inevitably reach the conclusion that there is little time for thought due to the speed at which the world is changing today; therefore, we believe that the only key to success is to purposefully move forward to solve specific tasks. Belarus will work together with other member States to that end.  ﻿I would like, through you, Sir, to congratulate Jan Kavan on his election as President of the General Assembly and to assure him of our delegation's cooperation as he undertakes his important responsibilities this year. Yesterday, people the world over paused to remember the victims of the tragic events of one year ago. I had the opportunity of attending the interfaith service yesterday, where the President of the General Assembly and the Secretary-General spoke movingly about how the commemoration of that event must reinforce this institution's vocation as the forum dedicated to world peace. Canadians entirely subscribe to the sentiments that were there expressed. The attacks of last September were a cruel and devastating blow to the United States and, indeed, to us all. I am proud to say that Canadians stood in solidarity with our closest ally at that terrible moment. When the terrorists struck that day, they were also attacking the very principles of international law, security and humanitarianism that are embodied in the United Nations Charter. We believe that our ultimate response to the challenges of 11 September is thus to rededicate ourselves to our beliefs and to the principles upon which the United Nations was founded. (spoke in French) Now, more than ever, the main challenge for each of our countries and for the United Nations is to manage our interdependence. Environmental degradation and endemic poverty, the proliferation of disease and epidemics, the increasing threat of terrorism and organized crime these are serious, complex issues that no one nation can confront alone. To succeed, our countries must work together, while also drawing on the expertise of civil society. Such interaction is a formidable challenge and one that the United Nations is best suited to meet. Recognition of our interdependence in no way threatens our respective sovereignty. In fact, it gives each of us even more tangible means to act and to succeed through the sharing of our information, resources and initiatives. The principles of multilateralism are articulated with vigour and resolve in the Millennium Declaration, which assigns a decisive role to the United Nations Charter and rightly so, for it is much more than our constitution. Indeed, it is our heart and soul. It reconciles national interests with the highest moral and ethical standards that must govern the actions of each State. For us, the Charter is the key to unlock the door to the world of peace, security and justice that we hope to build. The terrorist threat leads us to work together and, tragically, illustrates the extent of our interdependence. It demonstrates the urgency of finding solutions that are equal to the task at hand and whose effectiveness hinges on new partnerships among our countries. Our reaction to terrorism must be steadfast, to be sure, and we must make no concession to the agents of terror, but if we want our reaction to be truly effective, it must enhance both national security and respect for basic rights. In fact, democratic governance and security find their most solid foundation in societies in which rights and freedoms are respected and where, as a result, dissidence more often than not takes constructive, rather than violent forms. What is more, the fight against terrorism challenges us to find ways to open our hearts and minds to the diversity of our world, its cultures and its religions. Now more than ever, we must promote dialogue, understanding and tolerance with respect to other people. In this way, we will help to eradicate at its source much of the pain that all too often translates 26 into rising hatred, extremism and fanaticism of all sorts. Multilateralism has definitely proven its worth over the past year. For example, dozens of countries have offered their resources and experience to Afghanistan as members of the coalition against terrorism or of the Afghanistan Support Group. They have also contributed to the various United Nations programmes seeking to establish political stability and representative Government. The G8 Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, concluded at Kananaskis in June, is another concrete example of our joint commitment to battling terrorism and other threats to peace. Canada, as Chair of the G8, was a strong advocate of this major effort designed to strengthen international security and strategic stability. Canada will continue to work to make this initiative a success. At all times, Canada is ready to offer its support wherever it is needed and we encourage the international community to continue to do likewise. We also believe that the multilateral approach is useful in addressing the obvious challenges posed by sustainable development. In this regard, the consensus that emerged from the Monterrey Conference calls on all countries to work together to forge broader partnerships between developed and developing countries. In this regard, the situation in Africa cries out for action. For too long now, inaction has taken a heavy toll in terms of human suffering. However, hope is beginning to shine through. The New Partnership for Africa's Development, devised by African leaders determined to meet the challenges of self-development and endorsed at Canada's urging-during the G8 summit in Kananaskis, seeks to provide the people of Africa with conditions founded on good governance and democracy, while ending their marginalization and offering them the chance to achieve prosperity. As we meet here today, the Israeli-Palestinian crisis remains at its all too familiar impasse, despite the fact that everyone knows what is needed to restore peace. We all know that the targeting of civilians must stop, that the security of Israel must be assured, that settlement-building must end, that the humanitarian needs of the Palestinian people must be met, that the Palestinian Authority must reform itself democratically and that the peace negotiations must resume. We all know, in sum, that a road to a peaceful future must be built, a future in which two independent, viable, secure and democratic States, Israel and Palestine, live side by side in peace and security. Canada calls on the Palestinian Authority and the Government of Israel to start back on the road to peace. The people and the Government of Canada will accompany them and support them every step of the way. We also meet here today in an atmosphere of deepening tension caused by Iraq's continued flouting of the will of the international community and by the differing opinions that prevail around us on how to address this situation and bring the crisis to a close. Let there be no doubt: at the origin of today's tensions is the persistent refusal of the Iraqi Government to comply with its obligations to us all under Security Council resolutions. For the past seven years, Iraq has refused to demonstrate that it has abandoned its chemical, biological and nuclear weapons programmes, and it remains even today unwilling to do so. But let there also be no doubt that bringing Iraq into conformity with its international obligations must be the work of us all acting together. We believe that our ability to find a solution to this challenge, one that is consistent with and, indeed, that reinforces the international framework that we have so painstakingly constructed since the last devastating World War, will define this generation and create precedents that may determine the future direction of the world. It is with this in mind that Canada welcomes the powerful message delivered here today by President Bush affirming his country's commitment to work with the Security Council in resolving this serious threat to our collective peace and security. We therefore urge Iraq to seize this opportunity without delay, and to grant immediate and unconditional access to United Nations weapons inspectors in compliance with its Security Council obligations. The onus is clearly on the Government of Iraq to take this step now. The onus is equally on us to ensure that our international institutions emerge from this crisis reinforced and strengthened. Such institutions may well be new, as in the case of the International Criminal Court (ICC), a body that has the potential to ensure the integrity of our 27 international legal system, upon which so much depends for the peaceful resolution of our differences. This week I had the privilege of attending the inaugural meeting of the Assembly of States Parties here in New York with many in this Hall and was encouraged by the depth of international political and public support that exists for this important new body. The people of the world want an end to impunity. They insist that their leaders no longer turn a blind eye to gross violations of international humanitarian law like those we witnessed in the past century. Immunity from the law is simply no longer acceptable. The States parties to the ICC Statute are more than willing to put into action the proposition that we can best enforce rules of law that we have arrived at by our common accord those indeed that we are willing to have invoked against us as well. For the 79 States parties that attended the Assembly of States Parties and the many observer States close to ratifying the Rome Statute, our objective remains to work resolutely and cooperatively to make the Court a reality. The International Criminal Court represents a major change in the way the world works. The times we live in demand many such innovative approaches. For example, in response to a call from the Secretary- General, Canada, along with others, launched the independent International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty. Its landmark report, entitled `The Responsibility to Protect', has shifted the parameters of the debate from divisions over intervention toward agreement on the responsibility of a State to protect its people. The report holds that sovereignty entails responsibilities as well as rights: that sovereignty is responsibility. When States are unable or unwilling to afford protection to their own people, the international community has a responsibility to step in temporarily and to provide that protection. The report represents, in our view, an opportunity for us to reinforce the United Nations in its collective security mission. It also provides an occasion to affirm the fundamental norm-building role of the United Nations and to find better ways to prevent and, where necessary, alleviate human suffering. Part of our shared responsibility to raise the credibility of multilateral institutions is to address their shortcomings, including those of the United Nations itself. We are greatly encouraged that the Secretary- General and his Deputy, Louise FrÈchette, are proposing far-reaching organizational reforms. They can count on Canada's support. We also support reform in other areas, notably in respect to the nearly moribund Disarmament Commission and its glacial progress on issues of non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament, where recent gains such as the United Nations Programme of Action on small arms and light weapons and the negotiations on an international code of conduct on missiles are being overshadowed by a myriad of compliance problems. Certainly, there are problems with multilateralism and the institutions we have created, but that should not cause us to doubt the desirability of an effective rules-based system. Our objective should be to address these shortcomings where we see them and reform what we must, and in the process answer the criticisms of those suspicious of an interdependent world. We will persuade the sceptics only by building better institutions to implement the international rule of law and globally arrived-at solutions to our common problems. Let us therefore embrace cooperation, not division. Let us expand our sovereignty by pooling it. Let us be partners in the larger enterprise of building peace and freedom. No one country can meet all the challenges of our times on its own. Let us have confidence in our common humanity. Let us make the United Nations our principal instrument of peace. I pledge to the Assembly today that Canada will spare no effort in so doing.   ﻿Two years ago I came to the rostrum of this Assembly with mixed feelings. On the one hand, my country had just witnessed an unprovoked attempt to derail the peace process. The United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) was still recovering from a brazen affront to its military capability and the authority of the Security Council. On the other hand, I was optimistic, first of all because the people of Sierra Leone had once again demonstrated their resolve to maintain their struggle for peace. I was also optimistic because the Security Council had responded appropriately by giving UNAMSIL additional responsibilities within its mandate, and by increasing the troop level of the mission. Today, I stand here with only one feeling, an overwhelming feeling of joy. At long last the rebel war in Sierra Leone is over. All combatants have been disarmed and demobilized. Reintegration is well under way. Over 55,000 ex-combatants are currently engaged in reintegration programme activities, ranging from formal education and vocational-skills training to small-scale trade, agriculture and community development. While the National Commission on Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration is concentrating on the integration of ex-combatants, another national agency, the National Commission for Social Action, is actively engaged in programmes that will benefit all categories of victims of the brutal war, particularly the most vulnerable population groups. Most heartening of the recent positive developments was the affirmation four months ago by the people of Sierra Leone that they would never forgo their constitutional right to choose their leaders freely through the ballot box. They sent a resounding message to the entire world that, in Africa, it is still possible to hold free and fair elections. 4 Our objective was not merely to win the rebel war, but to defend the right of our people to live. We fought against a brutal attempt by a few who, with the assistance of forces within and outside the subregion, were determined to assume power and gain unimpeded and perpetual access to our mineral resources. My primary objective as the democratically elected leader was for us to win the peace. Today, I am pleased to say here that the people of Sierra Leone are continuing to work assiduously to win the peace. We share the view that there cannot be real peace in Sierra Leone without justice. The support that we have so far received for the establishment of a special court to bring to justice those who bear the greatest responsibility for serious breaches of international humanitarian law and the national laws of Sierra Leone should also be regarded as part of the peace dividend. We are also convinced that we cannot speak about lasting peace in Sierra Leone without national reconciliation. Making the Truth and Reconciliation Commission fully operational after its inauguration in July 2002 has now become one of our major preoccupations. Let me add, however, that inadequate international support for the Commission could jeopardize prospects for national reconciliation which, members will agree with me, is one of the prerequisites of lasting peace and justice. The victory that the people of Sierra Leone have so far achieved in the peace process is theirs, but not theirs alone. It is also a victory for the United Nations, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the entire international community. Indeed, it is a victory for humanity, for all those who cherish the dignity and worth of the human person. Therefore, let me take this opportunity, on behalf of every Sierra Leonean, to express our profound and sincere gratitude to the United Nations family, ECOWAS and its Monitoring Group, and other regional intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations for their support in our prolonged struggle. This was a partnership for peace and security that we will never forget. With your permission, Sir, I am obliged once again to single out for commendation some special friendly States that played a crucial role in that effort. I refer to the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Republics of Guinea, Ghana and Mali, and the United States of America and China, among others. We will always remember their place in the great partnership for peace and security that wrenched Sierra Leone from the verge of total destruction. This is what collective responsibility is all about in our interdependent world. While we celebrate our mutual success, we should at the same time be aware of the challenges that we face not only in Sierra Leone, but also in the Mano River Union and the West African subregions. Our success notwithstanding, the situation in our part of the continent continues to pose a threat to international peace and security. That threat will remain and could increase if we fail to consolidate the gains that we have made in Sierra Leone. I should therefore like to reiterate my recent appeal to the United Nations and the international community as a whole to remain engaged in our national effort to consolidate our hard- won peace. I was encouraged that, following the May 2002 elections, the Secretary-General and the President of the Security Council underscored the need to further consolidate what we have achieved so far. The people of Sierra Leone and the international community have made considerable investment in material and human resources to bring us to the stage at which we find ourselves today. It would be a terrible mistake if, by sheer complacency and a failure to adopt the appropriate course of action, we should allow the country to slip back into armed conflict. We share the view of the Secretary-General, expressed in his latest report on UNAMSIL, that the Organization should ensure that the next phase of the Mission does not jeopardize the progress achieved so far in stabilizing peace in Sierra Leone. Beyond Sierra Leone, there are ominous signs of spillover conflicts hovering around the subregion. It would also be tragic if we should underestimate the current threat to peace and go on procrastinating about ways of preventing a spillover. How then do we go about ensuring, at least in the short run, that Sierra Leone will sustain its newly-won peace? How do we contain the current hostilities across the border with Liberia? The need to address these questions has become more urgent as we approach the end of the current mandate of UNAMSIL. While looking forward to the new phase of that important instrument of peace, I thought that I should draw the attention of the Security Council, through the Secretary-General, to some of the issues that could be 5 taken into consideration and linked to an exit strategy for UNAMSIL. Recently, I shared my thoughts on this and related matters in a letter which I addressed to the Secretary- General. The letter has since been circulated as Security Council document S/2002/975 of 29 August 2002. Permit me to highlight some of the issues raised in that communication. These are issues related to the capacity of the Sierra Leone Armed Forces and the Sierra Leone police to perform their respective functions more effectively throughout the country; the challenges facing us in the integration of all ex- combatants; the risks following from the turbulent situation in neighbouring Liberia, and particularly its repercussions for peace and stability in Sierra Leone and the Mano River Union as a whole; the danger of the apparent absence of a strategic plan of the international community to address the situation in Liberia, especially as the country approaches crucial elections next year; and finally, the delay in responding to the request for international assistance to ECOWAS in ensuring security on the borders shared by Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. We are pleased that the Secretary-General has taken these and other issues into account in preparing his recommendations to the Security Council for a measured and phased downsizing of UNAMSIL. This will ensure that we do not provoke any new sense of insecurity in a population that has been traumatized for too long. I am also confident that the Security Council will consider the recommendations carefully, especially in the light of my Government's and the Secretary- General's own assessment that the conflict in Liberia still constitutes the most serious threat to the stability that now prevails in Sierra Leone. Who will forget that the 10-year rebel war in Sierra Leone was launched from the territory of Liberia? The current state of peace and security in Sierra Leone and the rest of the Mano River Union subregion is obviously a matter of constant concern to us. However, as a member of the global community, we are also seriously concerned about impediments to international cooperation for economic and social development; about threats to international peace and security, including the nuclear arms race and terrorism in all its forms and manifestations; and about the rights of such vulnerable population groups as children and people with disabilities. All those often require appropriate multilateral agreements or arrangements to ensure that they are effectively addressed. Never since the end of the Second World War has multilateral cooperation become such a necessary means for resolving international disputes and for ensuring the well-being of people everywhere. Sierra Leone, therefore, attaches the utmost importance to the strengthening of multilateral cooperation, as reflected by such recent conferences as the International Conference on Financing for Development and the World Summit on Sustainable Development. Those provide effective platforms for articulating the interests of all States and for devising common strategies to address collectively problems that would otherwise overwhelm the capacities of individual countries or regions. It is, therefore, self-evident that we must continue to pursue the multilateral approach to those and other international issues. The consequences of diminishing or bypassing the multilateral approach in matters that affect the lives of millions of people worldwide could, I should emphasize, be disastrous for us all. Two years ago, in the Millennium Declaration, heads of State and Government, in the spirit of interdependence, made a commitment to work together in achieving specific goals in areas such as peace, security and disarmament, human rights, good governance and poverty eradication. Those goals are all underpinned by a strong belief in the principles of multilateral cooperation and shared interests. Of special significance to us are the commitments made by the world leaders in the Millennium Declaration to meet the special needs of Africa. That is not only because Africa has the largest number of countries classified as least developed, and in which almost half the population lives in abject poverty. It is also because we have all benefited and stand to benefit from each other's resources. In spite of its current level of overall development, Africa has a lot to offer to the rest of the world. Of course, we Africans realize our responsibility, first and foremost, to develop and implement strategies for improving the quality of life of our people and for strengthening our capacity to contribute more effectively to the economies of our partners in the developed world. 6 In effect, that is what the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is all about — partnership among African countries, partnership with the rest of the world and progress for all mankind. It is in that context that the conclusions reached at the high- level meeting of the Assembly earlier this week on ways and means of supporting NEPAD assume supreme importance for my country. In a similar vein, Sierra Leone also welcomes the commitment of the eight major industrialized countries, the G-8, at their recent meeting in Canada, to provide strong support to NEPAD and to establish enhanced partnerships with African countries whose performance reflects the NEPAD commitments. Sierra Leone, for its part, is determined to pursue vigorously the objectives set out in NEPAD, not just because we need donor assistance at this time, but more so because we believe in the soundness of those objectives as a vehicle for the eradication of extreme poverty, the achievement of sustainable development and the assumption of greater responsibility for our own destiny. I began by assuring the Assembly that I came this time with one overwhelming feeling, a feeling of joy over recent developments in my country. Of course, the search for sustainable peace with justice and national reconciliation is a continuous process, and we are well aware of the challenges that we still have to face. However, I can say with confidence that what we have so far achieved, with the support of the United Nations and the international community, has provided the momentum for us to meet those challenges.  ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly and to wish him every success in discharging his functions. Because of the profound friendship that exists between Tunisia and the Czech Republic, we assure him of our cooperation and support as he conducts the business of this session. I would also like to take this opportunity to convey our thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, who conducted the last session's work so ably and effectively. It gives me pleasure to express our appreciation and gratitude to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who is constantly playing a constructive and effective role in the service of the noble goals of our Organization. I would like to extend Tunisia's congratulations to the Swiss Confederation on its admission to membership in the United Nations. The various repercussions of the events of 11 September last, that we have all vigorously condemned, continue to be felt and to remind the members of the international community that strengthening our common action is essential for meeting the security and development challenges confronting our world today. These challenges must be dealt with through increased discussion, cooperation and solidarity, on the basis of a global, integrated vision of the future. The establishment of a link between security and development, as well as a delicate understanding of the dialectic that exists between these two elements, make it possible not only to find an effective solution to certain international problems but also to prevent their occurring. The global vision that we advocate as a modus operandi at the international level is basically built on strengthened values of understanding and interaction among religions, civilizations and cultures, on enshrining the principles of solidarity, moderation and tolerance, on poverty eradication, combating exclusion and marginalization; a vision that requires a collective stand against fanaticism and terrorism. These principles and values are based on the civilizational plan that His Excellency President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali has constantly advocated during this new era in Tunisian society. This plan was strengthened following the essential constitutional reform, which was unanimously adopted for the people of Tunisia during a referendum and during which the people opted for a Republic of tomorrow, based on the rule of law and institutions, the protection of human rights and solidarity among members of our society. The successes and achievements gained in our country, thanks to this integrated global approach that we have adopted to redress the social, economic, political and cultural situation of the Tunisian people, have strengthened our conviction that international relations must be based on the same approach for the well-being of humanity at large and for meeting the challenges we are facing today. Tunisia has on a number of occasions submitted several initiatives, in particular the appeal made in 1989 from this rostrum by His Excellency Mr. Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, President of the Republic, for a universal covenant of peace and progress, laying down the foundation of a better future for the international community in a spirit of constructive cooperation, immune to conflicts and to wastage of resources and energy. Tunisia believes that it is time to hold an international conference to draft common denominators that would provide a basis for a code of conduct to be observed by all parties. This code would help to initiate 22 a responsible dialogue that would avoid any double standards and would attenuate any feelings of deprivation or oppression felt by many peoples. We believe that the United Nations would be the ideal forum to develop and sponsor this kind of dialogue among States. One year after the painful events that shook the United States, the danger of terrorism is still felt, and it continues to pose a threat to international peace and security. We therefore have to demonstrate constant resolve in the face of this phenomenon in our attempts to eradicate it once and for all. Now that the most obvious manifestations of terrorism have been dealt with, the international community must tackle its causes which are linked to security, development and culture. Tunisia was one of the first countries to warn about the dangers of terrorism, well before the events of 11 September. At the beginning of the 1990s, we were in favour of coordinated, international efforts to deal with, contain and eliminate this scourge. It is disquieting that certain terrorists are still present in many countries and enjoy protection under the pretext of granting them the right of political asylum, without any inquiry into their actions, their activities or the crimes that they committed against their countries of origin. Many regions of the world still suffer the horrors of poverty and destitution. Only through a focused, careful approach to achieve the Millennium Goals, which were reaffirmed at several subsequent international conferences, will it be possible to resolve this situation. Tunisia had already adopted an initiative along these lines by proposing the creation of a world solidarity fund to combat poverty in the world. Two years after this initiative was put forward, and after its adoption by the General Assembly, and following the decision taken by the World Summit for Sustainable Development that discussed setting up this fund, we hope now that the research and studies conducted in this framework, particularly the latest report of the United Nations Secretary-General on modalities for the functioning of and the use of such a fund, will make it possible for the fund to come into being this year. Poverty eradication is a crucial element in guaranteeing the stability of societies and preventing other scourges, such as wars, terrorism and diseases, particularly since this is basic to any global strategy that guarantees international peace and security. Africa continues to suffer from conflicts and from economic and development problems and requires constant attention from the international community. Many analyses have proven that the instability of the continent is basically due to Africa's economic and social problems. Many international meetings and summits have also confirmed this. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is an initiative that might draw the attention of donor States and the attention of international financial institutions to this situation. We believe that if the international community wants Africa to have a bright future, it cannot continue to disregard its basic needs or subject it to mere geostrategic considerations, or, indeed, tie international aid to harsh conditions that many African States cannot fulfil. The international community must now play a prominent role in prevailing upon Israel to halt its aggression against the Palestinian people, withdraw from the occupied territories and abide by international law on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and other relevant resolutions, as well as on the basis of the principle of “land for peace”. The Palestinian people need the unflagging support of the international community so that it can recover its legitimate rights, primarily its right to create a State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. Israel's policy of assassinating Palestinian leaders, of maintaining a blockade against the legitimate President Yasser Arafat, of starving civilians, and of massacring people and expelling them from their land in violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention only worsens this situation and fans resentment and a desire for revenge. The international community must redouble its efforts to bring about a return to the negotiating table in order to give real meaning to the vision of two States, Palestine and Israel, living side by side within secure recognized borders, as advocated by President Bush in his speech made in June 2002, and on the basis of the comprehensive approach advocated by the Arab plan adopted at the recent Arab Summit in Beirut. Tunisia has always worked for peace in the Middle East. We have taken part in the multilateral negotiations and today are ready to continue our constructive role for the resumption of talks and the establishment of a just, comprehensive and lasting peace that will guarantee the liberation of Arab 23 territories still occupied by Israel since 1967, including the Syrian Golan and the remainder of the Lebanese territory still under Israeli occupation. Furthermore, lasting peace and stability for all the peoples of the Middle East requires continued international efforts to make progress on the question of Iraq through peaceful means and by implementing relevant Security Council resolutions. We believe that dialogue between the United Nations and Iraq remains the best way to resolve all outstanding Iraqi issues. We welcome, in this regard, Iraq's decision to accept the return of the weapons inspectors without conditions. This is, as was noted by the Secretary- General at the beginning of our session, a step towards détente in the region and the lifting of sanctions. Tunisia supports the Arab position that rejects attacks against any Arab country and any further suffering and harm to the brotherly Iraqi people. Our position also supports maintaining the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq, as well as the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State of Kuwait, while stressing the need to avoid any destabilization of security there. We wish to reaffirm the need to lift, once and for all, the sanctions against sisterly Libya, which has fulfilled all its commitments and has offered its full cooperation towards finding a just and satisfactory solution to the Lockerbie case. The global vision of peace and security in the world is no less important at the regional level, which complements and supports joint international action. Tunisia considers the Arab Maghreb Union as a strategic choice and we have continuously worked to consolidate it and to remove obstacles that have impeded its progress. We hope that joint Maghreb action will lead to greater integration among the countries of the Union. On the regional level, Tunisia is working to deepen its relations of cooperation and partnership in the Euro- Mediterranean region. We welcome the reactivation of the “Five plus Five” forum, which will lead to greater opportunities to promote dialogue, cooperation and solidarity between the two shores of the Mediterranean and will strengthen elements of peace, stability, and development. In this manner, relations may develop among countries of this forum in a spirit of mutual respect, while preserving the interest of all parties. Tunisia will work on this basis and do everything it can to guarantee the success of the “Five plus Five” summit, which we will be hosting in 2003. The considerable technological advances witnessed today definitely have an impact on international economic recovery. Mindful of the importance of this issue, Tunisia was one of the first countries to call for the holding of a summit on information technology, an idea that was unanimously supported by all international parties. Tunisia will have the honour of hosting the World Summit on the Information Society in 2005. We hope that the General Assembly will continue to help prepare the groundwork in order to make it a success. In this context, we would like to stress the need to facilitate the transfer of clean technology to developing countries and to promote means of cooperation among North-South and South-South countries, as well as to strengthen financial cooperation in order to provide additional funding to projects relating to environmental protection in the developing countries. The subjects discussed in Johannesburg and the matters discussed at the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, as well as the subjects dealt with in the WTO conference in Doha should complement one another. In the interest of all countries, particularly the developing countries, globalization must be made a factor for progress for everyone as well as a factor for strengthening peace and security. Today's world promises new hopes and ambitions but also contains threats and challenges, the implications of which should be understood. Tunisia's message to this Assembly is that we should work together to draw up an act of international partnership in all fields based on an international code of conduct for all parties, in the political, economic, development, security and stability fields. The principles that unite us in promoting the major priorities and preventing new dangers to international peace and security should impel us to adopt a preventive approach based, first, on respect for the principle of international law as the basis for peaceful coexistence; secondly, on providing equal opportunities for all developing countries without any 24 exclusion or marginalization and thirdly, on resolving international problems, conflicts, crises or wars on the basis of established principles of justice and in keeping with international law. ﻿Let me first congratulate Mr. Kavan on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session and for the excellent manner in which he has been presiding over our deliberations since the beginning of the session. With the calibre of leadership he has displayed, added to his vast experience and wisdom, I have no doubt that our deliberations will be easily guided to a successful outcome. Let me also express my delegation's thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his efficiency and effectiveness in conducting the business of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I would be remiss if I did not pay homage to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for another year of fine stewardship of our Organization and of humanity at large. Thanks to his leadership, our Organization has been able to cross a number of important frontiers in the year since we last met. Lastly, my delegation warmly congratulates East Timor on its full transition to democracy, its successful conduct of democratic elections, its recent accession to independence and its subsequent admission into our United Nations family. Our congratulations also go to the Government and people of Switzerland on acceding to full membership of the United Nations as the 190th and newest Member State. Our session is being convened at a time when the anniversary of the dastardly 11 September attack on the United States is being observed. We join the rest of the world, including the families of the victims, in remembering those who lost their lives and we pray that almighty God grant them eternal rest. Gambians were among the thousands from many nations of the world who were victims of the attack. This only goes to show that terrorism knows no national boundaries. In commemorating 11 September, President Jammeh declared a public holiday for people to stay home and pray. We must therefore harness all our efforts and cooperate effectively to address this wicked phenomenon and its root causes. Let me take this opportunity to commend the Counter-Terrorism Committee established pursuant to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) for the good work that it is doing in enhancing cooperation in the field of counter-terrorism. In the course of this year, the Gambia was able to accede to all the major treaties relating to terrorism and we are currently in the process of implementing resolution 1373 (2001). The year 2002 has been a busy one for us all. First, we came here for the special session on children. Then, we went off to Monterrey for the International Conference on Financing for Development, and we just recently concluded our deliberations on sustainable development in Johannesburg, South Africa. At each of these important forums, we were offered the opportunity of rededicating ourselves to the noble objectives of our Organization, especially those that were so strongly evinced at the Millennium Summit and enshrined in the millennium development goals, which we all espoused. Through our deliberations at these meetings in the course of this year, we have recommitted ourselves to striving in a more purposeful and determined manner to spread and deepen democracy throughout the world; do better in protecting human rights, fundamental human freedoms and the rule of law; strengthen our 17 cooperation in the fight against hunger, poverty and disease; do more to protect the weak and vulnerable in our respective societies, particularly children, the aged and the handicapped; and redouble our efforts to sanitize and preserve the physical and human ecology and environment. These are some of the important pillars on which world peace and security are built and which we must consciously work to strengthen and preserve from crumbling. That is the only sure way that global security and development, which are at the core of our Organization's mandate, can be assured. We in the Gambia have been doing all we can to stay the course in the uphill task of nation-building under the inspired and dynamic leadership of President Al Hadji Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh. In the area of good governance, I am pleased to inform this body that, with special reference to the democratization process, following the much-acclaimed presidential elections held last October, National Assembly elections were held on 17 January and local Government elections on 25 April 2002. Mindful of the need to cultivate the culture of democracy and good governance, the Government of the Gambia has since developed and adopted a national governance policy and programme. The main components of the policy framework are constitutional review and reform of electoral processes; enhancing parliamentary structures and processes; civic education; reform of legal and judicial processes and constitutional review; public sector management and administrative reform; and decentralization and reform of local Government systems. Clearly, governance constitutes an important component of our poverty reduction strategy. Halfway through the United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty, and in spite of all the commitments we have made over the years to reduce poverty and to accelerate the pace of social and economic development throughout the world, the gap between the rich and the poor is widening and the absolute number of poor people, especially in the developing world, is increasing. The scourge of poverty is insidious. It contains within itself all the elements that militate against its victim's ability to rise above his or her condition. Therefore, fighting poverty calls for conscious, deliberate interventions that only the strong can provide to help the weak. These interventions come, for the most part, in the form of resource flows. Unfortunately, these have been dwindling over the years and, in spite of the recent commitments made by the G8 countries in Kananaskis in support of the new African initiative — the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), for which we are grateful — overall, the shortfalls in the fight against poverty are still huge and growing. The international community should not lead African countries to disenchantment. The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative is, for the most part, still good only on paper, largely speaking. Protectionist policies and heavy subsidies continue to frustrate our efforts to earn a decent living through production and trade. And the promises of increased official development assistance and other forms of assistance over four United Nations Development Decades have remained largely unfulfilled. In fact, this session of the General Assembly will look into the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s, and the main conclusion will be that, by and large, the commitments made by Africa's development partners have not been met. We missed another opportunity for the multilateral system to work towards poverty eradication and social and economic development. With special reference to the plight of least developed countries, I would like to add the Gambia's voice to those of previous speakers in calling for a renewed commitment to implementing the programme of action for the least developed countries for the decade 2001-2010. In that connection, we commend the General Assembly for the decision taken to establish the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States. We look forward to working closely with the High Representative. The recently held ministerial meeting of least developed countries in Cotonou was indeed timely, and we call on the rest of the international community to lend its full support to the least developed countries so that we implement fully the decisions taken. We cannot, however, discuss the issue of poverty alleviation without mentioning the problem of women and children. With regard to our women folk, we need to focus more on the 12 critical areas of concern laid out in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, 18 including gender inequalities. As for the issues concerning children, we hope that the follow-up summit held here in New York recently will strengthen us in our resolve to achieve the noble goals that we have set for ourselves to give our children a brighter future. For our part, in the Gambia we have evolved a strong and focused policy on poverty, which we have articulated in a programme of action for poverty alleviation. The strategy is anchored on my Government's commitment to eradicate poverty in the long term, by increasing income through economic growth and empowering the population with the capacity for sustainable development. Our fight against poverty stands on five pillars: the creation of an enabling environment for economic growth and development, enhancing the productive capacity and social protection of the poor, improving coverage of basic services, political empowerment of civil society, and strengthened partnerships with development stakeholders. My Government is committed to relentlessly pursuing those objectives in line with the objectives of the Millennium Development Goals. In that, we shall be counting on the wholehearted support of the international community. At this juncture, I would like to express my Government's most profound gratitude to our principal partners in development and to the donor community at large for their active participation at the sixth Roundtable Donors Conference for the Gambia, held in Geneva on 18 and 19 September 2002. We are confident that all the pledges made will be honoured so that together, in the true spirit of international solidarity, we will implement smoothly and successfully our national programme of action for poverty alleviation. That is all the more urgent considering the fact that, during the rainy season this year, we experienced a long dry spell initially, resulting in the poor performance of both crops and livestock. It is our hope that all nations of the world will redouble their efforts to live up to the commitments they made in Rio and, just recently, reaffirmed in Johannesburg. Even as we search for ways of taking our people out of poverty, we should also be mindful of the need to conserve our natural environment. Of particular concern to my delegation are the destructive fishing practices in the South Atlantic. Despite the adoption of numerous international instruments to regulate fishing with a view to conserving fish stocks, unsustainable and often illegal fishing continues unabated in our coastal waters. The unbridled pursuit of profit without due regard to sustainability and long-term food security is the only reason for that undesirable situation. My delegation therefore calls on all Member States to cooperate with us to address this serious state of affairs and to provide us with technical and other forms of assistance to enable all affected countries to better police their waters in order to arrest those unsustainable and harmful fishing practices. The momentum generated in Johannesburg must not be allowed to wither away. It must be recognized, however, that there can be no meaningful development without peace and stability. That is why we attach great importance to the issue of peacekeeping. In the field of peacekeeping, our Organization continues to score remarkable successes. We appreciate the efforts of the Security Council to put in place a rapid response mechanism through which a multinational force could quickly be deployed to any part of the world. However, there is need to ensure that adequate resources are made available so that no peacekeeping operation is disrupted on account of lack of funds, thereby plunging the countries concerned back into a vortex of violence. Funding availability is also important to bridge the gap between peacekeeping and national reconstruction. The determination with which we have dealt with threats to peace has paid handsome dividends in the period since we last met. That is why we welcome the great efforts made to distinguish the existing conflicts in Africa, especially in Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Angola. With regard to the Sudan, my Government applauds the signing of the Machacos Protocol between the Government and the Sudanese People's Liberation Army (SPLA). We hope and pray that the process now started will finally bring that protracted conflict to an end. While we may rightly commend ourselves on those achievements, we must not rest on our oars. There are still some significant areas of uncertainty and volatility in our own West African subregion that we need to address. That requires a relentless effort. 19 In our capacity as coordinator of the Group of friends of Guinea-Bissau, here at the United Nations, we are calling on the rest of the international community to provide more assistance to that sister country. In that way, the democratization process will be consolidated and the country's economic performance enhanced. We must bear in mind that ending hostilities is one thing and getting the system on the right path to social and economic development of the type that would eliminate the causes of conflict is quite another. In like manner, a successful transition into a democratic dispensation does not necessarily, in and of itself, usher in peace and security. In many of the countries where conflicts have ended, political stability remains fragile, and uncertainty and instability prevail. In those countries, there is need to go beyond the immediate political requirements for consolidating peace, to address governance in its broadest sense, including its economic and financial aspects, as well as the capacities required for strengthening it. That is the emerging challenge for the international community. We must devise mechanisms for follow-through into peace-building and be ready to provide the resources to progressively restore confidence and strength among those at the frontline. President Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, the Government and people of the Gambia are fully committed to the search for peace and the resolution of conflicts everywhere, particularly in our immediate subregion. That is why we not only open our doors to our neighbours in distress, hosting many refugees, but we also work actively with them as well as with other members of the international community, including the Secretary-General and his able team to remove misunderstandings that could easily lead to a flare up of conflict. The situation in the Middle East remains a matter of grave concern to my delegation. The Security Council must show more leadership in the efforts of the international community to contain and resolve the serious tensions between Israel and Palestine, which pose a grave threat to the stability of the nations in the region and the peace of the whole world. It is unacceptable for the world to stand back and watch as helpless civilians are attacked in refugee camps or are killed or maimed by suicide bombers. The suffering of innocent people in the Middle East must be brought to an end immediately. My delegation strongly urges, therefore, that all the relevant United Nations resolutions on Palestine and the Middle East, notably Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), be complied with without further delay. We also fully support those who have called for the recognition of the State of Israel by all nations, as well as the creation and the recognition by all of a State of Palestine. Elsewhere in the Middle East, there are still some unresolved issues. The situation between Iraq and Kuwait has still not been fully resolved, and we are still seeking a satisfactory resolution of the question of the Kuwaiti prisoners of war and missing persons, as well as the return of the Kuwaiti national archives. Within Iraq itself, we in the Gambia have always called for the alleviation of the suffering of the innocent Iraqi people. With regard to the other unfinished business of weapons inspections, my delegation applauds the decision of the Government of Iraq to invite the United Nations weapons inspectors to return to Iraq to resume their work. We have always upheld the view that parties to any dispute should allow the United Nations to assume its responsibility unhindered in our common quest for amicable closure to conflict situations. We therefore note with satisfaction the important statement made by President Bush recognizing the central role of the United Nations and calling on the latter to assume its responsibility. But let us also remember that we, all of us — nations big and small, rich and poor — constitute the United Nations. It can be only what we the Member States want it to be. The choice is ours. In South Asia, we cannot be indifferent to the prevailing situation between India and Pakistan. Those are two great countries with which the Gambia has always enjoyed excellent relations. We are therefore calling on them, out of that friendship, to exercise restraint at all times and to withdraw their troops from their respective borders. After years of hard work and tough negotiations, we finally succeeded in establishing the International Criminal Court (ICC), with the entry into force of the Rome Statute. We salute the tireless efforts of all those who contributed in one way or another to that huge success. It is our fervent hope that the Court, with the active collaboration of all like-minded States, will act as an effective instrument in the fight against 20 international crimes of all sorts and, by extension, extinguish the culture of impunity. Turning now to the issue of sanctions, my delegation firmly believes that the time has now come for us to review the procedure being used to impose sanctions on countries and individuals. The permanent members of the Security Council, who determine who should be placed on a sanctions or travel ban list, do not usually provide evidence, either to the individual concerned or to his Government, to justify their decision. We have come to see that in many cases, such decisions are based on speculation and conjecture and that the individuals in question really did not deserve to be punished and humiliated. Thus far, most Governments have been very cooperative and, while repeatedly requesting to no avail that evidence of wrong-doing be made known to them, have nonetheless gone along with the rest of the international community in respecting the decision taken by the Council. Some of those Governments, mine included, are reaching the point of exasperation and have resolved that, unless the evidence being requested of the Security Council is provided, they will refuse to comply with any ban or sanctions imposed on their nationals. We sometimes wonder whether someone out there does not have a hidden agenda. As sovereign nations, we demand more transparency before acquiescing to our nationals being punished for wrongdoings that we have not been shown they have committed. The United Nations Security Council must not be a bully. In like manner, the multifaceted sanctions imposed on Cuba are still in place despite numerous resolutions calling for their removal. A window of opportunity now exists for them to be finally set aside. It is in nobody's interest to continue to pursue policies against Cuba that have lost their appeal. Sabres are rattling on one side of the Taiwan Strait in the face of 23 million souls, for their merely having claimed their God-given right to be recognized as a political, economic and social entity. The Republic of China on Taiwan is today the only country on earth that is not represented in the United Nations, contrary to the main guiding principle of the United Nations: the principle of universality. Article four of the Charter invites “all ... peace-loving States” to become Members of the Organization. The people of Taiwan have demonstrated over the years not only that they are peace-loving but also that they can contribute to all the objectives of the United Nations in the fields of global security, financial stability, culture, industrial and technological growth and sustainable development. Taiwan is not an insignificant player in the world production and trade arena. It is the world's sixteenth largest economy. It is equally highly developed in the field of scientific and medical research. In recognition of its importance as a trading nation, it was recently admitted into the World Trade Organization. Logic demands that, for the very same reason, it should also be admitted into the World Health Organization in recognition of its importance as a country of highly sophisticated and developed health services; into the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization because of its exceptionally high standing in the fields of science and culture; into the United Nations Industrial Development Organization because of its most advanced industrial and technological development; into the United Nations Children's Fund because of its highly developed child development policies and programmes; into the Food and Agriculture Organization, the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the World Food Programme because of its extremely well developed agriculture and its importance as a food producer; and into the United Nations Development Programme because of its huge official development assistance to developing countries for capacity-building and poverty alleviation. In short, it should be admitted into all branches of the United Nations family because of the tremendous contributions it could make to the ideals and programmes of the United Nations. Taiwan is a vibrant democracy with high ratings on human rights, press freedom and the observance of the rights of the individual. It could contribute immensely to global security and the fight against terrorism. It is therefore baffling that this highly developed, friendly and peace-loving nation has been barred from membership in the United Nations for purely political reasons. My Government will not rest until this injustice is undone and the Republic of China on Taiwan is granted its rightful place among the comity of nations. Still in the same region, with regard to the Korean Peninsula, my delegation would like to reiterate once again our unflinching support for all the efforts geared towards peaceful unification. 21 Finally, my delegation believes that the General Assembly needs to be strengthened so that it could play an even greater role in our quest for a just and equitable world order. We welcome the moves being made to reform this important organ of the United Nations in ways that would render it more effective in discharging its mandate. This is particularly true of the Security Council. We in the Gambia will continue to add our voice to the clamour for the Security Council to be reformed in order to make it more democratic and more in tune with the realities of and requirements for global security in the twenty-first century. The credibility and relevance of the Security Council now depend on the reforms that we all have been calling for. The developing countries must be allowed a much more effective participation in this powerful organ of the United Nations. Africa should have a minimum of two permanent seats. In conclusion, we urge all nations, great and small, to work relentlessly towards preserving the ideals for which the Organization was set up. We should all eschew behaviours that undermine the objectives of the United Nations and that frustrate its efforts. Multilateralism is the only hope left to mankind for the peaceful resolution of conflicts and the maintenance of international peace and security. Let us cherish and nurture it. Multilateralism will thrive only if there is trust and confidence among all the actors. But a system that repeatedly frustrates and lets down one portion of its membership will malfunction and eventually become ineffective and irrelevant. We must therefore all do more to ensure that such a fate does not befall our Organization. ﻿The heroic people of Venezuela and its revolutionary Government greet all peoples and all Governments of the world represented in the General Assembly of the United Nations. I must begin by underlining the intense activity that Venezuela has undertaken within the framework of the agenda of the United Nations this year of 2002. For that reason, we made the effort to come here to this most timely session of the General Assembly. Venezuela began the year by assuming in January the presidency of the Group of 77 and China. We coordinated and managed that very important group of countries of the world, primarily the countries of the third world. First, we coordinated the preparations, documents, agreements and dialogues leading up to the Monterrey Summit, where we attended, speaking on behalf of the countries of the South and especially on behalf of the countries of the Group of 77 and China. Venezuela then continued that effort by coordinating our Group in preparation for the important Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development, held a few days ago. The discussions at the Johannesburg Summit are still fresh in our minds. This year, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela also held the presidency of the Group of 15, another important group of developing countries fighting for greater scope in the political, economic and social domains. Finally, Venezuela has had a very intense agenda at the United Nations during this year of 2002, and in the remaining months we wish to finish the year with an even greater intensity, making proposals, coordinating actions and seeking decisions to complete and contribute our modest effort in the search for the solutions, goals and objectives set out in this Hall during the historic Millennium Summit of 2000. Thus we come once again to this Hall to ensure that the world hears the voice of millions of men, women and children who fight daily for their life and dignity by striving towards justice in the homeland of SimÛn Bolvar. To begin, I would say that this session of the General Assembly is meeting amidst the suffering and 2 mourning afflicting the people of the United States, the people and city of New York and all peoples of the world, on this first anniversary of the heinous acts of 11 September. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, from the soul of its heroic people and from the heart of its revolutionary and democratic Government, prays to God our Lord for the eternal peace of the victims of those horrible events. It also reiterates its sentiments of solidarity and condolences to their families. It affirms its condemnation of those who planned and carried out those terrorist actions. We also offer our efforts in the fight against the scourge of terrorism in the world in its most diverse facets and manifestations. However, at the same time, Venezuela stresses the necessity of recognizing the complexity of the alarming situation in the world today. The direct condemnation of terrorism must necessarily be accompanied for ethical and moral reasons by an equally forceful condemnation of the causes and processes that have transformed the world into an infinite sum of marginalized individuals and a reign of injustice, inequality and poverty. It is written in the Bible, which contains God's words, that the only path to peace is justice. The resolute repudiation of terrorism must also be accompanied by an unreserved political resolve on the part of the leaders of the world to acknowledge, for example, that today's international economic system fuels a process in which the perverse doctrine of unbridled neoliberalism leads to greater poverty, inequality and despair among the poor peoples of our earth. For example, 17 people die of hunger every minute in the world. If we were to fulfil all the commitments undertaken to combat poverty, it would take us 130 years to eradicate it from the planet, according to figures cited in the most recent report of the United Nations Development Programme. The condemnation of terrorism must go hand in hand with a decision-making process that will make it possible to make greater headway in the war the war, I stress against poverty. For that reason, Venezuela has consistently advocated first at Monterrey and then, more recently, at Johannesburg that an international humanitarian fund should be created whose resources might come, for example, from a percentage of global military expenditure. It could be funded by a percentage of the immense resources, those billions and billions of dollars, that we, the developing countries, the poor countries, annually transfer to the developed world through the perverse mechanism of external debt or eternal debt, I should say. I am sure that the countries of Africa and Asia can tell the same story as we in Latin America do. In the last 20 years of the twentieth century, Latin America paid off more than twice the amount of its external debt. But now it turns out that we owe more than when we began this whole perverse process. It seems only fair to me that, given the situation that faces the world and the bleak path that we are following, this issue must be debated. Why not transfer a portion of this eternal debt' to an international humanitarian fund a fund that could also be financed by monies confiscated from drug traffickers, who do so much harm in the world, and from corrupt individuals who have walked off with billions of dollars from poor countries. Venezuela has a list that it will provide to the police forces of the world. It will assist them in getting back billions of dollars and in transferring them to an international fund. Such a fund could also be financed through a tax that could be levied, quite justly, on major speculative capital transactions. There could be other possible sources as well; of course, this would require a very high-level political decision at the global level. Today, faced with the world's tragedy, Venezuela insists on this idea, and we ask the United Nations to engage in a debate on this issue. In Johannesburg, for example, I recall that we began very interesting discussions in a number of round table meetings in which Venezuela participated. We discussed this topic, and I was very gratified to see a consensus emerge among the heads of State and Government present there. I was very pleased with the support expressed for that idea by the President of brotherly Brazil, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who, during the Johannesburg round tables, commented on the need to create instruments such as this, given that today's international financial agencies are not adequately equipped to combat poverty a scourge that besets all of humankind. President Cardoso referred to the Marshall Plan, which was put into effect to assist Europe in the post- war period. I think that today we would need hundreds of Marshall Plans around the world to save the countries of the third word from hell and from death. 3 But just as we condemn global terrorism and its causes, I have come to the Assembly also on behalf of the valiant people of the Bolivarian Republic to denounce out loud other kinds of terrorism and other kinds of causes. In Venezuela, we have seen the beginning of a process of planned, systematic terrorism, which erupted in violence and blood also on the eleventh 11 April, not 11 September this year, that is, five months ago. On that day, a fascist putsch overthrew the legitimate Government that I am privileged to head, and installed, for an extremely brief period, a dictatorship that filled with fear the streets, cities and villages of our beloved Venezuela. What were the causes of that bloody terrorist coup d'état, which resulted in the loss of dozens of human lives and wounded hundreds of people, who are still recovering from their very serious injuries? Quite simply, what we had was a democratic Government a legitimate Government elected by the people; a Government that has committed itself to revolutionary democracy and to political, economic and social change; a Government that has very resolutely and very seriously undertaken to put into effect the principles of the United Nations; a Government that has undertaken the task of carrying out social actions that will transform society in order to bring justice and equality to our people; a Government that has doubled the budget for education in less than three years; a Government that has doubled the health-care budget; a Government that has reduced by 10 per cent infant malnutrition; a Government that has increased by 10 per cent its people's access to drinking water; a Government that has reduced infant mortality from 21 per 1,000 to 17 per 1,000; a Government that has increased by 30 per cent children and adolescents' access to free and compulsory public education. This is a Government that has had to deal with the wild neoliberal privatization of health and education, a Government that began by reducing poverty and marginalization in a country that is full of wealth but has been governed by senseless elitists who were completely insensitive to people's needs. A Government such as this was overthrown by a fascist alliance among privileged sectors, factions instigating a coup d'état using media terror. There is an issue in today's world that needs to be discussed in the world but few dare to do so; I would like to be bold enough to discuss it. This issue is the use of mass media in the world. Venezuela is a good case to be studied. Mass media, exploiting the freedom of expression and the freedom of the press, supported the putsch and manipulated society. The most appalling thing was that, when the people reacted against the dictatorship, the popular reaction was silenced and broadcasting was stopped and nobody knew what was happening in Venezuela. I think this is a special case of ethics in media communications that deserves to be studied. A little while ago, a great intellectual and Latin American writer, the Uruguayan Eduardo Galeano, author of Open Veins of Latin America spoke of the question of mass media around the world and said this great truth: Never have so few deceived so many.' We need to tackle this with courage as we face the beginning of this century. The elitist perpetrators of the putsch used the mass media and think they can continue to use them. They used police terrorism and military terrorism and achieved a very powerful alliance that was successful in overthrowing the Government and succeeded in taking me prisoner and keeping me incommunicado for many hours on a Caribbean island. This fascist coup eliminated the Congress, overthrew all laws and all public branches of authority and did away with the judicial branch. It seized mayors and members of Parliament elected by the population. However, in spite of all of this, they could not oppress us. Within a few hours, something happened in Venezuela that has scarcely ever happened in any country or nation. People began to rush out into the streets, without weapons, with only the weapons of their courage and their hearts and with the Bolivarian Constitution in their hands. Millions of men and women and young people went out into the streets, clamouring for respect for their dignity and miracle of miracles in less than forty-eight hours, the Government along with patriotic soldiers overthrew the dictatorship, restored the Constitution, rescued the President who had been abducted and restored democracy to Venezuela. This was a miracle. Only a people that is united can achieve this. Only a people that is conscious and active can sweep away such fascist and terrorist assaults. This was the first time that this was ever seen in any nation for a very long time. Mine is a people that has regained its libertarian essence and its liberating essence. A people that, since the time of SimÛn Bolvar hardly two hundred years ago, has worked together with Colombia, Ecuador, 4 Peru, Bolivia, Panama to achieve the independence of half of the continent of the Americas. This is the Venezuelan people for whom I, once again, reaffirm my undying love and devotion for their courage and dignity. And here, from this rostrum, on behalf of this people, I offer my sincere and warm thanks for all the gestures of solidarity that we received from here, from the United Nations, from the Organization of American States, from Governments and above all, from many countries of the Americas. Messages came also from Asia, Europe, Africa and Oceania, because this was a unique situation at the beginning of this century. This constitution is a revolutionary peaceloving and democratic document. It was drafted by the people itself and is now being defended and promoted by the people. In conclusion, following these events we in Venezuela are aware, we know I realize that many people do not yet know we have experienced terrorism first hand. A few days ago a video came out, more proof of what was being planned in Venezuela. In that video an international journalist made some revelations, stating that he was called in the morning on the day of the coup and that, long before the first person fell dead as a result of shooting by a number of snipers there were some foreigners among them the coup perpetrators were already recording a message in which they said that President Ch·vez had ordered people to be killed and that there had been six deaths. Well before the firing and the massacre of defenceless people began, they had already recorded this message. Ultimately, fortunately, the military and civilian reaction was very rapid, because the terror that had been planned against the Venezuelan people on a massive scale would have meant that terrorist practices would be applied against anything that was popular or democratic in Venezuela. They expected to repeal the Constitution. But, of course, it was restored within forty-eight hours because of the peaceful democratic revolution brought about by the people. We are grateful for the international community's unequivocal condemnation of the coup d'état the nightmare that we experienced for some days in Venezuela. And we reaffirm that our Government, in which Venezuelans have placed their confidence in a number of successive democratic processes, will not engage in a witch hunt, or carrying out summary trials or executions. As the people say there is a song they sing in the streets: He's back, he's back, he's back.' With strict adherence to our humanitarian and Bolivarian tradition and upholding our national Constitution, we came back with our Constitution in our hands on the popular tide that swept the legitimate Government back, along with the Constitution, and put an end to the terrorists, the coup d'état and its perpetrators. For the first time in Venezuela's history, victory in a political conflict and bear in mind that this was the overthrow of a dictatorship meant that the Government that returned respected those who had been defeated. We have now engaged in a major national dialogue, a national debate. In this we have also requested the help of the United Nations through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and asked for support from representatives of the Organization of American States. We have also requested support from the Carter Center headed by former President Jimmy Carter. We are grateful for their support and we reaffirm that Venezuela will continue to be guided by God and by the hand of its people, with the Bolivarian Constitution in its grasp. In doing so we will be joining the world to contribute to seek out alternatives to the economic models that have unleashed hunger and misery upon the world. We will continue to make our modest contribution, backed by the efforts of millions. We will continue to make a supreme effort to change the world and to make it viable so that, as soon as possible in the twenty-first century, justice will be achieved. For, as the word of God has asserted for thousands of years, justice is absolutely the only path to genuine peace.  ﻿It is a great pleasure to join in the heartfelt congratulations addressed to Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the high post of President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Undoubtedly, he will apply his extensive professional and life experience to benefit 9 this General Assembly session, so that it will give fresh impetus to the efforts of our universal Organization. East Timor and Switzerland are new Members this year. The international community welcomes them with joy. We congratulate the Governments and peoples of those two friendly nations. Every year the issues the United Nations must address become more challenging. The need for a universal organization has become especially urgent over the past decade. It is understandable. The cold war has ended and humanity has entered a new stage of development. Addressing global issues and challenges through common efforts has become a basic dimension of that new stage. Another distinctive feature is the constructive nature of such efforts. A third dimension is common understanding that all those efforts, coupled with democratization of internal societies and international relations, should bring about improved living standards for Member States. The United Nations can and must play a significant role in coordinating national, regional and international efforts in the age of globalization. Tajikistan has been a Member State for the 10 years of its new history. As the Tajik State was being established, a fratricidal conflict was sweeping the country. However, over the past five years, peace and stability have prevailed in Tajikistan. Respect for Tajik history and traditions, human rights, an atmosphere of tolerance for diverse opinions and views and focus on major concerns of the nation are all fundamental components of the peace process in Tajikistan, whose lessons could be applied in resolving conflicts in other hotspots of the world. Tajikistan, which suffered to achieve its democracy, is creating today a secular society, has a substantial foundation for its development and looks to the future with optimism. That optimistic outlook is determined by President Emomali Rakhmonov's rational and carefully considered policy of establishing good relations with Tajikistan's neighbours and by the assistance and support received from the international community. The Tajik people extend special appreciation to the United Nations, which, during the time of our difficult trials, demonstrated in the most effective manner its peacemaking and humanitarian capacities. The United Nations, working in close cooperation with the Tajik Government, is showing in Tajikistan its capacity to strengthen peace and stability. We are satisfied with the performance of the United Nations Tajikistan Office of Peace-building in our country and believe that the experience it gained in Tajikistan can be used for the benefit of other States. The rehabilitation of the economy, the eradication of poverty, increasing the living standard and job creation are the issues that are still referred to as our country's most pressing problems. Tajikistan is a State whose social and economic development depends, to a great extent, on the international community's common and comprehensive approach to the issues of combating poverty, financing development, ensuring an equitable international trade system, eliminating ecological threats and resolving demographic problems. In that context, we invariably favour further enhancement of the role of the United Nations as the core international forum for developing such a common approach. Over the past few months, the Member States have achieved some progress in that area. Overall, we believe the outcome of the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey was positive, and we are looking forward to the implementation of its resolutions. Environmental issues and issues of sustainable development are among the top-ranking items of the United Nations agenda and, appropriately, are becoming a significant component of multilateral diplomacy. The World Summit on Sustainable Development, recently held in Johannesburg was one of the major events in that area. At the Summit, the world's top policy makers analysed the progress made in the implementation of Agenda 21 over the past 10 years. The concept of sustainable development that emerged from the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, was further elaborated and acquired new meaningful content. The international community faces the task of meeting the challenges established at the forum in Johannesburg. Accomplishing that task could give us hope that problems such as poverty eradication, environmental protection and ensuring social equity can be resolved in a comprehensive manner. It is our intention to make a viable contribution to implementing the World Summit resolutions. We hope 10 that international cooperation in that area will fully account for the specific conditions and economic capacities of the countries from different groups, particularly, the developing countries and countries with economies in transition. Over recent years we have witnessed a dynamic process in connection with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification. The number of Member States that ratified the Kyoto Protocol and the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety is increasing. Interaction between countries in addressing desertification and land degradation issues is gaining momentum. Tajikistan has been an active participant in those important processes. We believe it is essential to consistently continue coordination of the implementation of the Conventions in order to avoid duplication and ensure effective allocation of limited international resources. Among the most valuable assets of our planet are water resources. They are at the core of both ecological balance and economic prosperity. They are an indispensable prerequisite for food production, improvement of social welfare and economic growth. However, even today many regions of the world face a shortage of fresh water. According to the Secretary- General, if current practices of water usage persist, by 2025 two thirds of the world's population will be living in a country experiencing so-called water stress. The urgency of the problem encouraged Tajikistan to propose the initiative of proclaiming the year 2003 the International Year of Freshwater. We believe that the preparation for that year and the various events planned within its framework, in particular, the Third World Water Forum, to be held in Japan in March 2003, will give Member States a good opportunity to exchange their expertise gained in applying successful patterns of water-resource management and in searching for needed finances and resources. In putting forward the initiative for the International Year of Freshwater, we expected that the major focus of the events to be held in 2003 would be on universal access to freshwater and diminishing the possibility of conflicts related to water shortage. That would make a specific and substantial contribution to achieving the goals of sustainable development. It is impossible to achieve the goals of sustainable development unless the economic component of globalization is given due attention and discrimination in economic relations is eliminated. In an environment where wealthy countries benefit from globalization and continue to get richer, while poor counties get poorer, social tensions increase and cause political extremism, including the most extreme form — namely, terrorism. Counteracting the threat of terror is a long-term endeavour, since it is a phenomenon that is alien to human civilization, and it is multidimensional and deep-rooted. In addition to uniting the will of all its participants, applying military resources and strengthening the international legal framework, the anti-terrorist coalition established following 11 September 2001 must direct its efforts towards elimination of the primary reasons for terrorism, which can be traced to unsettled conflicts and outrageous social and economic inequities. Tajikistan is actively participating in the common effort to ensure a unified international legal framework for combating terrorism. Our country has become a participant in the most universal anti-terrorist conventions. We totally support the activities of the Security Council in this area. We highly appreciate the role of the Counter-Terrorism Committee that was set up in compliance with resolution 1373 (2001), under the leadership of Sir Jeremy Greenstock; this Committee has assumed a central role in the unprecedented effort to establish a global system to counteract international terrorism. Pursuant to the authority conferred on it by the United Nations Charter, the Security Council will continue to play an active role in preventing threats to international peace and security posed by terrorism. It is essential to continue using all kinds of political, economic, financial and humanitarian measures in order to develop a comprehensive approach to the eradication of international terrorism. It is important that the development of fundamental principles to combat terrorism be enhanced at the international legal level. In this connection, we expect the General Assembly shortly to adopt a comprehensive convention on combating international terrorism, as well as to complete negotiating and adopting a comprehensive international convention on combating acts of nuclear terrorism. We believe the time has come to convene a special session of the General Assembly in 2003 to discuss all aspects of combating terrorism and to adopt consolidated decisions. At that time, we could also discuss the progress made over five years on the implementation of the decisions of the twentieth special session dedicated to the illicit production, sale and trafficking of narcotics. In view of the ever- increasing drug threat, we regard the creation of an anti-narcotics coalition of States as an issue of critical importance. The war against the international terrorist underground will not be effective until the international community makes substantial progress in its struggle against drug cartels and narco-barons. A future global system of counteracting terrorist and narcotics threats cannot be created without support from regional and subregional structures and institutions that have been active in this and other areas of international cooperation. An increase in the number of regional organizations and the strengthening of their mechanisms not only reflects an objective need for filling the lacunae in the interaction of neighbouring States, but also meets the urgent need to establish additional channels for conducting a dialogue and exchange of views on the most important issues. The large-scale operations to liberate the Afghan people from the repressive Taliban regime and measures aimed at the restoration of peace and stability in war-ravaged Afghanistan have demonstrated what can be accomplished when the United Nations and regional organizations combine their efforts. Today, our friendly neighbour, Afghanistan, continues to go through a complicated process of achieving national accord and establishing stable institutions of government and a stable political regime. The revival of an independent and peaceful Afghanistan is taking place under difficult conditions. The urgent problem of providing security still exists. The humanitarian situation also remains alarming. However, what has been accomplished by the Government of Hamid Karzai is very impressive. It is important that the United Nations continue to coordinate the international community's common efforts in strengthening the process of restoring and rehabilitating post-war Afghanistan and completing the elimination of hotbeds of international terrorism on its territory and the eradication of religious extremism and the narcotics threat. In this context, the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) faces serious challenges. We believe it is necessary to continue increasing economic and humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan and not stop at what has been accomplished so far. The Government of Tajikistan will continue to contribute to the revival of Afghanistan through building its relations with the friendly Afghan people on the basis of friendship, mutual respect and multifaceted cooperation for the benefit of our two countries and regional security. With respect to reform of the United Nations, and regional issues, it is important to realize that neither global challenges nor most of the urgent regional issues can be dealt with successfully unless the whole United Nations system is strengthened and its core role in international affairs is reinforced. To achieve this in practice, one has to support the Secretary-General in his efforts to reform the United Nations internal system and to recruit personnel with high professional skills. The Member States should assist the Secretary-General in his efforts to expand the capacity of the Secretariat to carry out peacekeeping operations, prevent and resolve conflicts and contribute to post-conflict peace- building. Reform also implies further efforts towards democratization of the United Nations system as a whole, so that the capacities and contributions of small countries, no matter how numerous their problems, can be united with those of large States. We are firmly convinced that reforms should focus on improving the efficiency of special United Nations institutions and on the implementation of development projects. We deem it important that the United Nations reconsider the allocation of its resources, that it stop implementing programmes and projects of low effectiveness, and instead commit the freed funds to new priorities. The year that has passed since the fifty-sixth Assembly session has convincingly demonstrated that the United Nations, with its 190 Member States, is irreplaceable when dealing with international affairs. As never before, the United Nations has proven its ability to meet the most complicated challenges faced by humanity. It is our conviction that, in the twenty- first century, by cooperating with the United Nations, we will be able to create a world without destructive wars, a world that will become secure and prosperous. ﻿It is an honour for me to address the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. Let me first of all, Sir, discharge a pleasant duty on behalf of my delegation and on my own account, and extend to you my warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of the Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. You may rest assured of the support and cooperation of the delegation of Burundi towards the success of your difficult and important mission. I also pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the able manner in which he led the work of the fifty-sixth session. Furthermore, I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the United Nations, and to pay tribute to its Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his support to the people of Burundi. Nor can I fail to thank the Security Council for its tireless efforts to find a lasting solution to the crisis in Burundi. Through its two visits to Burundi, the latest on 5 and 6 May 2002, the Security Council has shown its solidarity with the people of Burundi in its quest for peace. During my address, I shall inform the Assembly of the political situation in Burundi, and of how far we have come in the peace process; I will then go on to speak of the challenges we still face and will conclude my statement with some comments on international issues. Following the establishment of transitional institutions beginning 1 November 2001, the political climate in Burundi has greatly improved. The political forces that had taken part in the Arusha negotiations and signed the Peace Agreement now form the institutions of the Republic: the Government, the National Assembly and the transitional Senate. Advocating dialogue in an armed conflict is not always an easy task, but a sense of responsibility gives us no alternative. We are pleased to recall from this rostrum that we have chosen the option of peace through dialogue and the procrastinations of others involved in no way shake our conviction. Since we are on the right path, we request the Secretary-General, the Security Council, the African Union and the countries of our subregion to maintain their support for our quest for peace by assisting the mediation activities led by Nelson Mandela, assisted by Presidents El Hadj Omar Bongo and Benjamin Mkapa and Vice-President Jacob Zuma in order to persuade the protagonists to sign a ceasefire agreement without further delay. Indeed, certain provisions of the Arusha Agreement are not being applied precisely because of the ongoing violence. That is why the negotiation and signing of a ceasefire is a crucial stage in hastening and ensuring the success of the many reforms to be undertaken. The task ahead is enormous, but it can be accomplished. The smooth functioning of institutions is a guarantee of success, while daily experience demonstrates the serious commitment of the political partners and is the basis of our optimism. While it is true that there are reasons for hope, it is equally true that the challenges to the peace process are genuine and could compromise our path to peace if they are not satisfactorily met in the short term. The violence which the rebels continue to force on the Burundian people is a major challenge not only to us, but to the United Nations, whose primary mission is to maintain peace throughout the world. We take this solemn opportunity to reiterate our request to the entire international community to compel the Burundian rebels to renounce violence. If diplomacy does not succeed, all other means must be used in order to prevent this rebellion from taking hostage a peace process being led today by a Government formed on the basis of negotiations and which now enjoys international legitimacy. Peace will come to the Great Lakes region when every country there is living in peace. To that end, the effort must be both individual and collective. That is why my country is prepared to continue making its contribution to creating a better climate with all neighbouring countries. The second major challenge is the reconstruction effort. After nine years of crisis, the Burundian economy has been sorely tried. The population has become further impoverished, all economic parameters have been destabilized, and our external indebtedness prevents us from resorting, as we have done in the past, to the international financial marketplace. Here again, 7 we ask our traditional partners to give substantial support to our peace efforts. Promises have been made that we hope will be kept in the near future. Indeed, the repatriation of refugees, the resettlement of displaced persons and the rebuilding of damaged infrastructure will require substantial financial resources. As members of the human community, Burundians are also following the concerns of the world, which, sadly, are many and to which we are constantly seeking solutions. To cite but a few, Burundi welcomes the creation of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS and, like other countries that have been deeply affected by the pandemic, has requested that access to affordable medicine be improved until such time as researchers are able to develop a vaccine against this scourge, which threatens all humankind, especially in Africa. In the same vein, my delegation supports the idea of creating a world fund to fight poverty and also welcomes the proposal to establish a world fund for the environment. Even closer to home, our peoples await the concrete results of the recent World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, at which the community of nations reaffirmed the need to work together towards equitable and viable development for current and future generations. We also welcome the establishment of the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States. This testifies to the unequivocal commitment of the United Nations to enhancing and focusing efforts on behalf of the most vulnerable groups of countries. On the African continent, the New Partnership for Africa's Development is a major source of hope and, as such, deserves the support of the international financial institutions and of the community of donors. Along with the poverty that is affecting millions of human beings, another fearful danger is that of terrorism. A year after the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 in New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania, the world remains in a state of shock and is seeking ways to stem the scourge of international terrorism. To that end, Burundi is committed to implementing the provisions of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), which provides the blueprint for a collective fight against terrorism. The great challenges of poverty, environmental degradation, international terrorism, armed conflict and incurable disease require all nations, rich and poor, to recognize international solidarity as the necessary means of survival for us all. The United Nations is therefore called on to meet this challenge, especially by carrying out the necessary reform of its organs the Security Council, the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council in order to make them more complementary and effective in the interest of all.  ﻿It is a great honour for me, as the new President of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, to appear before the Assembly for the first time and to join in the deliberations of this fifty-seventh session. On behalf of the citizens of Sao Tome and Principe, I should like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of this fifty-seven session and request you to accept my warmest greetings and those of my people. May I also extend our congratulations to Timor-Leste, soon to be a Member of the Organization, and to Switzerland, which has just become a Member. We hope that East Timor's becoming a full member of the international community will guarantee that its brotherly people will have the right to live free of the hegemonic appetite of some of their neighbours. Few people in the world have ever heard of my country Sao Tome and Principe. Few people, even in this Hall, could find Sao Tome and Principe on a map. We are a small island-nation in the Gulf of Guinea, off the coast of West Africa. We are poor. We are remote. Despite our isolation, my people face the same issues that confront every country in the world today: first, how to protect innocent people from acts of terror, violence and mass destruction; secondly, how to eliminate the grinding poverty that still afflicts and cripples half the world's population and affects people in every country on Earth; and, thirdly, how to save our environment and protect the world's natural resources from degradation and ultimate destruction. As much as any people on the face of this planet, we deplore terrorism. We condemn those who kill civilians and target women and children, and we say to them, `You are wrong to take the lives of the innocent, whatever the reason, whatever the cause.' That is what my people in Sao Tome and Principe believe. And so it is that last 11 September my tiny nation, with its population of only 140,000 people, only a very small fraction of the population of the City of New York, was horrified by the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. We send our condolences to those in all the many countries who lost friends and family there. We join in condemning those who carried out these terrible acts. We call for their capture and incapacitation. That is what we feel. We turn to the United Nations for leadership. We look to the people in this great Assembly Hall to speak and to act for civilization, for freedom and for justice. An American politician, Hubert Humphrey, said it best: `The heroes of the world community are not those who withdraw when difficulties ensue, not those who can envision neither the prospect of success nor the consequence of failure, but those who stand the heat of battle, the fight for world peace through the United Nations'. I commend the President of the United States for coming to New York to consult and confer with those who represent the community of nations. This act is consistent with the finest and most admirable American tradition. If I can use Thomas Jefferson's words in the Declaration of Independence of the United States, I will say that President Bush's decision to address the United Nations on the subject of Iraq shows a `decent respect for the opinions of mankind'. On behalf of the people of Sao Tome and Principe, I declare our unconditional support for the effort to protect innocent people from acts of terrorism and to defend our populations from weapons of mass destruction. The United Nations must lead the way. The nations of the world must act together as one. It is a moral duty. Sao Tome and Principe offers what resources we have to assist in this noble effort. But war and terrorism and violence are not the only threats to the lives of our people. More insidious, more pervasive and more deadly than even war itself is the poverty that kills many millions of men, women and children needlessly every year. Poverty is silent, but it is insatiable. It is unrelenting. I come from one of the poorest countries in the world. We are grateful to all those who have come to us and have helped us since our independence on 12 July 1975. I take this opportunity to thank all of you. But we cannot, and will not, continue as we are today, without clean water, without health care, without electricity, without jobs, without schools and without even a primitive infrastructure or the capacity to build one. Sao Tome and Principe cannot be left behind. We do not want our neighbourhood in the global village to be a ghetto slum. We want to be part of the information age. We want to receive, to learn how to use and to master the technology that brings enlightenment, affluence and opportunity. Many years ago, another brilliant son of this country, the United States of America, Abraham Lincoln, said `A house divided against itself cannot stand. This Government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free'. The same can be said today about the rich nations and the poor nations of our world. A house divided against itself our house, this planet Earth cannot endure half rich and half poor. We must do better. Sao Tome and Principe now stands at a crossroads of development. We are strategically situated in the most important petroleum area in the world today: the deep water off the western coast of Africa in the Gulf of Guinea. With exploration success would come enormous wealth and potential power to my country. Sao Tome and Principe is therefore facing a moment of opportunity that African nations rarely encounter, or have historically squandered. 20 Just 100 years ago, my people lived in slavery. We picked cocoa off trees for the enrichment of distant European landowners, while we lived in chains, without decent housing, education or even basic human dignity. But we have come far in a very short time. My people are brave. We are strong and we are united. Sao Tome and Principe led the way in Africa in September 1990 in transiting from one-party rule to a multi-party system. My country is now a robust democracy, which enjoys some of the strongest stability in Africa. I am a product of my country's free and fair elections, having been elected just over one year ago, the second freely elected President since our independence in 1975. I promised my people that Sao Tome and Principe would be a model for oil transparency and sustainable economic development based on democracy, human rights, the rule of law and a diversified free-market economy. We invite you to share with us in achieving our goals. I would now like to draw the attention of the General Assembly to the following situation. We are today congratulating two countries on their entry as full members of the United Nations. But the task of achieving universalism in the United Nations has, unfortunately, still not been completed. I take this opportunity to pay special tribute to another country, with a population of more than 20 million inhabitants, which has achieved admirable economic and social progress through democracy, but which the international community continues to fail to recognize as an independent and sovereign nation. I am referring to the Republic of China on Taiwan. Sao Tome and Principe hopes, and urges, the Organization of United Nations to resolve this case soon as a matter of justice and to declare and accept Taiwan as an independent and sovereign nation. Having said that, I turn again to the United Nations to say that the final challenge is perhaps the most difficult challenge facing the Organization, namely, to save the Earth itself. I appeal to those who fuel the factories of globalization and who drive the engines of progress and economic development. You are the ones who endanger the planet with your pollution. You are the ones who cut down forests, who burn the fossil fuel, who poison the oceans, who destroy the atmosphere and who warm the planet. You are the ones who can lead the world to develop cleaner technologies, more efficient uses of natural resources and effective ways to restore our land, air and sea. There is no time left. The people of Sao Tome and Principe live on two small islands in the Atlantic Ocean. If sea levels rise from global warming, my beautiful island home will disappear beneath the waves. We know better than most people that if we spoil our homeland we have nowhere else to go. We must live with the waste that we make, and we cannot quickly grow back the trees that we cut. If we cut down the trees that shade and protect our food the banana trees, the cocoa trees we will starve. If we put poison in the water and chemicals in the earth, we will die. Whatever we do to bring prosperity to our land, we must do it in a way that respects the water and air and flora and fauna that make up our islands' environment. We must find a way to make progress that supports and sustains life rather than destroying it. The planet Earth is like Sao Tome and Principe in that respect: it is nothing more than an island in the universe. We must take care. We must do better. ﻿At the outset, I should like, on behalf of all the members of the Chadian delegation that I have the honour to lead, and on my own behalf, to warmly congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency of the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly. In discharging that heavy responsibility, he can count on my delegation's full availability and support throughout this session, all the more so since the international community has honoured my country by electing it to one of the prestigious posts of Vice- President of the Assembly. I take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the Members of the Organization for the trust placed in my country, Chad. Members may be assured that we shall do our utmost to deserve that trust. My thanks and congratulations go also to Mr. Kavan's predecessor and to his team for the work accomplished during the fifty-sixth session. I should also like to pay particular and well- deserved tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose commitment and ceaseless efforts to achieve sustainable peace and development in the world are welcome and should be recognized. Lastly, I express my sincere and warm congratulations to the Swiss Confederation on its admission to the Organization. Chad, which enjoys close relations of friendship and cooperation with that country, welcomes its decision to join the great United Nations family. A country devoted to democratic and peaceful values, Switzerland will undoubtedly contribute to enriching our debates on all issues. The current session is taking place one year after the terrible attacks perpetrated against the United States of America on 11 September 2001, which plunged American families and those of other nations into mourning. The Government and the people of Chad once again join the rest of the international community in paying tribute to the memory of the thousands of innocent victims of that act of blind savagery, which nothing can justify. Unfortunately, those sad events have brutally alerted us to the numerous challenges that we absolutely must face if we wish to one day bring about a just and equitable international society that enables each of its members to develop fully. In addition, those acts of despair can be checked only if their roots — which are nourished by unequal international relations broadening daily the gap between rich and poor — are eradicated. My country firmly condemns that form of political expression, from whatever side it may come, and is ready to associate itself with any initiative of the international community to establish a new world order based on democracy and sustainable development. Today, the United Nations is called on more than ever to help to establish a fairer and more prosperous international society. We note with satisfaction the Organization's frequent efforts to ultimately eradicate the scourges of disease and malnutrition — in short, those of underdevelopment. In that regard, numerous world meetings at the level of heads of State or Government have been organized under the auspices of the United Nations or of specialized agencies with a view to implementing the decisions and recommendations of the Millennium Summit. But the point is not to have Summits; above all, we must match words with deeds. The Republic of Chad, like all other developing States, aspires to a better life and well-being for its population. His Excellency Mr. Idriss Deby rightly stated, in his inaugural address on 8 August 2001, that his mandate would have the double aims of peace and economic progress. In order to do that, Chad is relying on the early exploitation of its mineral and agricultural wealth. We take this opportunity to inform the Assembly and to reassure the international community, including the friends of Chad, that the work to carry out its oil project is proceeding under good conditions. According to forecasts, the first barrels of oil may be brought to market starting in July 2003. However, despite the prospects offered to Chad by the oil age, the Government is aware of the weakness of the national economic structures, of the debt burden and of the imbalances that make the population's living conditions precarious. Once again, we call for our bilateral and multilateral partners to increase their assistance and simply to cancel external debt, as the African Union has always recommended. Long captive to its domestic problems, the Republic of Chad, now more than ever before, intends to shoulder its responsibilities within the international community, particularly on the level of the African 13 continent. Therefore, the Government is committed to helping to make the African Union — whose birth was celebrated on 9 July 2002 at Durban, South Africa — a genuine instrument of the continent's political and economic integration. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is part of that major objective. In the framework of North-South and South- South cooperation, NEPAD deserves the support of Africa's development partners. But again, Chad is among those who think that Africa's salvation lies in the hands of Africans themselves. To that goal, they must take courageous political decisions and transcend their differences so that the African Union can become a reality, because the disruptions and crises of all kinds suffered by that great and rich continent are sources of serious anxiety. However, the latest news coming from various African subregions allow us to believe that an end to conflicts is in sight on the continent. Since the beginning of this year, several meetings of national reconciliation have taken place and several peace agreements have been signed, including in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in Angola, in Burundi, in Sudan, in Sierra Leone and in Somalia. That offers real hope for African populations. Chad intends to fully commit itself to ensure that that hope is realized. Along with other members of the international community, the Chadian Government is concerned at the situation that continues to prevail in the Middle East. Unfortunately, that intolerable situation results from non-compliance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and of the General Assembly. In the light of its obligation to be fair to all Members of the Organization, the Council should ban any policy of double standards and should ensure respect for its decisions, in particular resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002). Genuine peace in the Middle East demands that. Likewise, the Government of the Republic of Chad cannot remain silent on another situation of injustice that continues to preoccupy the Organization: its exclusion of the Republic of China on Taiwan. That issue comes back to us every year like a boomerang because we handled it badly more than 30 years ago. For us, as a result, it is a matter of conscience that challenges all of us to find a solution. We have stated on a number of occasions that it is not a question of redressing one injustice by committing another;0 it is simply a question of giving back to the Republic of China on Taiwan, a democratic and responsible sovereign State, and to its people the place they should have on the international stage. This is why, once again, the Government of Chad calls for the admission of The Republic of China on Taiwan to the Organization. At its creation in 1945 the United Nations had 51 Members. Now, almost 200 countries are full Members of the Organization. This growth means that it is time for an in-depth reform of its structures to allow for greater participation by all Member States and increased accountability for the taking of international decisions that have a definite impact on the life of all our citizens. This is because globalization should not be regarded only as economic, but also as political. Thus, Chad feels that the restructuring of the United Nations is essential and should focus on the following two points: first, strengthening the role of the General Assembly in order to make it more democratic and more active in decision-making; and secondly, an increase in the number of the members of the Security Council in order to achieve better representation for all the geographic areas of the world. Chad therefore endorses that position, which is also that of the African Union. Before I conclude my statement I wish to call to mind a happy event which took place in my country just one year ago. In July 2001 a significant scientific discovery was made in the Djourab desert in the north of Chad, by researchers headed by a French-Chadian paleontological mission. This was the discovery of the fossilized skull of a hominid known as Sahelanthropus tchadensis, dating back approximately 7 million years. Sahelanthropus tchadensis, which means man of the Chadian Sahel, has been nicknamed Toumai which means hope of life in the local language. Study of the skull has indicated that this is a new human species, a new earliest member of humankind. This discovery has had a significant impact in the scientific community and in world public opinion, because it challenges the many theories concerning the origin of humankind. Toumai is the common ancestor of us all, and Chad is now regarded as the cradle of humankind. In order to mark this important discovery, the Chadian Government envisions the establishment of a department of paleontology to foster research and 14 education in this scientific discipline, as well as the construction of a museum to develop scientific tourism in Chad. My country will be relying on the support of the international community to carry out these projects in the sphere of scientific research and paleontology in particular. All present are warmly invited to visit Chad, now known as the cradle of humankind, whose tourist assets have thus been enhanced by this new scientific discovery.  ﻿The creation on 24 October 1945 of the family of nations brought the peoples of the world values, principles and goals to cherish and to realize. The founders of the United Nations brought us hope; they brought us new belief in the future of humanity after two world wars. They opened the eyes of the world community to such key issues as human dignity, equality, tolerance, peace, national and international security, social and economic progress, and respect for human rights. How do we deal with those precious gifts? Do we, the Member countries — large and small; powerful and less powerful; developed, less developed and developing — make the optimal use of those tools to shoulder the necessary responsibility and solidarity with one another and with our peoples, in particular the most vulnerable ones among us: our children, older persons, persons with disabilities, persons with HIV/AIDS, women and men, and older and younger persons who are suffering from extreme poverty, hunger, deadly diseases, drought and war crimes? In my statement today on behalf of the Government and the people of the Republic of Suriname, in which those fundamental issues should be addressed, I would first like to express feelings of peace and love to the entire United Nations family: peace and love, which was brought to us in the peace messages of the President and of the Secretary-General and in the beautiful songs of the United Nations Choir during the Peace Bell Ceremony, held this morning here at Headquarters, on the occasion of the International Day of Peace; peace and love to you, Mr. President, because of your unanimous election to that high Office, because of your readiness to serve and because of your country's important contribution to the lofty goals of the Organization; peace and love to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his energetic guidance and leadership during the remarkable fifty- sixth session of the General Assembly; and peace and love to the dedicated and inspiring Secretary-General and to the entire Secretariat — those who work actively every day everywhere in the United Nations system and who, despite their difficult roles, which include security personnel, interpreters, conference officers, field workers, information and communication technology personnel and personnel in the various agencies and programmes, always stand ready to serve humanity with a kind smile. Peace and love were enshrined in the recent 11 September message of President Runaldo Ronald Venetiaan of the Republic of Suriname to President George W. Bush of the United States of America: “On this day, our thoughts and feelings are with the families and friends of the victims of the cruel terrorist attack on 11 September 2001, as well as with the Government and people of the United States of America. The people of Suriname pray that the whole of the American nation will prosper in peace, together with all of the global family”. We express peace, love and special words of welcome to the newly admitted Swiss Confederation, which, as of 10 September 2002, has joined our family as the 190th Member State, after having served the United Nations so well as an observer State, especially with respect to the promotion of human rights and the protection of humanitarian law. We also express our special feelings of love, peace and welcome to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, which will be admitted as the 191st Member State of the United Nations on 27 September 2002 after a long process of preparation, on the basis of Security Council resolution 1272 (1999), with the strong participation of its own well-motivated people and with the guidance and support of the international community. We wish the Governments and peoples of both countries well in their future endeavours. Last year, designated as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations, came at a time in today's world when dialogue proved to be most essential. Suriname is a fervent advocate of dialogue. Therefore, we prefer to choose the path of dialogue to solve our disputes. I am pleased to say that the Surinamese peoples, who originated in all parts of the world — in Africa, Asia, the Americas and Europe — live in peace and harmony with one another. We also cherish our peaceful and friendly relations with neighbouring countries and with many other countries 27 around the globe. To promote unity in our society, the ideals of peace and respect for one another's cultures are incorporated into our national educational programmes and are taught from an early age. The human rights based approach to development, including the notion that human rights education is a key to development, should be embraced. Therefore, the national education plan of Suriname will also deal with human rights education. Awareness should be raised that poverty among our peoples is a serious violation of their human rights: every human being has the right to an adequate standard of living with regard to health, medical care and well-being — the right to education, to food, to housing and to social services in general. Suriname has ratified all major human rights instruments. We welcomed the special attention of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women during the consideration of, among other things, Suriname's initial periodic report, submitted last June, on the importance of human rights as a way to transform society and as a birthright. My delegation emphasizes that no equality can be achieved unless human rights become a way of life. Therefore, on behalf of my Government, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to the former High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs. Mary Robinson, for the excellent manner in which she carried out her duties. At the same time, we wish to welcome the newly appointed High Commissioner for Human Rights, who is from our region: Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello of Brazil. We extend our best wishes to him, and are convinced that he will guide us in promoting and protecting the effective enjoyment by everyone of all civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights, including the right to development, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 48/141. If we indeed want the United Nations to maintain international peace and security, we need to abide by and implement the various resolutions and decisions it has adopted towards this goal. The commitments, declarations and action plans drafted at the various United Nations follow-up conferences held this year will have to be implemented. The difference in positions of various countries poses a threat to international peace and security, especially with regard to the consequences of trade liberalization for developing countries. Achieving the Millennium Development Goals must be our first priority, and this achievement should not be jeopardized by an increase in defence expenditures. We welcome Iraq's recently announced decision to allow the return of United Nations weapon inspectors into the country; we also applaud the recently agreed peace plan that aims to achieve, by 2005, a final settlement towards a peaceful solution to the conflicts in the Middle East. If we want to guarantee international peace and security, we have to live up to the challenge of creating a world fit for children; a world without child-soldiers; a society for all ages, where people are no longer starving, dying of famine, drought or living in extreme poverty; where there is respect for human rights, the rule of law and international law; where there is fair trade, sustainable development, good governance; and where each individual has the right to development, the ultimate goal being to improve the quality of life of every human being — children, women, men, older persons and persons with disabilities. According to the 2002 Human Development Report, many countries are poorer than they were 10, 20, and in some cases, even 30 years ago; genuine attention should be given to these most vulnerable people. Developing countries can by no means meet the needs of their people on the basis of their own financial resources; Governments of the developed world, international financial institutions and donor countries should increase their official development assistance. Poverty eradication should be a high priority in our countries. Our poverty eradication programme is designed in such a way that it emphasizes not only labour demanding growth, but also, and especially, domestic capital demanding growth. Our Government has confidence in a programme focusing on technology and the education of our people to elevate our population to higher material and spiritual levels. Education is an important vehicle leading to the awareness of health problems, such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, human rights and democracy issues, criminality, including cross-boundary crime, and drug trafficking. Suriname has a long tradition and 28 history regarding the involvement of civil society and other non-State actors in the development of our country and attaches great importance to real partnership between Government, civil society and non-governmental organizations in the fields of social affairs, education and health, among others. During our participation last Monday in the high- level General Assembly session on the New Partnership for Africa's Development, we expressed the solidarity of the Government and People of Suriname with our brothers and sisters on the African continent and our strong support for Africa's determination to emerge from poverty, hunger and famine, and such destructive deadly diseases as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, in order to build a strong and lasting culture of peace and democracy based on Africa's precious natural and human resources and its cultural wealth. Information and communication technologies (ICT) must be considered as essential for the sustainable development of peoples and societies; the rights-based approach to development should include the right to information and communication technologies. ICT has been recognized as an effective instrument in the fields of economic growth, knowledge, education at all levels, poverty eradication, people's empowerment, capacity-building, decision- making and the promotion of sustainable development. The United Nations Secretary-General should be commended for the timely initiative within the United Nations system to create the United Nations Information and Communication Technologies Task Force, which plays a vital role in the preparatory process for the World Summit on the Information Society in December 2003 in Geneva and 2005 in Tunis. Various ICT programmes and projects for children, students, older persons and others, are being carried out in Suriname by the Government, the university and civil society. My country will continue to support the work of the United Nations. We are committed to implementing the plans of action of the important follow-up United Nations Conferences held this year — namely, the Special Session on Children, the International Conference on Financing for Development, the World Assembly on Ageing, the World Food Summit and the World Summit on Sustainable Development. The challenges that we face with regard to economic, social and environmental development are to cut poverty in half within the next 10 years. My Government is committed to working on the economic growth and poverty eradication of our own people. We are also faced with the challenge of improving environmentally-friendly and healthy products and consumer goods; protecting and managing the natural resource base of Suriname; improving the sustainable development of small island developing States; and strengthening the management of sustainable development at the national, regional and international levels. Because Suriname is situated in the Caribbean region, the region with the second highest rate of HIV/AIDS-infected people in the world, this issue is of utmost importance. Besides HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis pose grave threats not only to health in general, but also to the labour sector and to the social and economic development of Suriname. We are, therefore, now taking the necessary steps to submit a request for funding through the United Nations Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We are faced with a vast amount of issues that need to be solved, and agreements and programmes that need to be implemented in order to improve the lives of our peoples. The United Nations still proves to be the best place to collectively discuss the problems of the world and to look for lasting solutions. It is up to us to live up to our commitments as Members of the United Nations and to create better living conditions for our people. We can only hope that this would eventually lead to stability in and between our countries, and ultimately lead to peace and security, as envisioned by the founders of this great Organization. Secretary-General Annan and Assembly President Kavan, at this morning's Peace Bell ceremony, exhorted the international community to heed the message of International Peace Day and let it resound far and wide, spreading dignity, justice, understanding, solidarity and prosperity. Let there be peace on earth. Let peace begin with all of us who are assembled in this beautiful, historical General Assembly Hall. May the Almighty be with all of us.   ﻿It is my pleasing duty to once again participate in this auspicious forum on behalf of Mr. Charles Ghankay Taylor, President of the Republic of Liberia, and to contribute to the debate of this General Assembly. 17 At the outset, I wish to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan for his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session and to assure him of the full cooperation and support of the Liberian delegation. I also seize this opportunity to commend the outgoing President, Mr. Han Seung-Soo of the Republic of Korea, for the efficient and capable manner in which he conducted the affairs of the fifty- sixth session of the General Assembly. It is my pleasing duty to congratulate the gallant people of East Timor on their relentless struggle for self-determination, leading to their independence this year. It is also a privilege for me and my Government to welcome and congratulate Switzerland on its admission to membership of the United Nations. A year ago, the world was plunged into deep sadness as a result of gruesome acts of terrorism committed right here in New York City and elsewhere in the United States of America. In the wake of these barbaric acts, we all entered a solemn collective pledge to battle terrorism wherever it may exist. Consequently, there was not only a strong condemnation of terrorism, but also firm support for the campaign against organized terrorist networks. We wish to reaffirm our support for Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and the United Nations conventions and protocols aimed at combating terrorism. The Government of Liberia has forwarded those conventions not yet ratified to the Liberian National Legislature for ratification. The consolidated and coordinated response necessitated by terrorist attacks requires a firm commitment to ensuring the passage of comprehensive legislations to meet the new dimensions of terrorism, the adoption of strict financial control regulations to curtail funding for terrorism, the strengthening of customs and immigration controls, the strict enforcement of laws regulating arms traffic, and the liberalization of the extradition conditions for persons suspected of engaging in terrorism. In the global war against terrorism, we must further act to combat the root causes of terrorism. This means that there is a need to take concrete steps to combat deprivation, alienation, rejection, misery and poverty. Recent developments in the Middle East involving Israel and the Palestinians are a cause for grave concern, requiring urgent and concrete actions to halt violence in that region. Both the Israelis and Palestinians have justified claims, which must be resolved in a manner other than the use of excessive violence. Violence cannot produce peace, neither can it be an arbiter of claims. My Government is in full support of constructive efforts that will help both sides to return to political dialogue in their search for a negotiated settlement. We therefore urge all stakeholders and facilitators of the Middle East peace process to undertake meaningful actions that will reduce the current level of antagonism and violence in the region and to avoid any further aggravation of the situation in the Middle East. As we say in Liberia, “Let us not use fire to put out a fire.” At the formation of the United Nations 57 years ago, most of Africa was still under colonial rule and therefore Africa's participation in the creation of a global mechanism for collective security was limited to Liberia, Ethiopia, Egypt and apartheid South Africa. Today, Africa has formed itself into the African Union and represents over 25 per cent of the membership of the United Nations. Despite this fact, and considering that most of the conflicts under consideration by the Security Council are African conflicts, the continent's participation in the deliberations of the Security Council is grossly limited to non-permanent representation with no right of veto. In essence, Africa has no real voice in our world body even as it deliberates on issues affecting our very existence as a continent. This situation must change. Africa's contribution to collective security cannot be limited to participation in a debate that has no binding effect on decisions taken by the post-war Powers. Building upon the Organization of African Unity's Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, the African Union has established a Peace and Security Council to promote peace, security and stability in Africa, anticipate and prevent conflict, develop a common defence policy, and promote and implement peace-building and post- conflict reconstruction activities. That organ will provide the capacity for the management of African conflicts by Africans and will thus form the initial basis for Africa's contribution to collective peace and security. 18 Many African States, including Liberia, have provided peacekeepers to United Nations-mandated peacekeeping missions around the world. Africa has come of age to contribute to international peace and security, not only because Africa has the capacity to do so, but also, more importantly, because Africa is a principal stakeholder in international peace and security. Liberia therefore calls for the permanent representation of Africa on the Security Council with the right of veto. This is the resolve of all Africans. The Government of Liberia considers the present sanctions regime imposed on Liberia through Security Council resolutions 1343 (2001) and 1408 (2002) as punitive and unjust. Not only are the sanctions unjust, but they have also created a grave humanitarian crisis throughout the country. Although the Government of Liberia has always regarded as unjust, unjustified and punitive the imposition of United Nations sanctions on the country, it has nevertheless consistently cooperated with the Security Council, thus upholding that organ's integrity. The Government of Liberia is in full compliance with the demands contained in paragraph 2(a) to (d) of Security Council resolution 1343 (2001). These demands constitute the only conditions for the lifting of the sanctions on Liberia, as provided for in paragraph 6 of resolution 1408 (2002). Essentially, these demands called for the cessation of support for the Revolutionary United Front (RUF), intended to lead to progress in the peace process in Sierra Leone. In order to ensure compliance with these demands, the resolution imposed several punitive sanctions on Liberia. No one can dispute the fact that peace has been restored to Sierra Leone and that the RUF no longer exists. The defunct RUF has been demobilized and disarmed by the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL). The RUF was transformed into a political party, the Revolutionary United Front Party (RUFP), which contested the elections in Sierra Leone on 14 April 2002. All Sierra Leoneans, including the RUFP, have accepted the results of the elections without any challenge to the democratically elected Government of Sierra Leone. The Government of Liberia was represented at the inauguration of the President of Sierra Leone and fully recognizes the Government of President Alhaji Ahmad Tejan Kabbah as the legitimate and democratically elected Government of Sierra Leone. Liberia is host to many Sierra Leonean refugees. The policy of the Government of Liberia has been to encourage the voluntary repatriation of all Sierra Leonean refugees, in keeping with relevant international conventions. To this end, the Government of Liberia has facilitated the repatriation of Sierra Leonean refugees by the Government of Sierra Leone and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), a process that is ongoing. Since February of this year, 12,500 Sierra Leonean refugees have been repatriated to Sierra Leone. Another 5,000 have registered for repatriation with the embassy of Sierra Leone in Monrovia and UNHCR. At present, there are 25,000 Sierra Leonean refugees still residing in Liberia under the care of UNHCR. How is it conceivable that Liberia can today continue to be punished by the Security Council on allegations of supporting a non-existent RUF in a non- existent war in Sierra Leone, while the Liberian Government provides protection for thousands of Sierra Leonean refugees in Liberia? It is conceivable because of the failure to differentiate between demands and punitive sanctions. The condition for the lifting of the sanctions, according to the resolution, is compliance with the demands. However, the sanctions have not been lifted because the focus is not on the condition precedent for its lifting, but on the sanctions themselves, as though punitive sanctions were ends in themselves. It is illogical to suggest that the condition required for lifting the sanctions is the sanctions themselves. To assert that would suggest that one would be rewarded with a privilege if one refrained from exercising that privilege. It is therefore confusing to speak in terms of alleged violations of the sanctions as though they were indicators of compliance with the demands, when, in fact, it is compliance with the specific demands of the Security Council resolution that constitutes the only condition for lifting the sanctions. In its last report on Liberia, the United Nations Panel of Experts rightfully raised the moral dilemma regarding the continuance of sanctions against Liberia when the war in Sierra Leone was over. However, that moral dilemma was not a dilemma for those subjecting Liberia to unjust punitive sanctions, as morality had no place in their political consideration. 19 If regional peace and security are the objectives of the victimization of Liberia, how, then, do we explain the conspiracy of silence surrounding the prevailing war in Liberia waged by externally supported armed non-State actors? Can one reasonably expect peace to be consolidated in Sierra Leone or maintained in the Mano River Union region when aggression against Liberia is left unchecked? What accounts for that conspiracy? Is it due to double standards or to malice? The current arms embargo imposed on Liberia in the midst of a war waged against Liberia by externally supported armed non-State actors has caused the displacement of a third of the population, resulting in a humanitarian crisis in the country. The arms embargo has encouraged the war against Liberia because of the perceived weakness of the Government to effectively defend its territory. Furthermore, it should be noted that the countries providing arms and ammunition to the non-State actors operating in Liberia are in violation of the arms embargo, and the Security Council cannot ignore their actions. The arms embargo imposed on Liberia is a flagrant violation of Liberia's inherent right under Article 51 of the Charter to defend itself against armed attacks. That violation has not only led to impairment of the Government's capacity to defend the nation; it has also contributed to the resulting humanitarian crisis that is the cause of immense human suffering in Liberia. The combined impact of the sanctions and the ongoing war in Liberia is telling on every aspect of life in the country. The sanctions have exacerbated the problem of a fragile economy and have imposed suffering on an already vulnerable population. According to statistics of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the unemployment rate in Liberia is estimated at 85 per cent, while 80 per cent of the population lives below the poverty line. Donor assistance to United Nations specialized agencies and non-governmental organizations operating in Liberia has substantially declined since the imposition of sanctions. The education and health sectors have suffered serious disruptions since the imposition of sanctions. Over 60 per cent of the children between the ages of 5 and 14 years were in school in 2000, compared with about 45 per cent today. Infant mortality and life expectancy rates have significantly deteriorated. Infant mortality, which was 117 per 1,000 births in the year 2000, is now estimated at over 130, while life expectancy has declined from 54 to 47. Of the 16 functioning hospitals and 25 health centres that were operating in the country in 2000, only 11 hospitals and 15 health centres are still operating. At present, there are 59,370 persons per doctor. Prior to the sanctions, over 100,000 Liberians were engaged in artisanal mining of diamonds, either as operators or labourers. Taking into consideration the average size of the extended family, which is 7, that brings the number of Liberians directly or indirectly impacted by the Security Council ban on Liberian diamonds to more than 700,000. A student at the University of Liberia wrote the following in an assignment paper: “The United Nations euphemism ‘selective sanctions' is a laughable oxymoron, if not a myth. The attempt to strangulate and destroy the Liberian Government can in no way provide a foolproof assurance that will guarantee the immunity of ordinary Liberians from such strangulation ... To regard the sanctions as selective, one should, firstly, bury his conscience to the plight of Liberians in their everyday living. Sanctions are not selective when Liberians are denied income and employment opportunities, or when primeval darkness cannot become obsolete in the face of modernity ... It is time, high time, that the United Nations abandon its destruction of the Liberian nation State.” I join my compatriot in calling on the Security Council to bring an end to the suffering and victimization of Liberians by acting urgently to lift all sanctions imposed on our vulnerable country. Despite the current state of emergency and critical conditions created as a result of United Nations sanctions and the war waged by externally supported armed non-State actors, the Government of Liberia remains committed to democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights, national reconciliation and national unity. To that end, a national reconciliation conference has been organized by a steering committee comprised of persons representing a cross section of Liberian society. The first national plenary of the conference was launched on 24 August 2002. The conference was divided into five thematic subgroups: 20 finance and management, culture and history, good governance, education and communication, and national security. Current diplomatic initiatives undertaken to bring about peace in Liberia are proceeding at two levels, that of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and that of Mano River Union, which are parallel processes. At the ECOWAS level, the objective of the process is the facilitation of a peace process, especially with regard to bringing an end to the activities of armed non-State actors, leading to an end to the ongoing war inside Liberia. At the Mano River Union level, the objective of the process is to build confidence among member States of the Mano River Union, the development of political will to ensure good neighbourliness and the consequent implementation of all decisions and protocols of the Mano River Union, including those decisions taken subsequent to the Moroccan initiative. His Majesty the King of Morocco, who has maintained consultations with the United Nations and major Powers, currently facilitates that process. Those parallel initiatives complement each other and are not mutually exclusive. Settlement of the internal conflict requires the cooperation of neighbouring States. The destabilization of Liberia by armed non-State actors and the resultant humanitarian crisis have been and continue to be sustained by external support, and no internal settlement can be sustained in the absence of the cooperation of the neighbouring States of the Mano River Union and ECOWAS. It is therefore important to encourage the Moroccan and ECOWAS initiatives as complementary efforts and not to perceive those efforts as working at cross purposes. The restoration of peace and security to Liberia can only be facilitated by ending the activities of armed non-State actors, who sustain their activities through external support. That would, therefore, require, as an essential beginning, the cutting off of all external support to armed non-State actors. The achievement of that objective will require that the Mano River Union member States adhere to the Non-Aggression and Security Cooperation Treaty of the Mano River Union, implement the 15th protocol to the Declaration of the Mano River Union and implement all Mano River Union decisions pursuant to the provisions of the 15th protocol and those arising from the Moroccan initiative. Fundamental among those decisions is the decision of the Joint Security Committee, taken in Conakry, Republic of Guinea, on 10 September 2001, regarding the endemic problems of dissidents. That decision called for the apprehension and repatriation to their country of origin of all individuals, armed groups and other paramilitary forces involved in the destabilization of member States. The ongoing war waged by externally supported armed non-State actors against the democratically elected Government of Liberia is a result of the total disregard and violation of the agreements and decisions of the Mano River Union. That war must be brought to an end. The decision of the Mano River Union on the endemic problems of dissidents was antecedent to the end of the war in Sierra Leone and intended to put an end to the destabilization of the region by armed non- State actors and to create a mechanism for sustainable peace and security within the Mano River Union region. It is, therefore, imperative that no ambiguous signals are sent to the armed non-State actors who are currently destabilizing Liberia; otherwise, the efforts of the Mano River Union, the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone and the international community as a whole to consolidate peace and security would be futile, and would thus undermine the security of the entire region. It is, therefore, imperative that all armed non-State actors be fully disarmed as an integral part of the efforts of the international community to restore peace to the Mano River Union region. The consistent denial of the United Nations to admit the Republic of China on Taiwan into this world body is a violation of Article 4 of the Charter, which specifically states that “Membership in the United Nations is open to all other peace-loving States which accept the obligations contained in the present Charter and, in the judgement of the Organization, are able and willing to carry out these obligations.” The 23 million peace-loving people of the Republic of China deserve to be represented in the United Nations. They have demonstrated their capacity and willingness fully to live up to the obligations of States Members of the United Nations, as they have demonstrated in other world bodies. It is therefore the conviction of the Liberian Government that the Republic of China should be allowed representation and participation in this world body. The Liberian Government continues to hold the view that it is the 21 Chinese people themselves, under the principles of democracy and of respect for human rights, who will one day resolve the question of Chinese reunification. Liberia encourages the continuation of the cross-straits dialogue in the interest of the greater good of the Chinese people. Some scholars are of the view that the calculated objective of some sanctions is the achievement of a threshold of domestic suffering that will cause the people to rise up and overthrow their Government. If this is true, then it is also true that some sanctions are not intended to achieve compliance with United Nations demands, but to precipitate regime change through rebellion against internal conditions of suffering caused by sanctions. This may also explain the indifference and insensitivity to the suffering of people living in States under sanctions. In the case of Liberia, the call for a study of the potential impact of sanctions took effect only after the imposition of sanctions, which gave an appearance of some humanitarian concern for the people of Liberia. Nevertheless, after 16 months of the application of punitive sanctions against Liberia, the Security Council is still trying to determine the impact of its sanctions on our people. Will death represent an impact sufficient to bring about some form of moral consternation and restraint? But for every day that a Liberian must face the agony of sanctions, the integrity of the United Nations is undermined and its conscience put to the test. The Liberian people consider their current suffering at the hands of the Security Council a betrayal of the dream and aspiration which inspired their forefathers to join in the formation of the United Nations. With the benefit of hindsight, the Government would have toiled in anguish as it participated in the San Francisco Conference in 1945; not in doubt of the principles we ascribed to, but in fear of the potential to distort those sacred principles. Yet we remain resolute and true to the ideals and principles enshrined in the Charter, and we commit ourselves to working with unrelenting perseverance for the realization of peace, freedom, liberty and justice for all peoples. ﻿Let me first extend my congratulations and a warm welcome to Switzerland, a neighbouring country of Liechtenstein, on its membership in the United Nations. Switzerland has for centuries lived the ideals of the United Nations as a place where peoples of different ethnic backgrounds, languages, cultures and religions have peacefully lived together and have founded a nation based on democratic principles and the rule of law. Now its people have chosen to join the United Nations. We look forward to Switzerland's contribution, its expertise and experience in the challenging work of this Organization. Together with the admission of East Timor a few days from now, this brings the United Nations even closer to being what it was intended to be, a truly universal family of nations. In the past year, the United Nations has again convened a number of meetings at the highest level, with the best intentions and the most ambitious agendas. Those included the special session on children, the International Conference on Financing for Development and the World Summit on Sustainable Development. All these meetings have resulted in important outcomes, but they have sometimes fallen short of the expectations of those most directly affected. Bigger is not always better. We believe that the era of such world conferences and summits has come to a close. We have established good standards and must now focus on their implementation. The Millennium Development Goals must be given primary importance in this respect. A few years ago, we had hoped to be entering an era of the primacy of the rule of law. Small States in particular rely on the rule of law, both at the national and at the international levels, where this Organization plays a particular role. Today, we are all challenged more than ever to uphold the principle of the rule of law. The events of 11 September made us realize that no person and no place is immune to the threat of international terrorism. The international community, and especially this Organization, responded vigorously. For weeks immediately after the attacks, countries were determined to join forces to oppose and eliminate the threat to all of us. Today provides a good opportunity not only to commemorate those who have died at the hands of international terrorists, but also to reassess our common response and responsibility as the international community. In looking back, we realize today that the sense of working together we all felt was short-lived and that it has not extended to all areas. After the terrorist attacks there was recognition that international terrorism can only be fought successfully if all States and nations work together. This raised hopes for an era of genuine multilateralism. However, those hopes vanished quickly and were replaced by the realization that unilateralism and confrontation were again dominant. One example of such confrontation was the debates on the International Criminal Court, which extended even to the Security Council. Holding these debates implied, ironically, that the International Criminal Court jeopardized peacekeeping operations of the United Nations. As a State party to the Rome Statute, we welcomed the entry into force of the Statute on 1 July as a true landmark in the history of international justice. We remain fully committed to preserving the integrity of the Court's Statute. We found it therefore disquieting that the Council dealt with the International Criminal Court in a manner suggesting that the Court posed a threat to international peace and security. The Security Council, above all, is called upon to uphold the rule of law. The state of affairs worldwide makes it abundantly clear that credible and effective 28 action by the Council is needed now more than ever. Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) illustrates how determined action by the Council can contribute to fighting real threats to international peace and security. My Government has attached the highest priority to the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee established pursuant to that resolution. We submitted on time two comprehensive reports on our national implementation thereof. One year after the inception of the Committee's work, we have to take stock of its achievements and of the challenges ahead. There are obviously different stages of implementation worldwide and diverging capacities of States, especially in the area of combating the financing of terrorism. Thus, it is imperative to introduce minimal standards to which all States need to adhere. Such an effort to set and implement benchmarks will ensure the practical impact and continued political relevance of the Counter-Terrorism Committee. We all must strive to bring our national enforcement and cooperation mechanisms to the highest achievable standards. This, however, must be accompanied by a set of minimum standards which are observed and enforced globally. As stated on previous occasions, Liechtenstein stands ready to make its contribution to developing such standards and to contribute to compliance enhancement by offering our extensive practical expertise. Injustice must not be fought through injustice. The fight against terrorism must therefore go hand in hand with basic standards of the rule of law. Overzealous action must not, as has occurred in some instances, jeopardize the rights of the individual. Non- derogable human rights, as contained in the relevant international treaties, must be safeguarded under all circumstances. States have an obligation to ensure that people who are suspected of having committed acts of terrorism are treated in accordance with the relevant standards. The United Nations, as the primary international law-making body, has a special responsibility in this respect and has to live up to its obligation to be the guardian of the rule of law. When the United Nations is called upon to uphold the rule of law, it must, of course, ensure first and foremost the legality of its own actions in all areas and, in particular, when it comes to armed action and intervention. The Charter of the United Nations provides for the sanctioning of such action by the Security Council. The debates of the past few weeks have made it clear that nothing can replace — as Secretary-General Kofi Annan put it so aptly — the unique international legitimacy provided through a decision of the Council. Legality, and thus political credibility, are ensured through seizing the Council. At the same time, however, the full implementation of all such decisions must be ensured. This must therefore be the way to go for the international community. ﻿Allow me, at the outset, to express my warm congratulations and wishes to His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan for every success on his election to the presidency of the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly. I should also like to express my delegation's gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo for the competent and able manner in which he conducted the work of the fifty-sixth session. I wish to convey to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, the sincere appreciation of His Excellency General Lansana Conté, President of the Republic of Guinea, for his tireless and dedicated efforts on behalf of the community of nations. In addition, I wish to welcome the admission of the Swiss Confederation, a country of great traditions of peace and democracy, to the Organization. My delegation looks forward with great interest to the forthcoming entry of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste to the family of nations. I remain convinced that the accession of those two countries will make a high-quality contribution to the endeavours of the international community and will strengthen the Organization's universality. Twelve months have passed since the tragic events of 11 September 2001. The global security climate has suffered profound changes, casting new light on the dangers of international terrorism and its interdependence with other forms of crime. Terrorism, one need hardly stress again, constitutes a menace to international peace and security. Faced with the global dimensions of that scourge, my country associates itself fully with the efforts of the international community with a view to providing an appropriate response. In that regard, we hope for the prompt adoption of a general convention against terrorism and for the effective implementation of other existing international legal instruments. Within the framework of the dialogue among civilizations, an appeal should be addressed to all countries for the organization of an extensive campaign of education and consciousness- raising in order to promote tolerance, respect and acceptance of others. The current session is being held in a difficult international context dominated by numerous conflicts that compromise legitimate aspirations to peace and progress. In this climate of violence, nevertheless, a gleam of hope can be glimpsed on the African continent. We welcome the important progress made towards the restoration of peace in Angola and in the Great Lakes region, especially in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Burundi. In the Horn of Africa, peace between Eritrea and Ethiopia is gradually returning, but the Somalia crisis remains more 17 worrisome than ever. In Western Sahara, my country supports the remarkable work accomplished by the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General, Mr. James Baker. We encourage him to persist in his efforts with a view to finding an acceptable and definitive solution to that crisis. In the Middle East, the conflict situation persists. The cycle of acute violence over the past two years has widened further the gap between the parties, reinforcing the wall of misunderstanding. The Government of Guinea is convinced that the application of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) will allow Palestinians and Israelis to coexist peacefully within secure and internationally recognized borders. We appeal to the two parties to comply unconditionally with Council resolutions 1397 (2002) and 1402 (2002). We reaffirm the support and the solidarity of Guinea to the brotherly people of Palestine, to the Palestinian Authority and to its head, President Yasser Arafat, who has fought courageously for the creation of an independent and sovereign Palestinian State for more than 50 years. The situation in Iraq is a source of vital concern to the people and the Government of Guinea. In order to prevent further suffering by the Iraqi population and to preserve peace in the region as well as international security and stability, my country invites the parties to show greater restraint. Iraq's acceptance of the unconditional return of the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission is an encouraging sign for the peaceful settlement of the crisis. My delegation appeals earnestly to Iraq to respect and comply with the relevant Council resolutions. Turning to the Korean Peninsula, Guinea supports the efforts for peaceful reunification of the two Koreas, in conformity with the declaration signed by the heads of State of the two countries in June 2001. My Government reaffirms its attachment to the principle of one China. I now turn to the situation in our subregion, West Africa, an area that has long been shaken by internal crises but that is now moving towards a climate of peace and stability. Sierra Leone has committed itself to the path of peace and reconciliation, thanks to the mediation of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and to the support of the United Nations. That success was also made possible by the United Kingdom's important role. In Liberia, the situation is still precarious. My delegation remains convinced that the adoption and effective implementation of a programme of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of armed groups, based on the successful conclusion of the inter- Liberian dialogue begun in Abuja, will contribute to the restoration of peace and stability in the subregion. Guinea, a member of the Mano River Union, renews its commitment to continuing to work for peace. Because of that commitment, my country took an active part, in the Rabat Summit, on 27 February 2002 and in the process of implementing its recommendations. The political dialogue at the Summit should be pursued with a view to strengthening confidence between the parties. In that regard, it is important to point out that the Joint Security Committee of the Mano River Union, which met in Freetown on 10 September 2002, decided to simultaneously reopen the borders among the three countries of the Union and to organize a caravan for peace next October that will tour those countries. My delegation takes this opportunity to again express its profound gratitude to His Majesty King Mohammed VI of Morocco for his mediation. The political dialogue at the Summit and the respect for measures imposed by Security Council resolution 1343 (2001) represent two complementary tracks of managing the situation in the Mano River Basin. The international community, in particular the Council, should ensure follow-up, while bearing in mind the interdependence of the situations in Liberia and Sierra Leone. The Government of Guinea hopes that the establishment of the Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for West Africa will contribute to meeting the challenges faced by the States of the subregion. We also welcome the creation of a Security Council Working Group on Conflict Prevention and Resolution in Africa. Clearly, that initiative is likely to contribute to our common reflection on such problems. Disarmament issues, particularly those related to light weapons and to anti-personnel mines, remain a source of concern. As members are aware, Guinea belongs to a subregion whose population continues to suffer the adverse effects of the proliferation and the illicit circulation of light weapons, which feed conflicts, lead to the resurgence of crime and encourage the phenomenon of child soldiers. 18 We welcome the renewal of the ECOWAS Moratorium aimed at eradicating that phenomenon. We call for the implementation of all measures for the dismantling of supply networks of small arms and light weapons. We support the pursuit of all the activities under way to alleviate the suffering and loss of life caused by anti-personnel mines. The consequences of armed conflicts and natural disasters primarily affect vulnerable civilian populations, which constitute the majority of refugees and displaced persons. For more than a decade, Guinea has been hard hit by the negative socio-economic, security and environmental impact of wars in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau. Let me take this opportunity to reiterate our appeal for the holding of a special consultation of the United Nations on Guinea. In this context, my country appreciates the renewed commitment made by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) at the workshop held on 18 July 2002 by the Security Council on the countries of the Mano River Union. My delegation welcomes the creation of the Regional Bureau for humanitarian affairs in West Africa, the extension of the rapid response system for natural disasters and the setting up of the integrated regional information network. Prevention and resolution of conflicts calls for the reduction of poverty and eradication of disease. The question of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis remains a source of concern, especially for developing countries, particularly those in Africa. The adoption by the General Assembly of the Millennium Declaration, the declaration of commitment on HIV/AIDS and the 2001-2010 Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa, are significant steps forward. But the question of mobilizing resources remains central to this effort. The primary responsibility for measures to be taken to implement these initiatives falls to African leaders. However, they need to be supported at the community, national, regional and international levels. My delegation welcomes the Secretary-General's initiative that led to the creation of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and other transmittable diseases. One of the commitments made by heads of State and Government at the historic Millennium Summit was to reduce, if not eliminate, poverty. But much of the planet's population is still living in absolute poverty. This situation is aggravated by the effects of globalization that, in the absence of just and equitable rules, increases the capacity of the strong to promote their interests, while limiting that of the weak. The advent of the African Union illustrates the will of African peoples to achieve the objectives of economic integration and consolidate the foundations of peace, stability and security in Africa. In that framework the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) remains an effective instrument for enhancing the African economies and bringing about their integration into the world economy. My delegation appeals to the various partners to provide effective support in order to make that common vision a reality. We hope that the decisions of the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, the commitments of the G-8 in Kananaskis and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development held at Johannesburg will have a positive impact on Africa. My delegation welcomes the improvement of the procedures and methods of work aimed at better operation of the General Assembly. We support the reform of the Security Council, to adapt it to the requirements of democracy and transparency, especially by increasing the number of its permanent and non-permanent members on the basis of a more equitable geographical distribution. Two years after the historic Millennium Declaration, the gap between North and South continues to widen. I wish to express our sincere hope for the advent of a world of greater justice and solidarity in the framework of true partnership for peace and development. Accordingly, we remain convinced that the United Nations, reformed, revitalized, adapted to new changes, remains a viable framework to face the challenges before us, and thus to ensure for future generations the conditions necessary for their fulfilment.  ﻿It is a great honour and privilege for me, as the first democratically elected President of Yugoslavia in nearly 60 years, to address this gathering of world leaders. Against the solemn background of yesterday's commemoration and the challenges that confront us, I would like to share with the General Assembly my views on developments in South-East Europe. Before I begin my remarks, allow me to express my deep satisfaction at the election of Mr. Jan Kavan to preside over the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. His leadership and experience make him uniquely qualified to guide the extremely important work of this body. I also wish to extend my congratulations to Switzerland on joining the United Nations, and to Timor-Leste on its forthcoming accession to membership. Nearly two years have elapsed since democracy returned to Yugoslavia ─ two years of concerted efforts by my country to alleviate the consequences of a decade of civil war, build democratic institutions, establish the rule of law, carry out market reforms and fulfil its obligations to the international community. After a 10-year delay, Yugoslavia has joined the large group of other European countries in transition that are building their future on the common values of respect for human rights, democracy, free-market economies and a commitment to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. What distinguishes my country from most other Central and Eastern European States is that during that same decade Yugoslavia experienced the largest armed conflict in Europe since the Second World War. The dissolution of the former Yugoslavia, the civil wars waged on its soil and the subsequent NATO bombing have left continuing effects on the well-being of the citizens of my country and on that of the citizens of most of South-East Europe. Yugoslavia knows only too well that peace in the region, attained at great sacrifice, must never be threatened again. The efforts we have made to that end over the past two years, and the good political relations we have established with our neighbours, have strengthened my hope that an inter-State armed conflict in our region is unlikely to happen either today or in the foreseeable future. There are still threats to lasting peace in the world and in the region alike. Those threats come from ideological, religious, ethnic and political extremism, which fuel hatred and sow fear among our peoples. Organized crime is often linked with that extremism, and is the lifeblood of terrorism. Even though terrorism and organized crime in South-East Europe are rather specific in their characteristics, there are many links to leading terrorist and criminal groups throughout the world. I am here to reaffirm my country's firm commitment to the struggle against this threat. I am also confident that the United Nations is the right place for the coordination of international efforts to rid the world of this evil. This struggle will not be easy but, together, the community of democratic nations can prevail through cooperation and a unified response to potential threats, regardless of where they may emanate from. In addition to the security and military measures that we undertake, we must also be equally committed to using other methods to eradicate the conditions that breed terrorists. We must attack global poverty and injustice throughout the world with the same commitment and resolution with which we confront terrorism. We must reach out to the generation of young impoverished children, who are targets for terrorist recruitment and manipulation, by providing them with hope through education and economic opportunity. 6 The stabilization of our region requires continuous action not only by the States of the region but also by the entire international community. My country has finally undertaken a constitutional transformation, with facilitation by the European Union, in order to define the relations between its two member republics, Serbia and Montenegro. This will make our integration with the rest of Europe easier and quicker. Our success requires the success of our neighbours. When it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslavia is a fervent advocate of the full implementation of the Dayton Accords. In fact, we are a guarantor of those Accords. As in all other cases, our goal is to open borders, not to change them. We want to promote the flow of people and goods, thus restoring the broken ties that bound us to each other. I am pleased to see that this policy has produced significant results, although I have to say that slow economic recovery hinders our efforts, especially in the area of refugee returns. Yugoslavia, in cooperation with Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, will continue to do its part in establishing the trust and cooperation between our three States that will benefit our citizens. I am proud that Yugoslavia will host the next summit of these States, which is scheduled to be held in Belgrade this autumn. I am saddened that the situation in Kosovo is far less encouraging. Some progress has been made since Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) was adopted, and since the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) arrived in the province. With the enormous help and understanding of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, a bright spot was reached through the agreement with Special Representative Hans Haekkerup on cooperation between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and UNMIK in November 2001. Unfortunately, Kosovo remains a factor of political instability and a centre for organized criminal networks that transit our region and stretch from Central Asia to South America. There is little doubt that these networks cooperate with extremist and terrorist groups in our region and beyond. Another problem with Kosovo is the desperate plight of the close to 250,000 Serbs, Montenegrins and other non-Albanians who desire to return to their homes but who remain displaced, mostly in central Serbia. Unlike the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, less that one per cent of Kosovo's population of internally displaced persons has returned. To make matters worse, the fate of more than 5,000 abducted and missing persons is yet to be uncovered. During the last two years, Kosovo's instability twice spilled over into neighbouring areas, first into the Presevo valley in southern Serbia, and then into the western part of Macedonia. Regardless of the fact that Serbs and others participate in Kosovo's provisional institutions, this has not led to an improvement in the security situation or to the establishment of complete freedom of movement. Without immediate and noticeable improvement in those two areas, a more massive return of internally displaced persons is unlikely. All of that, along with the reluctance of Kosovo Albanian political leaders to enter into dialogue with us, makes is impossible to begin a serious discussion on the final status of Kosovo. Yugoslavia will continue to do its part in establishing the conditions for a democratic and peaceful solution to this open issue. To that end, I am pleased that we will upgrade to the ambassadorial level diplomatic relations with our neighbour, the Republic of Albania. I am confident that the cooperation between our two countries will continue and that jointly we will be in a better position to find solutions to outstanding problems. Let me stress that we are fully aware of our international commitments and that we will meet them, not because this is demanded of us but because we desire to establish a democratic society based on the rule of law. I believe that, at the conceptual level, the final point I am going to make is the most important because it determines everything else. The world must understand that change has truly taken place in Yugoslavia and that no authoritarian regime has any chance there anymore. Sometimes there is mistrust towards my country; this is almost unbelievable. There is still prejudice against us, as if nothing has changed, whereas actually a great deal has changed and substantially. The political situation is still evolving. There are still disagreements among the various players. But this is perfectly normal for a transitional period. Nothing should serve as a pretext for continuing a policy of conditionality towards us, or for attempts to interfere in our internal affairs. We continue often to see how such an approach is usually counter-productive not to mention the time it wastes.  ﻿The tragic events of 11 September 2001 awakened the international community to the gravity of a new menace to world peace and security. The lighting of the eternal flame during the commemorative service in Battery Park was mirrored by the outpouring of sympathy from around the globe and the world became one again, reaching out to those who lost their loved ones on that fateful day. The global community responded promptly and decisively to the scourge of terrorism. Over the past year, international cooperation has been strengthened in our relentless campaign against terrorism. The Security Council, in particular, has played a commendable role in this process through its Counter- Terrorism Committee. The Republic of Korea has been an active member of the international coalition against terrorism. We are now working with other countries to contribute to the rehabilitation of Afghanistan. As we conduct our resolute fight against terrorism, we should also consider that deprivation, lack of good governance and marginalization from the process of globalization can serve as a breeding ground for fanatics who can go so far as to take their own lives just to harm others. The international community should, therefore, take a holistic approach, while bearing in mind at all times that terrorism cannot be justified by any cause or under any circumstances whatsoever. The events of 11 September have also brought home to the world the appalling dangers of weapons of mass destruction falling into the wrong hands. Moreover, the prevailing international reality underscores the urgent need to make progress in disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It is essential that we achieve universality of non- proliferation regimes including the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Biological Weapons Convention while ensuring full compliance by all 18 States parties to such regimes. We also hope that a total ban on nuclear testing and fissile material production will be achieved through the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and an expeditious conclusion of a fissile material cut-off treaty. In that regard, I would like to underline the Republic of Korea's full commitment to strengthening multilateral collaboration to promote the cause of disarmament and non-proliferation. Since its inception, the United Nations has played a key role in securing peace and stability in the troubled corners of the world. Indeed, the work of the United Nations in conflict prevention, peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace-building has expanded in recent years. East Timor is the latest success for which the United Nations deserves praise. As a Member State committed to the coalition of the willing, the Republic of Korea has actively taken part in the United Nations efforts in East Timor and other parts of the world. Moreover, our overall financial contribution to United Nations peacekeeping operations has grown approximately tenfold over the past three years. The Republic of Korea intends to strengthen its involvement in these crucial United Nations activities. The Korean peninsula is still one of the world's most volatile areas. Nevertheless, President Kim Dae- jung's unwavering pursuit of his engagement policy is fundamentally reshaping inter-Korean relations. That engagement policy is, in essence, a strategy for peace through engagement, designed to cope with the multiple challenges inherent in inter-Korean relations on the road to eventual unification. As such, it aims at fostering inter-Korean reconciliation, promoting cooperation and exchanges, reducing tension and building durable peace on the peninsula. The highlight of the engagement policy was the holding of the historic summit between South Korea and North Korea in June 2000. The summit set in motion an inter-Korean peace process. After ups and downs along the way, the peace process is finally back on track and moving forward again. Inter-Korean meetings at various levels have resumed, as have exchanges in all areas. In fact, on this very day, at Mount Kumgang, the fifth round of reunions between separated family members is taking place. Next week, South Korea and North Korea will hold the long- anticipated ground-breaking ceremonies marking the start of construction work for the reconnecting of railways and roads that have remained severed for five decades. Since those projects literally involve a breakthrough in the heavily fortified border and require a certain level of military-to-military cooperation, they will hold not only great practical benefit but also tremendous symbolic significance. As we look ahead to the completion of the trans-Korean railway, this clearly promises to have far-reaching interregional implications for accomplishing the vision of an iron silk road, a rail link joining Asia and Europe. The overall progress report to date amply demonstrates that the engagement policy works. The Korean people on both sides of the peninsula today enjoy a stronger peace than ever, and the risk of war is at an all-time low since the end of the Korean War, in 1950. However, it is not yet time to be complacent, as we have still a long way to go if the peace process is to prove irreversible and fully sustainable. One important challenge to the peace process relates to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We continue to believe that the 1994 Geneva Agreed Framework holds the best hope for removing concerns over nuclear proliferation from the Korean peninsula. However, at the moment, the Agreed Framework has reached a critical juncture. As the light water reactor project progresses, it is now essential that full cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency begin without further delay for the implementation of the safeguards requirements of the Agreed Framework. The path to world peace runs through more equitable economic and social development. In that regard, we attach great importance to the United Nations Agenda for Development and, in particular, to the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration. The International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey in March of this year, was a success in the area of enhancing shared awareness of the primary responsibility of developing countries themselves, as well as in emphasizing the need for more substantial input from developed countries. The Political Declaration and Plan of Implementation adopted at the recent World Summit on Sustainable Development are also of great significance, as they have set out a time- bound plan of action for humanity's quest to preserve the planet for posterity. The unprecedented advances in information and communication technologies are also 19 widening the gap between the front runners and those who lag behind. We hope that the United Nations and other relevant international organizations will become more proactive in bridging the digital divide between developed and developing nations. The last century witnessed the steady advance and triumph of democracy and human rights as universal values around the globe. As it has been so eloquently put, liberty, when it begins to take root, is a plant of rapid growth indeed. The human rights situation in any given country is no longer an exclusively domestic affair. The issue of human rights has become a priority agenda item for the international community. During the last session of the General Assembly, special attention was paid to the human rights of such vulnerable groups as children and the elderly. We sincerely hope that the pledges made at the Second World Assembly on Ageing, as well as at the special session on children, will be translated into concrete action. The Republic of Korea has a firm commitment to international cooperation for the promotion of democracy and human rights. We plan to host the second Ministerial Conference of the Community of Democracies in Seoul in November of this year. We are working with other Convening Group countries to ensure that this proves a momentous occasion in the protection, consolidation and advancement of democracy the world over. We also welcome the renewed commitment of the international community to combat such growing problems of horrific transnational crime as the trafficking in persons. Over the past half century, the United Nations has made outstanding contributions to causes of great importance to humankind. However, the world body cannot possibly meet all expectations. Given the limited means and resources available to it, the United Nations should focus on areas in which it can excel, making the best use of its comprehensive mandate and the universality of its membership. In that regard, the Republic of Korea strongly supports the ongoing reforms that Secretary-General Kofi Annan has been pursuing with a view to achieving a more effective and efficient United Nations. In closing, I would like to say that the United Nations is the embodiment of globalism and the epitome of multilateral cooperation. As such, the international community looks to the United Nations for guidance and effective action in the whole spectrum of areas under its mandate. The Republic of Korea reaffirms its firm commitment to working in concert with other Member States to make the United Nations more relevant and efficient, and thus better able to meet the challenges ahead global challenges indeed.  ﻿I convey my congratulations to Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency of this body. I should also like to express once again to Secretary-General Kofi Annan my highest appreciation and to assure him of my support. It is with satisfaction that Poland welcomes in our midst the newest Member of the United Nations, Switzerland, and looks forward to welcoming soon the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste. Wisława Szymborska, the Polish poet and Nobel Prize winner, wrote the following words dedicated to the victims of 11 September: “They plunged down from heights ablaze ... For them, I can do but two things — depict their flight and leave the last sentence unfinished ...” I believe that every one of us travelling to this brave city shared similar thoughts. All of us must have asked ourselves what is being expected of us, where we are today and what obligations we are to fulfil to ensure that such horror never happens again. No doubt, 11 September was a wake-up call for all of us. It may have not changed the world, but it certainly has fundamentally changed the way we perceive it. History has yet again given us the responsibility to face the challenge and to leave a better and safer world for future generations. But then, after all, is that not what we are really here for? Many of my colleague representatives touched upon that issue in recent days. The messages delivered here just four days ago by Secretary-General Kofi Annan and President George W. Bush are especially significant. In that regard, we also share the opinions expressed by a number of other speakers, in particular by the Prime Minister of Denmark, Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, speaking in his capacity as the President of the European Union. Today the United Nations stands at a crossroads, facing a choice that needs to be made. Either we will find internal strength to stand up to the challenge and prove that the United Nations is more than a mere discussion forum or we will lose credibility forever. Once again, as was the case at the inception of the Organization over half a century ago, we must take the issue of security seriously, especially as terrorism has given it a new dimension. As a founding Member of the United Nations, Poland will continue to support all efforts aimed at preserving the Organization's unique position. We fully agree with what the Secretary-General said, that we can only succeed if we make full use of multilateral 21 institutions. We share the position of President Bush that the United Nations must be effective and successful and that its resolutions must be enforced. We are convinced that the Security Council must find enough strength in the nearest future to set the course for a decision-making process in the United Nations aimed at concrete action. This time, we are left with a very small margin. This is a test that international community has to pass. Failure would undermine both the integrity of the United Nations and the security of the whole world. I think the most appropriate motto for my further reflections on the future of the United Nations is contained in the Secretary-General's millennium report. He wrote that “If the international community were to create a new United Nations tomorrow, its make- up would surely be different from the one we have.” (A/54/2000, para. 352) It would be highly unfortunate if the millennium report, and especially its conclusions relating to the role of the United Nations and the reform of the Organization, were to fade into oblivion. Only the United Nations, given its exceptional legitimacy stemming from the universal character of both its membership and its mandate can — and, indeed, ought to — rise to the challenges posed to the international community. But for that to happen its prerogatives, rules and instruments would have to be geared to the needs of today and the threats of tomorrow. We should consider the elaboration of a document that would be neither a draft revision of the Charter nor a supplement to it. What I would like to suggest is that we make an attempt to acknowledge the new reality and try a new road. I am by no means being original or precedent-setting in calling for this. The Atlantic Charter and the New Atlantic Charter, the 1975 Helsinki Final Act and the 1990 Charter of Paris for a New Europe have all been there before. In other words, adapting an organization's mandate to make it relevant to new needs without actually revising its founding act has already been tested. There is a widespread sense that some provisions of the United Nations Charter having actually become a dead letter. That applies to both the substance of those provisions and to the procedural solutions they offer. Some of the Charter's provisions and organs have completed the tasks assigned to them and are now redundant. But the Organization does need new mechanisms to run peacekeeping operations. It is impossible to comprehend why we still keep in place clauses on “enemy States” while the United Nations has no regulations to properly address the problems related to its humanitarian interventions. There is a general acceptance of the need for clear lines to be drawn to mark new areas of responsibility for a number of important United Nations organs. The values, purposes and principles of the United Nations, enshrined in the Preamble and in Articles 1 and 2 of the Charter, have not lost their relevance. They have stood the test of time. A document that could be considered as a new act for the United Nations at the dawn of the twenty-first century could give fresh impetus to the principles, organs and mechanisms of the United Nations and make them more responsive to the needs and challenges that today dominate the life of the international community. Let me point out four groups of problems that should be tackled, starting with new threats to security. The Charter makes reference to threats traditionally raised by States. The Charter's provisions concerning the Security Council and its composition and instruments, as well as the other Chapters dealing with security, are now insufficient. That fact is borne out by the numerous developments of recent years, including the attack of 11 September and its consequences. Then there is acute poverty, which is evident in many parts of the world; chronic underdevelopment; pandemic disease; lack of education and medical care; and deepening differences in living conditions and developmental standards. All of these are unacceptable politically and morally. Human rights, the rule of law, democracy, good governance and civil society make up the third group of problems that I have been thinking about. The fourth group is made up of themes related to sustainable development. The focus on the protection of the human habitat, which is indispensable to the survival of the human race, and on the common heritage of mankind. Moreover, existing United Nations principles must be expanded, or new ones developed, in order for the Organization to pursue its actions along the following three dimensions, namely, in manifestations 22 of multilateralism in the work of the United Nations while reconciling broad representation and collectivism with effectiveness; in the subsidiarity of the Organization's work to better utilize the means and resources available to Member States, specifically with regard to United Nations regional arrangements; and, finally, in getting non-governmental entities, including private capital, involved in United Nations work in a way that will not detract from the democratic nature of the Organization nor erode its governmental character and efficiency while increasing its resources and effectiveness. I dare say that no country, group of countries or regional agencies meeting the Organization's criteria would be capable of taking up the totality of problems such an undertaking would have to address. Subject to appropriate consultations involving the membership of the Organization and the Secretary-General, we might wish to establish a “group of sages” made up of outstanding personalities. The group would draft an appropriate document that would then be reviewed and approved by Member States. That document should be politically binding in nature, which would make it complementary to the legal grounding contained in the Charter and provide a platform for the United Nations actions over the coming decades. We should think about the future and work on its foundations, but without losing sight of present-day achievements. The enactment of the Statute of the International Criminal Court is one such achievement. It turns a new page in both international relations and international law. It is Poland's desire for the treaty establishing the Court to become one of the most universal documents of its kind. We trust that the existing divergences between respective stands and views can be resolved through dialogue and compromise, according to international law. We have to act so as not to disappoint the hopes and expectations that the international community has placed in the Court. A year ago, the whole world joined together in an unprecedented demonstration of solidarity. Today we are more aware of the source and the character of the threat. We are also more capable of dealing with it. Poland has joined the ongoing anti-terrorist operation. Our soldiers are now deployed in Afghanistan, alongside their colleagues from other countries, and are doing their utmost to strengthen security there and to help raise the country from the rubble and ruin inflicted upon it by two decades of war and internal strife. For us that is natural, but we cannot avoid asking ourselves the question of whether we are any closer today to fulfilling the ideals towards which we set sail half a century ago. We now have another chance to revitalize solidarity and work together for values that are priceless both to us and to generations to come. Let us all create an axis of good that will bring back the proper meaning to the term we are so proud of, the United Nations.  ﻿Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President. All speakers in this debate have reflected on the year that has passed since 11 September 2001. It has been a very dramatic year, and it is time for the international community to draw some conclusions from it. One thing is clear: the United Nations responded quickly and resolutely to the terrorist acts against the United States. The United Nations acted with speed and determination to counter that threat to global security. For me, that is yet further proof that the United Nations is, indeed, indispensable. We all know what the terrorists want: to hurt open societies, to replace cooperation with confrontation and to bring down democracy. But we can never let the terrorists prevail in their ambition. Nor can we tolerate the suppression of political opposition or the persecution of religious or ethnic minorities under the guise of combating terrorism. In fact, it is by ensuring global respect for international law, human rights and social justice that we take away much of the fertile ground of terrorism. 8 The struggle against terrorism proves once again that multilateral action and a global response are the only sustainable means to meet common challenges. Fighting terrorism and building peace require global cooperation. The Secretary-General said last week that when States decide to use force to deal with broader threats to international peace and security, there is no substitute for the unique legitimacy provided by the United Nations. That is true also in the case of Iraq. The defiance of Iraq in the face of the Security Council must come to an end. At the heart of the issue lies the question of weapons of mass destruction. They are weapons that can bring suffering and death to millions of people, including those far away from Iraq. We want to be sure that Iraq fulfils its obligation to halt all programmes for developing such weapons. We also want to make sure that any weapons of mass destruction that may already have been developed are now destroyed. That is the task of the United Nations weapons inspectors. I welcome the announcement that Iraq is willing to let the inspectors return, without conditions. This time Iraq has to cooperate fully with the United Nations. That will also be the right way to go to achieve the suspension of the sanctions. If that does not happen, however, and if Iraq's defiance continues, as the Secretary-General said, the Security Council must face its responsibilities. That could be a very delicate decision for the Council; it would need to weigh the risks of various options. But the credibility of the United Nations requires that Iraq be made to fulfil its obligations. Sustainable development requires global cooperation. Throughout the world, poverty and oppression can be exploited by extremists and can give rise to conflict and war. Global cooperation is needed to prevent that from happening. International security and regional stability require the building of democracy, respect for human rights, poverty eradication and sustainable development. Globalization makes it clear that social responsibility is required not only of Governments, but also of companies and individuals — in short, of all of us. Ecological sustainability is the basis for human survival. Development and the environment are interlinked. In Johannesburg, our nations made a commitment to translate into reality the Rio vision — the mutually supportive integration of environmental and development goals. The launch of the Doha development agenda opens the way for an equitable and responsive global trading system. New global partnerships have changed the way we look at patterns of production, consumption and sustainable development, but the goals we have set must be achieved. At Monterrey our common responsibility was confirmed. Strong and efficient institutions are needed at the local, regional and international levels to carry out these commitments. We need coherence and consistency. We need ownership. One of the most serious new threats to security is HIV/AIDS. Efforts to achieve sustainable development will be in vain if we fail in our fight against HIV/AIDS and other diseases that still hold entire populations to ransom. When the fundamental structures of societies are crumbling due to the devastating effects of epidemics, we must recognize that as a threat to global security. The Millennium Declaration is our reference guide. Sweden fully supports the Secretary-General's initiative to launch a strategy for the successful attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. Reaching those goals would in itself be the best way to prevent violent conflict. Behind the immediate symptoms of conflict, we often find deep-rooted structural causes. Even now, however, much more can be achieved if diplomatic, economic and military means are used in a coordinated way. Regional organizations, in cooperation with the United Nations, have an important role to play, and the implementation of the Secretary- General's report (A/55/985) on the prevention of armed conflict is crucial in this respect. Ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict requires global cooperation. There is an urgent need to put an end to the occupation and to the spiral of terrorist acts, violence and confrontation that have caused so much suffering and bloodshed in the Middle East. I deeply regret the two recent terrorist attacks in Israel. I strongly urge both parties not to let the peace process be held hostage by extremists. The future of the region depends on a peaceful, sustainable and just solution being reached, based on international law and the relevant United Nations resolutions. One way to achieve this is presented in the road map recently adopted by the European Union, 9 building on the proposal from the Arab League meeting in Beirut. The road map includes the holding of elections in the Palestinian territories in January 2003, aiming at the establishment of a peaceful and democratic Palestinian State in 2005. The rights of Israel and Palestine to security and statehood cannot be secured by military means. They can be secured only by negotiation. Safeguarding human rights requires global cooperation. Addressing this issue, I wish to begin by paying tribute to Mrs. Mary Robinson, the outgoing United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Through her strong commitment, she has had an impact. She has made a difference, and we are grateful to her. I warmly welcome her successor, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and assure him of our continued cooperation and support. All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and in rights. Still, vast numbers of women, men and children all over the world are deprived of their declared, inherent and universal human rights. Harassment, torture and killings take place daily, including through abhorrent practices such as genital mutilation and stoning. Sometimes the reason for a person's being abused is his or her gender, religion, beliefs, sexual orientation, or the fact that he or she is disabled. We have a duty to act against discrimination. The principles of non-discrimination and diversity are fundamental to a humane and decent society. The sovereignty of States must never be used as a shield behind which violations of human rights take place. The General Assembly has taken the first step to establish an international convention to promote and protect the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities. This is a very welcome development. The Secretary-General's report (A/57/169) on how to eliminate violence against women and girls committed in the name of honour is another significant contribution. Legal, protective and other preventive measures for women and girls at risk should be addressed in a concerted manner. Human rights are often spoken about, but we also need to put power behind the words. The creation of the International Criminal Court is a remarkable achievement in the progressive development of international law. Its fundamental purpose is to eliminate impunity for crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes. We all need to carefully safeguard the integrity of the Rome Statute so that its object and purpose will not be undermined. The rights of every individual must be respected, and every individual, irrespective of nationality or position in society, must be held responsible for his or her actions. Disarmament of weapons of mass destruction requires global cooperation. International, as well as national, security depends on strong multilateral frameworks. Our task is to implement and reinforce the important international conventions banning or regulating weapons of mass destruction. A verification regime is necessary to strengthen the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention. Failure to reach concrete progress at the Review Conference in November will have serious consequences. The Chemical Weapons Convention provides for the destruction of a whole category of weapons of mass destruction. That is true disarmament, and it should be implemented in a full and timely manner. The Convention will be reviewed in April of next year, for the first time in its young history. Implementing the agreements made at the Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT) review conferences is of fundamental importance. That is particularly true for the unequivocal undertaking by the nuclear-weapon States to accomplish the total elimination of their nuclear arsenals, and 12 other steps towards accomplishing that goal. As part of the New Agenda Coalition, Sweden will continue to contribute to this process. The disarmament process should also encompass non-strategic nuclear weapons, as confirmed at the last NPT Review Conference. It is vital that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty enter into force. I call upon all States to adhere to that Treaty. The Conference on Disarmament must start substantive work when it resumes its session early next year. It is unacceptable that a few countries continue to block progress. Sweden, Algeria, Belgium, Chile and Colombia recently presented a proposal for a programme of work that takes into consideration the interests of all parties. I urge China and the United States to actively work for a solution. The challenges ahead of us are neither fewer than last year nor smaller in magnitude. To face them, we need a modern and more efficient United Nations. A modern United Nations requires a Security Council that reflects the realities of today's international relations. We need to intensify efforts to achieve comprehensive reform of the 10 Security Council. That issue has been discussed for many years, with little success. In the end, it is a question of the credibility and legitimacy of the Organization. Sweden favours enlargement of the Security Council to make room for increased representation of Member States, not least developing States. We would like to see such a reform have the broadest possible support. If this entailed, as a first step, an enlargement limited to non-permanent members, while not excluding new permanent members at a later stage, Sweden would support such a solution. An immediate increase would better reflect the realities of today's international community and the growing number of Member States. Let me finish by greeting Switzerland, one of the host countries of the United Nations and warmly welcoming it as a full Member of the United Nations. Shortly, the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, a country where this Organization has been deeply and positively involved, will also become a new member of the United Nations family. I see significance in this. I see proof that joint and integrated efforts by the international community can produce remarkable results. It fills me with hope that the United Nations has, in fact, entered this millennium with vigour and determination. I am convinced that the United Nations is on the right track. Through joint efforts by all of us, the United Nations will continue to be a beacon of hope for humanity in the twenty-first century. ﻿The fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly is being held one year after the terrible terrorist attack of 11 September 2001. The delegation of the Central African Republic still intimately feels the strong emotion caused by that attack against liberty and democracy. The President of the Republic, the head of State, His Excellency Ange-Félix Patassé, leading the delegation of the Central African Republic to the commemoration, wanted to reiterate his friendly sympathy towards the American Government and people, and to reassert the firm determination of his country to do everything that is necessary in order to contribute effectively to the legitimate international crusade against all forms of terrorism. Our work is starting within a particular context in the history of international relations, because never has humanity been so conscious of the need to confirm its cohesion in order to ensure a world of concord, solidarity and peace. Before expanding on those facts, Mr. President, I would like to express to Mr. Jan Kavan and the members of the Bureau our warm congratulations on his election to the presidency of this session. His rich experience, as a great statesman and diplomat, will ensure the success of our work. That work will benefit from the full cooperation of the delegation of the Central African Republic. I take this opportunity also to express our admiration for his eminent predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the skill and competence with which he carried out his responsibilities. The determination with which the Secretary- General of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, is working, under all circumstances, to make the principles and ideals of the United Nations prevail, once more elicits our admiration. The President of the Republic, the people and the Government of the Central African Republic, want hereby to assure you of their support and reiterate their deep gratitude for all the objective reports on the situation in the Central African Republic. Moreover, the entry of the Swiss Confederation to the United Nations, and soon the entry of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, are evidence of the resolute march of our Organization towards universality. The Central African Republic wishes to welcome Switzerland and hopes to cooperate closely 21 with that country within the framework of the United Nations. Two years ago, 189 Member States met in this very hall. They set objectives for development for the Millennium, such as the reduction of extreme poverty, education for all, promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of women, reduction of child mortality, improvement of maternal health, fight against HIV/AIDS and other diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis, preservation of a sustainable environment and the establishment of a world partnership for development. All States unanimously pledged, through multilateral cooperation, to implement what is called the Millennium Declaration in order to achieve those objectives within 15 years. The findings we made at the Millennium Summit on the state of the world at that time showed serious shortcomings with regard to our will to fulfil collectively the ideals bequeathed to us by the founding fathers of our Organization. However, through that same will, we undertook, in the Millennium Declaration, to re-examine these issues so as to set a course for the world that corresponds to the aspirations and expectations of the people. However, this is far from what has happened. The revolution in information and communications, the progress of science and technology, the liberalization of trade and the disappearance of State frontiers, while accentuating the phenomenon of globalization, have at the same time led the world into an uncertain and unforeseeable future, to the point where the world today is threatened in the short term with imbalance. States should fully explore all the potential offered by multilateral cooperation within the framework of the United Nations, particularly to put a stop to such threats. These threats, according to our delegation, are essentially of four kinds. The first of these, as you can expect, is the threat that changed the world in one hour. It is called terrorism. This diffuse form of organized trans-border crime that foils armies, however powerful they may be, cannot be tolerated. The reaction of the international community to this new form of aggression must be sustained by adhering to resolutions firmly condemning such actions, and by observing a certain attitude towards the countries and institutions that tolerate their authors. Thus, all together, through solidarity and multilateral cooperation, we shall conquer terrorism, whether committed by a State or a small group. The destruction of the environment, which threatens our future, is also a real threat. We should strive for the sustainable preservation of forests, fauna and biodiversity for the benefit of present and future generations. This subject was eloquently analysed at the Summit on Sustainable Development, held recently in Johannesburg. My delegation has no doubt that international solidarity can here too be of help to safeguard nature. We should like on this occasion to express our gratitude for the American initiative, supported by the international community, for the protection of the Congo basin, of which the Central African Republic is a member. There is one threat, which does not need to be named because it is so obvious, and that is poverty, which — far from declining — has grown over the years. The Declaration talks about reducing poverty, but must we not first stop manufacturing it? Famine, endemic disease, HIV/AIDS and malaria are the daily lot of the two thirds of humankind living on barely $1 a day. How can we fail to be moved by this? That fringe of humanity calls merely for the solidarity that will allow it to live in conditions worthy of our civilization. In the face of the drying up of official development assistance, and with respect to the failure of certain development initiatives, the African countries have felt that we need to develop some sort of partnership with the countries of the North. They have therefore proposed an original plan for the development of Africa through the New Partnership for Africa's Development. The delegation of the Central African Republic fervently calls for the worldwide support of the international community for the implementation of the plan. The many challenges defined at the Millennium Summit in terms of goals to be attained, along with the new plan for African development, will have no chance of success unless they are fostered in an environment of peace, security and stability. However, current conditions do not give much cause for optimism, although we note the occasional positive movement towards the settlement of a few conflicts. Regional crises remain, however, that are no less threatening to peace. Faithful to its doctrine, the Central African Republic believes that the situation in the Middle East 22 can be settled only through the strict implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations on this subject. It deplores the escalation of violence in that region. In the context of its own regional and subregional sphere, the Central African Republic highly appreciates the latest developments in the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in particular the signing of the Pretoria peace agreement with Rwanda and the disengagement agreement signed with Uganda. In conclusion, I am compelled to note that my country, the Central African Republic, is the victim of international ostracism and of indifference that borders on contempt. How else is one to understand the silence of the international community and the international financial institutions in the face of calls for intervention and of Security Council resolutions following on the reports of the Secretary-General since the notorious date of 20 May 2000, and despite the appeals of the Organization of African Unity — now the African Union — the Community of Sahel-Saharan States and the Central African Economic and Monetary Community? And yet, our country has come a very long way with respect to good governance — that fetishistic word! — in politics, economics and finance. As of early 2002, the reduction of corruption is no longer a figment of the imagination, as evinced by the action undertaken in our financial offices. My country's situation requires me to call attention to the words of the Algerian writer Kateb Yassin: “Our blood must become enflamed and we must catch fire in order to move the spectators. May the world open its eyes not to our mortal remains, but to the wounds of the survivors.” The sustainable development we all dream of will become a reality only if, here and now, we inject solidarity into international relations.   ﻿Mexico wishes to welcome two new Member States. Their presence buttresses the universal mission of the United Nations. Our congratulations to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste. This represents a further expression of the right to self-determination and a reflection of its people's resolve for independence. Also, we welcome the decision of the people of the Swiss Confederation to become a full Member of the United Nations. The international community is facing a defining moment. A year after the attack on the United States, in which men and women from more than 80 different countries perished, we have the responsibility to decide together the direction the international system should take in the coming years. Mexico is aware of the magnitude of the challenges that the Organization faces today: the urgency of returning a human focus to globalization, of fighting the poverty that divides the world, of making possible development that respects the environment, of finding formulas for resolving the many conflicts and wars that now affect millions of people, of effectively fighting international terrorism and of guaranteeing respect for the rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being. Responding to those challenges in a responsible and visionary way is more important today than ever before. At the present time, anger or the inevitable difficulties of consensus-building may cloud judgement or give rise to pressure to act precipitously or unilaterally. Mexico is convinced that, at this time, the only legitimate path of action is that based on a 23 multilateral approach that favours agreement and collective action, for the benefit of the international community as a whole as well as of each our nations individually. Therefore, Mexico reaffirms its commitment to the system of international security that gives the Security Council the responsibility of maintaining world peace. In fulfilling that mandate, the Council must base its actions on the principles articulated in the Charter of the United Nations, such as the peaceful settlement of disputes, which has been a fundamental aspiration of the community of nations since the middle of the last century and is one of my country's most cherished ideals. Mexico maintains that the Security Council is the proper body to adopt the measures necessary to achieve a lasting solution to the question of Iraq. Therefore, we value the statement made yesterday by President George Bush, which included a recognition of the importance that debate and collective decision-making will have in the coming days and weeks in determining the path to be taken concerning Iraq. However, we cannot fail to recognize that the scope of action open to us will also involve complex challenges for Council members and for the entire international community. We unequivocally condemn as have most other nations Iraq's continued non-compliance with Council resolutions concerning disarmament and the renunciation of weapons of mass destruction, and we reaffirm the importance of that nation's immediate compliance without preconditions with Council resolutions concerning the return of United Nations inspectors. Nevertheless, we must recognize that non- compliance with United Nations resolutions has occurred at other junctures, at other times and in other places. Today, we believe it is indispensable that the Security Council have the necessary time and support to seek the return of the inspectors, and we therefore support President Jacques Chirac's recent proposal to set a specific time frame for meeting that objective. Moreover, as a responsible and committed Council member, Mexico believes that any decision arising from possible Iraqi non-compliance with the relevant resolutions should be taken based on two indispensable conditions. First, there must be a clearer evaluation of Iraq's true weapons capacity including both technology and delivery systems and of its intention to use them or the capacity of terrorist groups to gain access to them. It could be based on reports issued by United Nations inspection mechanisms, with additional information from individual countries. Secondly, there must be agreement among Council member, as well as other countries directly involved, on the steps that must be taken in the light of the corroboration of those facts or in the event of Iraq's refusal to permit the return of inspectors to its territory. Mexico believes that unilateral military action, taken without prior consultation with the Security Council, would undermine the foundations of the new architecture of international security and could affect the consensus in favour of the battle against international terrorism that followed the attacks perpetrated a year ago against the United States. Mexico comes before the Assembly with the determination to assume an active role in building a new world order. Its willingness for dialogue with other nations is a reflection of the democratic change that has occurred in my country, which has also given Mexico new confidence in its ability to contribute to attaining the objectives of the international community. The determination to play a more active role in the world has led us to incorporate issues and perspectives with global dimensions and impact as key elements of our national interests. Fostering world economic development, promoting and defending human rights and strengthening democracy and sustainable development are examples of our commitment, which transcends borders and sovereignties. The efforts that we undertake to make global ideals reality will also enable us to promote more vigorously our national values. Mexico's redoubled international activity has been reflected over the past months in a series of actions that mark a milestone in the history of our foreign relations. One of our projects with greatest strategic vision is the Puebla-Panama Plan, whose objective is to coordinate the efforts of the public, social and private sectors of Mexico and of the Central American countries in implementing joint development and investment projects. With the same determination, we are promoting a sense of community in North America in order to articulate shared values towards a common vision of regional development that is coherent, wide-ranging and long-term. In that context, we believe that the gradual negotiation of an immigration agreement to bring order and legality to the movement of labour in 24 the region is an urgent priority. From Mexico's standpoint, labour flows between countries must be viewed as an opportunity to redirect the globalization process and to reduce the gap that separates developed nations from less-developed societies. My country has also launched an extensive campaign of cultural promotion abroad. In that way, Mexico is seeking to present to the world the wealth, diversity and vitality of its culture in order to build bridges with other nations and regions. The strengthening of cooperation and cultural ties among our countries must be a priority for us all. That is why we welcome the return of the United States to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The international activism displayed by Mexico for almost two years now has been particularly evident in more intense work within multilateral forums. In carrying out that work, we have often been able to build on the foundations established by previous Administrations. But there is undoubtedly a new spirit and a new purpose in the role that multilateral activism plays in Mexico's international strategy. Our most important task in the multilateral sphere lies here within the United Nations. The Government of Mexico is proud to have received the support of the community of nations for our country's election as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. In that and other forums, we are actively participating in the building of a new international architecture that will govern relations among nations in the coming decades. Mexico's participation in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in which we have participated since 1993 is another eloquent example of our international activism. In October, our country will host the tenth meeting of the leaders of that mechanism, where we shall continue to promote actions that foster greater prosperity for the peoples of the Asia-Pacific region. Mexico has also vigorously promoted the relaunching of international economic negotiations. The International Conference on Financing for Development, held in March at Monterrey, promoted a broad and inclusive alliance among States and international organizations that should make possible a higher level of financing for development, with a clear balance between national responsibilities and international cooperation. Today, the Monterrey Consensus is the basis for redirecting globalization towards growth and anti-poverty objectives, and it is the ideal tool for placing development priorities at the centre of the international agenda. From Mexico's standpoint, the Monterrey Conference forms part of a coherent series of international summits devoted to promoting the agenda of world development. That process began last year in Doha with the Fourth Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organization (WTO); it grew in strength by incorporating the environmental dimension of sustainable development in Johannesburg, and it will continue with the holding of the Fifth Ministerial Meeting of the WTO in Canc˙n, Mexico, next year. The close interrelationship among all the issues related to development was also apparent at the recent Johannesburg Summit, where the positions that President Vicente Fox put forward on behalf of Mexico were widely supported and recognized. Mindful of the new threats to international security, the Mexican Government has also called for the security arrangements of the Americas to be updated. We have offered to host a special conference on security to be convened at the third Summit of the Americas, to take place in Mexico in May 2003. Notwithstanding the importance of all these actions, Mexico's new role at the international level is particularly evident in our promotion of human rights and democracy. My country has stated its conviction that human rights represent absolute and universal values and that, as such, the obligation to uphold them is a duty shared by all Governments and peoples, irrespective of borders and sovereignties. Moreover, we have been consistent in these convictions. That is why, despite the mixed reaction that it has generated in Mexico, given the strong bonds of friendship that Mexican society has always enjoyed with several nations close to us, we have been compelled to express our concern about the human rights situation in those countries. One of the most far-reaching steps we have taken to demonstrate our commitment to the cause of human rights is the harmonization of Mexican legislation with international instruments that protect such rights. We have placed particular emphasis on the protection of such vulnerable groups as women, children, indigenous peoples and the disabled. At the same time, we have abandoned the defensive attitude that prevented us from entering into 25 dialogue with other nations and multilateral organizations dedicated to the protection of human rights. Upon the invitation of the Mexican Government, many representatives of international human rights organizations have visited our country. In the same spirit of openness, the Mexican Government signed a framework agreement with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In the context of efforts of the Mexican Government to strengthen the rule of law, the Mexican Senate is currently considering a draft constitutional amendment that would allow our country to ratify the Rome Statute creating the International Criminal Court. This amendment would involve recognition of the jurisdiction of international courts created by treaties to which Mexico is party and ensure compliance with their resolutions and rulings. The amendment represents a decisive step towards incorporating and ensuring the effectiveness of the standards of international law at the domestic level. Mexico welcomes the recent entry into force of the International Criminal Court, which reflects the resolve of the community of nations to create an international system based on universal standards. We believe, however, that the signing of agreements by those seeking to prevent a given category of persons from being subject to the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court represents a grave step backwards for international law. It threatens the universal scope of the provisions of the Rome Statute, distorts the spirit that led to its creation and undermines the efforts of the community of States to eliminate impunity in the cases of extremely serious crimes. We appeal to the members of the international community to assist in strengthening the authority of the International Criminal Court, which it has spent so much time and effort to build. The defence of human rights necessarily involves the promotion of democratic freedoms. Today, we are seeing increasingly widespread recognition of the fact that representative democracy, with its institutional framework of parties, groups and civil society organizations, as well as the legal framework safeguarding the civil freedoms of association and speech, constitutes the best way of reconciling the legitimate exercise of authority with respect to those freedoms that are essential to human beings. Mexico's active part in drafting the Inter-American Democratic Charter, which was signed by the nations of the American continent in September 2001, is another example of my country's commitment to democratic principles. At the same, we are successfully promoting democratic values in other regions, as demonstrated by our work within the Community of Democracies, whose second conference is scheduled to be held in November. The adherence of the Mexican Government and Mexican society to human rights and democracy has two mutually complementary aspects. On the one hand, it means strengthening democratic practices and institutions and human rights throughout the country, to which end we are restoring the effectiveness of the rule of law; on the other, it compels us to engage in more vigorous activism in international forums so that we may encourage full respect for human rights and democracy throughout the world. This will enable us more firmly to consolidate human rights and democracy in Mexico, so that the democratic change that we have experienced can become irreversible. I am here today to state that my country has returned with renewed energy to the international scene. The Mexican Government has moved from defensive aloofness to constructive dialogue, and from limited international legitimacy to the exercise of diplomacy based on democratic principles and unqualified respect for human rights. The kind of world we wish to create and the steps we are willing to take or to refrain from taking in order to achieve it are questions that we cannot evade at this critical moment of international redefinition. Mexico reaffirms its conviction that action based on principles and agreements must take precedence over the temptations of unilateralism and that universal standards must prevail over short-term interests. Mexico's international activism, in particular its commitment to human rights and democracy, reflects the belief of the Mexican nation in the essential equality of all human beings and in the duties that it entails for all our peoples and Governments.  ﻿May I begin by extending my warm congratulations to the President upon his election. We have every confidence that his stewardship of our proceedings will yield fruitful results. Credit is due also to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his deft handling of our affairs. We also congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the leadership he has shown during the past year across a very broad range of subjects. His inaugural remarks, which have set the tone for our deliberations, are truly praiseworthy. We welcome two new Members this year, Switzerland and, soon, East Timor. We look forward to working closely with them. As we are all painfully aware, this has been a very difficult year. The day of 11 September 2001 witnessed a dastardly act of barbaric terrorism. It also united peace-loving peoples all over the world as never before. As we continue our struggle to prevent the resurgence of such atrocities, we must also address ourselves seriously to the task of rooting out the causes that spawn such behaviour. Any action in that respect should be based on the widest possible international consensus-building through consultations. Bangladesh has been and shall always be a committed and active partner in the coalition against terrorism. We have taken every necessary step to share information and assist in the curbing of terror. We have sought to implement Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), which we ourselves helped to draft and adopt last year as a member of the Council. At the regional level, we are currently examining ways and means of further strengthening the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Regional Convention on Suppression of Terrorism. Terror is totally unconnected to any faith or region. It is a global phenomenon that needs to be tackled by means that are both legitimate and consensual. Those methods include the promotion of democracy and democratic values, respect for human rights and the rule of law, the peaceful resolution of conflicts, peace-building, cooperation towards equitable economic development, the eradication of poverty, gender equality, measures aimed at confidence-building, mutual respect among races and peoples, and harmony — not clashes — between cultures. Those are the main pillars on which we must build a world where hope will reign in place of despair. In the construction of this edifice, the architect must be the United Nations — which, with its Charter principles and purposes — is the greatest institution crafted by humankind. Bangladesh is relentless in the pursuit of those goals, both nationally and internationally. Our problems, as all are aware, are many and varied. Of roughly the size of the state of Wisconsin in the United States, we have a population of 130 million people, which makes us one of the largest nations in the world. Centuries of colonial exploitation left us with inadequate infrastructure and resources, and 5 constrained us in the trap of poverty. Subject to the vagaries of nature, our economy was a gamble in monsoons. Soon after our independence, in 1971, we were perceived as an irredeemable basket case. Since then, we have come a long way. We have dedicated ourselves wholeheartedly to improving the quality of life of our people and to their development. Our policies were grounded in certain values dear to our hearts. We have acted in the firm belief that development is possible only against a matrix of democracy, human rights and the rule of law; that structures and institutions in society must be inclusive, participatory and accountable; and that growth must be pro-poor, pro-environment, pro-equity and pro-women. In our view, tolerance among religions and an appreciation of differing opinions must be imbedded in the social psyche. Our rich intellectual heritage and cultural tradition have been the source of home-grown innovative ideas such as micro-credit and special educational projects that have enabled us to initiate the quiet revolution in our society that has led to a process of huge societal transformation. As a result, we have been able to achieve many successes, which have been widely acclaimed. Despite our being a traditional society, through effective family planning programmes we were able to cut the population growth rate by 50 per cent over the last two decades. In agriculture, we now produce sufficient food grains to feed our entire people. We have invested heavily in human resources development and have provided massive budgetary allocations for primary and secondary education. Schooling up to twelfth grade is free for girl students, and all are awarded stipends. Gender mainstreaming is a major policy thrust. In Bangladesh the empowerment of women receives the highest priority. This is achieved mainly through initiatives such as special provisions for education for girl children, employment of women in the garment industry, and micro-credit schemes that generate self- employment for women. Global recognition of these endeavours was manifest in our recent election to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. Excellent cooperation exists between the Government and civil society. Bangladesh hosts some of the world's largest and most active non- governmental organizations. In our development process, we are ourselves in the driver's seat. A mix of appropriate macro-economic policies and effective utilization of external assistance has vastly reduced our dependence on foreign aid. A document at the International Conference on Financing for Development, held at Monterrey, entitled “Successful development: models for the twenty-first century” says that “The lesson in Bangladesh is that official development assistance, when applied in conjunction with a country's efforts to resolve its own development challenges, can yield dramatic results.” Today what we seek is not compassion, largesse or charity, but greater market access for our manufactured products, fairer trade and more investment. We may still have a long way to go, but we believe we are on the right track. At the international level, we are striving to reinforce mutually beneficial and cooperative relations with all countries. We are seeking, in concert with our development partners, to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. The special efforts made, and the successes achieved, in Monterrey, Johannesburg and at the special session on children have given us cause for hope. It is now important for all of us to seriously get down to implementing the promises made and to achieving the targets set. We are happy that our image abroad is one of a responsible, politically stable, moderate, democratic and constructive member of the international community. We have actively engaged our neighbours in the development of cooperation and understanding. As the Assembly will recall, it was President Ziaur Rahman of Bangladesh who first conceived of the concept of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation. Today, our Prime Minister, Begum Khaleda Zia, is also committed to bringing the Asian cooperation dialogue to fruition. As a demonstration of our commitment to global stability and peace, we have voluntarily given up the nuclear option and joined the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We actively participate in peacekeeping operations, and are currently one of the largest contributors of peacekeepers in the United Nations. I should note, however, that there are certain issues that continue to trouble us. In South Asia, our own region, the volatility of the situation between two nuclear-capable countries is deeply worrisome. 6 Bangladesh encourages all concerned in South Asia to exercise utmost restraint and seek solutions to their differences through dialogue and meaningful engagement. After emerging from the most destructive episode in its history, Afghanistan has yet to be given the wherewithal for recovery and reconstruction. The international community must redouble its efforts to secure peace throughout Afghanistan and accelerate the reconstruction and rebuilding of the country. Unless we do so, the long-term security and stability of our region will remain very uncertain. In the Middle East, the continued denial of the right of the Palestinian people to their own State and to freedom greatly concern us. The continued illegal occupation of Palestinian land, the trampling of human rights and the atrocities perpetrated against the Palestinian people by Israel must end immediately. Serious efforts must be resumed to seek a comprehensive solution to the problem — a solution that addresses the legitimate concerns of the Palestinian people. We welcome the announcement made in Baghdad with regard to the return of the weapons inspectors, and we see this as a significant step towards the fulfilment of obligations under Security Council resolutions. The havoc wrought in Africa by ethnic conflict, disease and famine is very disturbing. The financial turmoil in Latin America is a matter of anxiety for all of us. Commitments to the least developed countries remain largely unfulfilled. The existence of large trade- distorting subsidies that impede development is painfully clear. Restrictions on the movement of factors of production, including manpower, remain a major impediment to progress. Lack of consideration of the emotional and human aspects of people's movement across frontiers remains a great source of pain. The concept of a global fund for poverty alleviation financed through some form of international taxation is also worth considering. These are issues that we, with our limited capacity, can do little to influence — though in our modest way we will do our very best to help. Those who can must do more. For our part, we will play an effective role — as we are indeed doing — in all international forums. In the World Trade Organization we will continue to work with others to implement the development objectives of the Doha Round and to pursue fairer trade. We will cooperate with the international monetary institutions and other agencies, funds and programmes to promote the welfare of our people and those of a comparable milieu. Working within the United Nations, we shall endeavour in every possible way to strengthen its institutions and to support reforms that will render them more participatory, representative and democratic. These are pledges that are enshrined in the vision for the future of the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh under the dynamic leadership of Begum Khaleda Zia. They are commitments that are at the core of the Bangladeshi ethos. ﻿I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election. My Government hails the selection of a leader with such esteemed qualifications, and we are confident you will lead the work of this body in the same distinguished manner as that of your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea. The tragic events just over one year ago in this great city and elsewhere in the United States have transformed the nature of life throughout the world, reaching the farthest corners of the planet. My country, far removed from the devastation of that fateful day in September 2001, reaffirms its full support for the efforts to bring those responsible to justice. More broadly, we extend our unwavering support for all measures necessary to combat terrorism and one day, we hope, to eliminate it. We in the Federated States of Micronesia are doing our part to work towards a more effective global antiterrorism network by putting in place measures to interdict the movement of terrorists and their funds through our region. We look forward to the work planned in that regard for this session of the General Assembly. The meetings of the Pacific Islands Forum this year were dominated by security considerations in the wake of those events. We note with full support the Nasonini Declaration, which enhances existing regional security measures. Likewise, speaking as Chairman of the Standing Committee of the Pacific Islands Conference of Leaders, I am confident in saying that every island leader is personally committed to seeing that our region serves no useful purpose for the dark forces of terrorism. The realm of international security has seen fundamental and beneficial change in the past year. Sadly, the same is not true for most other primary issues on our agenda, notably the elimination of poverty and stemming the tide of environmental degradation. On those issues, as a developing country, we share the concerns and positions of other developing countries. We have all made powerful statements and set lofty goals through the Rio Declaration 10 years ago, the Millennium Declaration two years ago and, most recently, the Monterrey Consensus and the Johannesburg Declaration. Of special interest to my delegation, I would note that the same holds for the Declaration of Barbados on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Yet it is true that progress has been slow in addressing the needs of the world's poor. Likewise, 10 years after the Rio Summit, the quality of our environment and its ability to sustain future generations still diminishes daily. At the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, the Federated States of Micronesia joined the other Pacific Island countries in proposing a number of umbrella initiatives that provide a framework for partnerships with developed countries to assist us in implementing sustainable development. Those initiatives reflect our common concerns but recognize the uniqueness of each of our island nations. We hope that those practical proposals will help to turn decades of pronouncements into action. We are encouraged that some of our Pacific neighbours, such as New Zealand and Australia, have already come forward with specific partnership proposals, and we look forward to the support of the 17 United Nations system as well. Such developments convince us that Johannesburg will be remembered as a landmark on our long journey. We appreciate the international community's decision to hold the next Barbados review conference in 2004, and we look forward to adopting concrete goals and timetables at the international level by that time. Development and the environment are inexorably linked. That truth has been reaffirmed in each of these Declarations. We all know that there cannot be sustainable development without environmental protection, and there cannot be environmental protection without sustainable development. Nor can the world hope to support 6 billion people at the level of consumption we now see in the developed world. The future will require sacrifice: sacrifice on the part of the North, to adopt more sustainable living practices, and by the South, which must recognize that the past development paths followed by the North unfortunately do not lead to a sustainable future. It is this body, above all others, that will grapple with those painful realities. We must realize that they present issues even more complex than some of our more familiar geopolitical concerns. Among other things, new attention must be given to the reform of the United Nations, because we must address more than just structural adjustments in the representational format of our body. This reform must take due account that the entire world is reassessing our accustomed ways of living. Still, there must be a start. First and foremost, we call on all nations to give fresh consideration to reform of the Security Council to better reflect today's realities. In that regard, we reiterate our support for permanent seats for Japan and Germany and for a system that ensures more equitable representation by developing countries. The Federated States of Micronesia is engaged on all issues before this body that affect us. But, given our unique circumstances, we have no choice but to place top priority on protection of the oceans and the climate. Global ocean policy has been a bright spot in recent years, particularly as it relates to the Pacific. Pacific island Governments recently concluded work on a regional ocean policy, and they have developed a number of positive new initiatives on fisheries and other related matters. Yet those positive accomplishments in ocean policy are threatened by continued violation of our sovereignty in the form of illegal fishing and trans-shipment of hazardous materials. Only a few weeks ago, in defiance of international obligations, several of the world's largest industrial powers collaborated once again in yet another extremely dangerous shipment of radioactive material through our region. Without prior notice or assurance of compensation for damage, this shipment passed within 30 miles of the capital of the Federated States of Micronesia. Our expressed objections to this violation of our exclusive economic zone were flatly ignored. Effective regulation of ocean-based trans- shipment of these dangerous materials must find its way into the priorities of this body. Similarly, with regard to climate change, we welcome the positive accomplishments in the negotiating arena under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, most notably the Kyoto Protocol. We applaud those nations that have joined us in ratifying the Protocol, and we welcome with anticipation its imminent entry into force. But the sad reality is that 10 years have passed since the Framework Convention became effective 10 more years of damage to the earth's climate. A handful of countries have succeeded in continuing to stall progress in the reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions. Again I ask these nations, as I have on each occasion when I have appeared before this body, to reconsider their policies and to recognize the international implications of their inaction. I call upon those nations to remember the wise words of United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who said that `liberty does not permit an individual citizen or group of citizens to commit acts of depredation against nature in such a way as to harm their neighbours, and especially to harm future generations of Americans.' Let us not lose sight of the fact that there is now universal recognition of the reality of the problem of climate change and its causes. In the light of that recognition, it is not enough that most nations are willing to take action. All must work together to develop effective mitigation strategies to prevent further damage, and to define and implement adaptation measures for the most vulnerable. 18 We have just over 100,000 citizens in the Federated States of Micronesia. We have no natural sources of fossil fuel. We have become far too dependent on imports of fossil fuels during the past half-century; even so, our contribution to global emissions of greenhouse gases is negligible. Looking to the future, we have committed to a reduction and eventual elimination of fossil fuel for energy production. But we must rely on Western technologies if we are to move in the direction of renewable sources of energy. Thus, we are disturbed by the policies of developed countries that give little more than lip service to development of renewable energy technologies. We are alarmed at the continuing refusal of some nations even to begin to acknowledge the nature of the climate problem, let alone to take progressive action to fight it. Also distressing is the fact that, at the same time, some of those nations are reducing their aid presence in developing countries. Some feel that, just when the need is greatest, the world community is closing in upon itself, in a cocoon of self-interest. It is inconceivable to us that global champions of equity and democratic ideals nations whose principles we seek to emulate could assume a position on the most crucial social issues of our time that succumbs to private interests. These private interests, for obvious reasons, insist that, to the extent any problem exists, it can be addressed in good time, on a voluntary basis. My people find it very difficult to reconcile such private influences with the principles those nations promote. This fifty-seventh session provides a genuine opportunity for the world community as a whole to take note of our recent conferences, to seize the initiative and to set a course towards tangible progress on the issues we all agree to be of common concern. In conclusion, our deepest sympathies are extended to the victims of war, terrorism, political injustice, environmental degradation and economic want throughout the world. We hope and pray that our actions here might, in ways large and small, lead to a better world for them and for us all. The Federated States of Micronesia is a small force within the community of nations. Nevertheless, we pledge our full assistance and cooperation towards the attainment of this goal. We take to heart the words of British statesman Sir Francis Bacon, who once said: `He makes the greatest mistake who decides to do nothing because he can do so little.'   ﻿On behalf of the Government and people of Solomon Islands, I wish to congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of the fifty-seventh session 4 of the General Assembly. I am confident that, under his experience and skilful leadership, we will reach positive results for this Organization and for all peoples of the world. I also thank His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-Soo, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Republic of Korea, for his distinguished service in presiding over the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. In the same manner, I thank His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General, for his good and untiring efforts and his dedication aimed at realizing the principles and purposes of the United Nations. Like others who have spoken before me, I also wish to congratulate East Timor, our close Pacific neighbour that is soon to be a member of the United Nations, and Switzerland as a new member of the United Nations. Solomon Islands looks forward to developing further relationships with those two countries through bilateral and multilateral means. As we journey into this new millennium, challenges facing the international community are more daunting. Human ingenuity and technological advances complicate those challenges. Acts of terrorism and armed conflicts proliferate in many parts of the world. Prospects for progressive economic and social services and security, and improved living standards for the vast majority of the world's population have become mere unrealized dreams. Nonetheless, as an international instrument for the promotion and the betterment of human life, the United Nations has considerable ability and experience in pursuing what is best for the common good of all peoples around the world, including guaranteeing world peace and security through the Security Council. Today I reaffirm the commitment of Solomon Islands to the principles of the Charter. I also wish to place on record the appreciation of Solomon Islands for the worthy assistance from other United Nations organs and agencies, including the Economic and Social Council, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the International Labour Organization (ILO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the Commission on Human Rights. Solomon Islands also upholds its faith in the Security Council and acknowledge its important role in the maintenance and promotion of international peace and security. At the same time, we recognize the changing scene in the international political and security environment. Those changes must be reflected in our Organization as well. The reform of the Security Council must continue, including a review on the relevance of the provisions of veto power accorded to permanent members. Moreover, Solomon Islands supports the expansion of the permanent membership of the Council to include Japan and Germany. Those two countries have so much influence in the global political and economic arena and therefore they are better placed to contribute constructively and positively to world peace and security. For a small island nation like Solomon Islands, the United Nations is the foremost institution to turn to in time of trouble and need. My predecessor stated that from this rostrum last year. At that time, he elaborated on the circumstances of the conflict that had erupted in Solomon Islands between November 1998 and October 2000. Today, we are still struggling with the outcome of that devastating conflict. We have lost much. We have to do much more to reconstruct the destroyed fabric of our country. That is the course my Government has charted, in order to maintain our sovereignty with dignity and to show integrity and respect as a Member of the United Nations family. The mandate to lead the country was clearly given to me through the democratic process when Solomon Islands held its post-conflict general election on 5 December 2001. The polls returned a new Parliament of 50 duly elected members, charged with a clear working majority of 29 out of the 50 members. The national coalition Government for peace, unity and reconstruction assumed office and undertook the challenging task of rebuilding Solomon Islands. The foremost strategy that my Government has adopted is to pursue four policy areas: first, the restoration of peace and security; secondly, education; thirdly, health and medial services; and, fourthly, productive sectors. We began this important work during the first 100 days of entering into office. We have since consolidated our efforts, notwithstanding practical difficulties that emanate from the lack of financial and the absence of other relevant resources. 5 Our second strategy is the formulation of a national economic recovery plan. That plan focuses on strengthening agriculture, fisheries, forestry, mining, manufacturing, tourism and infrastructure development sectors. Besides giving closer attention to the promotion of health and education services, the plan also addresses population growth and ensures promotion of responsible environmental management. I am happy to state that, at present, we are also working on a sustainable development plan for our country. An integrated financial package for this strategy has been submitted to our development partners. Thus far, the responses received, while encouraging, still raise questions that require serious and genuine consideration in view of our present circumstances. It is here that we sincerely look to the United Nations for assistance in facilitating closer consultation and constructive engagement with the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank. The huge amount of debt that burdens poor countries is real, and it continues to afflict most third- world countries, including small States such as Solomon Islands. This is a real challenge that my people and country face as we make our best efforts and endeavours to rebuild our nation and maintain our independence and sovereignty with dignity, integrity and respect during these difficult times and in the future. On this important point, the United Nations should consider supporting debt forgiveness for countries that are debt-strapped. Solomon Islands can be included in this category. A few days ago, the people of the City of New York, the United States of America and the rest of the world paid moving tributes to the thousands of innocent lives tragically lost through the cowardly and senseless acts of terrorism committed on 11 September 2001. The heroic men and women who perished at that sad time now deserve a special place in our hearts and in the annals of history. My Government is taking steps to accede to a number of international conventions relating to counter-terrorist activities. We have communicated these important measures to the United Nations. We seek the assistance of the United Nations and members of the international community to enhance our efforts. The increase in armed conflicts and the illegal trade of small arms are directly linked. Armed conflicts have increased in most parts of the world. They are fuelled mainly by the availability of the illegal manufacture, official sale or supply of small arms, and this has resulted in the loss of innocent life. Over the past 50 years, small weapons and landmines have killed more people than weapons of mass destruction. Small arms have also found their way into Solomon Islands, and they have been used in the three- year conflict which has adversely affected my country's sociocultural cohesiveness and good governance. In no uncertain manner, this has crippled the economy. The continuing presence of small arms in communities has posed a major threat to the peace, security and stability of my nation. Any hope of economic recovery is constantly threatened by lawlessness. Notwithstanding this, the Government remains committed, within its limited resources, to retrieving arms and restoring confidence to our people in the communities. However, we believe that the international community, through the United Nations, has a pivotal role to play in assisting the country to rid itself of armed threats by taking more ambitious action to curb the arms culture that is taking root in our country. Peace of mind and safety from danger are not achieved by the mere absence of war. Rather, they are the product of a nation's ability to achieve sustainable economic prosperity, better education, and health and social services for all its people. Peace and security for every human soul comes down simply to meeting the most basic needs. Even with the successful outcome of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, which included promises of economic growth and protection of our environment, Solomon Islands remains sceptical about the practical outcome of action plans for developing and least developed countries. We have committed ourselves to similar action plans for sustainable development in the past. Agenda 21 of 1992 and the Barbados Programme of Action for small island developing States, among others, are valid policy blueprints for sustainable development. Unfortunately, we have not lived up to our commitments. We all have failed. That is why world leaders again assembled, in South Africa, to take stock of our failures and make new commitments. And indeed, new commitments have been made. Now is the time to test the commitments made in South Africa. 6 As The Honourable Laisenia Qarase, Prime Minister of Fiji and Chairman of the Pacific Islands Forum, aptly said in his address at the World Summit, let us turn our words into deeds. Solomon Islands can only hope that, this time around, there is a will to lead us eventually to the goals and objectives set at the World Summit in South Africa. Solomon Islands is very much aware of its vulnerability to natural and man-induced disasters. Like other small island developing countries, we continue to seek of the international community not only to recognize the uniqueness of our vulnerability but also to take concerted action towards achieving many of our goals and objectives for sustainable development, collectively as a group and individually as nations. The communiquÈ issued by the recent Pacific Islands Forum summit held last August in Suva, Fiji, reflects the political, economic, security and environmental issues that are important to the region. These need our collective resolve, as well as the attention and cooperation of the wider international community. The adverse impact of sea-level rise is a threat to the economies and survival of small and low-lying island countries, in particular in the Pacific, the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean. Scientific research and reports, including the Third Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, issued in 2001, have given us all the more reason to be deeply concerned. Solomon Islands joins other small island States in calling again on the countries that have yet to become parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol to do so, and seriously to commit to reducing their greenhouse gas emissions. The least developed countries still grapple with the harsh realities of poverty, vulnerability to external economic shocks, debt burden, poor infrastructure, and poor or limited access to better education, health, social services and the list goes on. Even with an increasing commitment to globalization, the situation of many least developed countries and nation-States has neither improved nor stabilized. In many instances, conditions have worsened. Solomon Islands believes that the renewed commitment through the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010, adopted at the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, is a timely action by all international organizations to refocus attention and global resources on the neediest and poorest countries. We support the immediate implementation of the Programme and note with satisfaction the progress that has been made so far. Solomon Islands once again calls upon the United Nations to respect the expressed wish of the Government and the people of the Republic of China to be readmitted as a full and equal member of this Organization. The world has marvelled at Taiwan's economic transformation. Within a short span of time, it has not only established a stable and vibrant domestic economy, but also has become one of the world's most influential economies in terms of international trade, investment outflows and information technology. Taiwan is a sovereign country in full control of its own affairs and with influence in the world economy, and it is unjust to deny its people the right to stand tall and be counted among the many nations represented in international institutions. Taiwan is a willing and able country, ready to shoulder the obligations of the United Nations and other international organizations. Taiwan has proved itself through its international economic cooperation with many developing and least developed countries. Solomon Islands is convinced that that there are no legal barriers to Taiwan's membership in the United Nations, only political obstacles. Let us therefore cast aside those political obstacles and take a positive approach by according the Government and the people of the Republic of China the membership they deserve and the opportunity to fully participate in the affairs of the United Nations under its Charter. ﻿My delegation congratulates Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, and we thank his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his effective conduct of the fifty-sixth session. We also pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his enlightened and progressive leadership. In addition, we warmly welcome Switzerland into the family of nations, and we look forward with pleasure to the admission of East Timor. When the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly was convened a year ago, shockwaves were reverberating across the United States and around the world as a result of the traumatic and cataclysmic events of 11 September. My country's thoughts and prayers continue to be with the people of the United States, especially those who have suffered irreparable loss. As the curtain rises on the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, there is evidence that some dark clouds have lifted, thanks to the solidarity of the international community, which has galvanized into taking action to prevent such dastardly and heinous terrorist attacks. Nevertheless, there is a need for vigilance, as demonstrated by the Counter-Terrorism Committee created to oversee the implementation of the landmark Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Grenada has given its full support and commitment to this resolution by using scarce financial and human resources to implement security measures and new counter- terrorism strategies, including national legislation to conform with the resolution. In this connection, we appeal for assistance from willing partners in the fight against terrorism and the concomitant trade in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances that traverses our region via the Caribbean Sea. This waterway must be maintained as a zone of peace in the context of sustainable development, free also from pollutants and nuclear waste. The general debate is taking place in the continuing shadow of 11 September, which has adversely affected the global economy and the social situation in developed countries. However, the spillovers have affected, much more profoundly, small developing countries such as my own. Particularly hard-hit has been the tourism industry, which is a major source of foreign exchange. Tourist arrivals by air and sea have decreased significantly, due in large measure to increased security arrangements introduced in international transportation and, of course, the natural fear of travelling. Loss of revenue in tourism affects the hotel industry, employment, transportation, banking, agriculture and other tourism activities that help to sustain the economy of my country. The next hardest hit sector is trade. Conventional economic wisdom says that poor developing countries must grow their way out of poverty. Trade offers the best hope, because it is the engine of growth and development. Many products from developing countries face untold obstacles in entering the markets of the rich developed countries. In this connection, the decline in trade, especially primary commodities, has a direct relation on developing countries' ability to import goods essential for development. According to the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Mr. Horst Köhler, the true test of the credibility of wealthy nations' efforts to combat poverty lies in their willingness to open up their markets and phase out trade-distorting subsidies in areas where developing countries have a comparative advantage, as in agriculture, processed foods, textiles, clothing and light manufactures. Grenada fully understands the critical role that international trade plays in the alleviation of poverty. However, improved market access is a necessity for the development of smaller nations. We, therefore, reiterate our call to the more developed nations to make a concerted effort to reduce trade barriers and tariffs, which impede poorer developing countries from full participation in the global economy. One result of 11 September has been to further exacerbate the inequality between the developing and the developed countries as trading partners in the free play of market forces. According to the Secretary- General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the challenge now is to make the multilateral trading system more development-friendly. Now, more than ever, the concerns of developing countries, enunciated at the third session of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Seattle and emphasized at the Fourth World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in Doha, should be the global agenda to fight poverty in developing countries. The Doha ministerial declaration, adopted in November of 2001, reaffirmed the need for special and differential treatment as stated in that paragraph 3 declaration: “We recognize the particular vulnerability of the least developed countries ... we are committed ... to improving their effective participation in the multilateral trading system.” (TRADE/2002/1, pp. 9-10) In Grenada, our imports declined by 10.9 per cent in 2001, following a 20 per cent increase just the year before. Our exports performed even worse by registering a 24 per cent decline in 2001, as compared to a 13 per cent increase the previous year. The effect on our growth rate was not surprising. The economy grew by 3.4 per cent in 2001, compared to 6.6 per cent in the year 2000. The HIV/AIDS pandemic casts a dark shadow over the General Assembly's global agenda. HIV/AIDS has become not only a health pandemic, but also a threat to the development of international peace and security. This disease constitutes a global emergency, as it affects every country of the world; not a single one is immune. The Pan American Health Organization has reported that an estimated 2.8 million people in the Americas are currently living with AIDS. Out of that number, 420,000 in the Caribbean are infected. The Caribbean is second only to sub-Saharan Africa in incidence and mortality rates. HIV/AIDS poses a drain on the scarce resources of the small economies, like Grenada's, whose revenues have been further negatively impacted by last year's horrific events. The Caribbean is facing a serious problem with the disease, and there is no way that our small countries can stem the ravages of HIV/AIDS without a massive infusion of resources. The Caribbean urgently needs financial and human resources for education and counselling in preventative measures and treatment, with respect to HIV/AIDS and the opportunistic diseases, such as tuberculosis and others. Moreover, the availability of medicine and the ability to purchase it constitute the greatest challenge. 12 We applaud the establishment in 2002 of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We are also thankful to the Pan American Health Organization and the World Health Organization (WHO) representative offices for assistance in the facilitation, implementation and technical evaluation of many projects in the Caribbean region. However, there is much more to be done, and the costs are overwhelming. The World Summit on Sustainable Development, recently ended in Johannesburg, and its precursor, the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey, and the conclusions of the Millennium Summit are all blueprints for sustainable development. The common thread in all the final documents is poverty eradication. Poverty, hunger and disease constitute a chain of misery with devastating physical, mental and psychological consequences. The Secretary-General summarized the nature of the challenges to human development best in the introduction of his report to the Preparatory Committee for the High-level International Intergovernmental Event on Financing for Development: “As the new century dawns, there can be no task more urgent for the United Nations than that fixed by the Millennium Summit of rescuing one billion men, women and children from ‘abject and dehumanizing poverty'”. (A/AC.257/12, para.1) Grenada's stated position at the World Summit on Sustainable Development is as follows: if sustainable development is to become a reality, our focus must be on the health and social well-being of the world's peoples. Clean water, unpolluted air and food security are rights, not privileges. What is required now is not the elaboration of further final documents, replete with grand phraseology and pious pronouncements, but the implementation of the existing ones that are most appropriate to the human condition. This brings to mind the need to implement the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States (SIDS) embodied in Agenda 21. We are hopeful that there will be a comprehensive review of the Barbados Plan of Action in 2004 in Mauritius so that the difficulties that small islands face in the pursuit of sustainable development will be considerably reduced. As a matter of urgency, the United Nations, its agencies and willing stakeholders and partners should seek to implement the first Millennium Goal: the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger by 2015. Grenada awaits the time when the United Nations will include the Republic of China on Taiwan in its membership. The Government of Grenada has close and collaborative ties with the Republic of China and has witnessed its economic achievements, seen demonstrations of its democratic principles, and is cognizant of the dedication of its people to international norms and ideals. In this spirit Grenada calls for the full membership of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the United Nations. We are convinced that the Republic of China on Taiwan meets the standards for United Nations membership, since it has a democratic Government and possesses the attributes of a nation-State. Indeed, the Republic of China on Taiwan has tremendous potential to provide inputs for the further development of the international community, as recognized by the World Trade Organization. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), conceptualized by African leaders and welcomed at the Summit of the Group of Eight industrialized countries (G-8), represents an idea whose time has come. The international community too welcomed NEPAD a few days ago, when it was presented by a high-level panel of African heads of State or Government during the present session of the General Assembly. Implementation of NEPAD in partnership with the developed countries will mark the dawn of a new era for the economic development of Africa's abundant natural resources. Thus, Africa, one of the largest and most centrally located continents, can become the breadbasket of the world. Grenada as part of the African diaspora, hails NEPAD with great expectation and excitement. The United Nations has the ability, with the involvement of its Members, to make a difference. It is the international forum that struggles with and attempts to find solutions to difficult global problems. Grenada has been watching closely the developments in international peace and security; economic development; social advancement and cooperation; the 13 fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria and other threatening diseases; environmental sustainability; and a plethora of other regional, national and international issues. For small countries such as Grenada, attending international conferences presents a paradox. We aspire to be integrally involved in these important conferences, yet financial constraints sometimes outweigh the benefits of being in attendance. Our absence, as many other small nations would agree, should not by any means be construed as a lack of interest. Enormous expectations and optimism must be balanced with a degree of realism. My delegation assures the General Assembly that it fully supports the efforts of the United Nations to face the many challenges that arise. However, we must ensure that the many decisions taken at the United Nations summit conferences are implemented. But the goals must be achievable and beneficial to all Member States. ﻿Allow me at the outset, on behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf to congratulate you wholeheartedly on your election as President of this session of the General Assembly. As testimony to the esteem enjoyed by you and your country, Sir, you may rest assured of the support of the Rwanda delegation in carrying out your tasks. I should like to take this opportunity to pay a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor for the effective way in which he guided our work during the fifty-sixth session. I should also like, on behalf of my Government, to express my gratitude and appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts to ensure the effective and transparent functioning of the United Nations and to promote world peace. The Government of Rwanda warmly welcomes the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste and the Swiss Confederation to the United Nations. We are already familiar with their contribution to the enhancement of the role of our great United Nations family, especially their respect for the principles of equal rights and the right of peoples to self-determination. In this connection, the Government of Rwanda appeals for appropriate measures to be taken to ensure a fair and lasting settlement of the conflict in Western Sahara, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Organization. Furthermore, the Government of Rwanda reiterates its hope that peace will be achieved in the Middle East — a peace that guarantees the creation of a secure Palestinian State with recognized boundaries, coexisting peacefully with the State of Israel, whose security should also be guaranteed. I should like to recall that, with the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the end of the ideological war often referred to as the cold war, the world entered a new era, with a new economic order. Despite the existence of hotbeds of violence in a number of areas on all continents, we welcome and encourage initiatives designed to resolve the tensions created during the cold war. In that connection, the Rwandan Government encourages talks between North and South Korea. We hope that the two parties will move forward towards the peaceful reunification of the Korean Peninsula. The Rwandan Government also supports the principle of one China. The question of Taiwan is an internal matter for China and can be effectively resolved out of the context of the ideological war that gave rise to it, in accordance with the principle, already accepted by the Chinese themselves, of one country and two systems. 19 This session of the General Assembly is being held one year after the terrible events of 11 September 2001. The terrorist attack perpetrated against the United States remains deeply etched in the memory of the people of Rwanda, and I would like to reiterate our solidarity with the American people. I do so with good reason: perhaps I should recall that, since 1994, Rwanda has been living under the perpetual threat of terrorist groups based in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the most active of which is known as the Army for the Liberation of Rwanda (ALIR), an organization made up of elements of the former Rwandan Army (ex-FAR) forces and Interahamwe militias that were responsible for the 1994 genocide. The leaders of ALIR were among those who planned and carried out the genocide in Rwanda. Since 1994 such elements have attacked Rwanda on many occasions, carrying out the targeted killing of innocent people and destroying social and economic infrastructure of national and international significance. It was such elements that savagely massacred American, British and New Zealand tourists in the Bwindi park in March 1999. Now, in an attempt to mislead international public opinion and escape justice, the members of this terrorist group are endeavouring to organize themselves into political groups using a number of different labels. The Government of Rwanda therefore appeals to the United Nations and its Member States to take the necessary measures to track down and arrest all those responsible for the Rwanda genocide who are now members of ALIR and to bring them to international justice. We also appeal to the United Nations and its Member States to formally condemn those countries that finance, harbour or lend moral, material or logistical support to the ALIR terrorist organization. With regard to the prosecution of those accused of the Rwandan genocide, I reiterate the appeal of the Rwandan Government to the international community to ensure the effectiveness and credibility of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda so that it can truly fulfil the expectations of the people of Rwanda and all justice-loving people. In this connection, special attention should be paid to the recommendations on this subject submitted by my Government to the Security Council. Furthermore, the time has come for the international community to ensure the implementation of the relevant recommendations of the report on the Rwanda genocide that was drafted under United Nations auspices, known as the Carlsson report. With regard to the destabilizing effects of the terrorist activities of ALIR, I should like to advocate as a remedy that support be given to the Lusaka and Pretoria Agreements, which are designed to restore peace in the Great Lakes region. Those two Agreements provide for the disarmament, demobilization, reintegration and repatriation of what are known as the negative forces that are operating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which include ex-FAR forces and Interahamwe. The Rwandan Government appeals as a matter of urgency to the United Nations and its Member States to spare no effort in strongly supporting the implementation of those Agreements. As for Rwanda, it has done its utmost to implement those Agreements and to work to re-establish a genuine and lasting peace in the Great Lakes region. In accordance with the statement made by Paul Kagame, President of the Rwandese Republic, on 13 September during a meeting of the Security Council on the question of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, I would like to take this opportunity to announce that, on 17 September, my Government began to withdraw its troops from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in conformity with the provisions of the Pretoria Accord. My Government is convinced that the implementation of those Agreements will lead us not only to the restoration of security and stability in our subregion, but also to the establishment of a climate of confidence and good cooperative relations that will facilitate common actions in our struggle against the terrorist activities orchestrated by ALIR or by any other terrorist organization. In this connection, I would like reaffirm the commitment of the Government of Rwanda to cooperate fully to achieve the success of any initiative designed to prevent and repress terrorism in all its forms. In this connection, and in implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), our Government has now ratified all the various international instruments to combat terrorism that we had not signed or ratified previously, in addition to the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Convention on 20 the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism, which we had already ratified. Rwanda has just submitted its first report to the Security Council Committee established to follow up the implementation of that resolution. Rwanda is resolutely determined to combat terrorism, source of desolation and instability for the international community. We believe that the international community should mobilize all of its means to fight and to put an end to poverty, which affects so much of our population. It should do more for the eradication of injustice and inequality in order to ensure a better world for future generations. Thus, we call for the strengthening of the United Nations and the entire United Nations system to ensure the implementation of all of the international commitments to help poor countries. Commitments, such as those expressed in the Millennium Declaration, in the Monterrey Consensus and at the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development, should be reflected in concrete actions without delay. Third-world countries, especially countries of Africa, set great store by this. In Africa, we would like to root out the causes of poverty. We have already grasped the different aspects of the situation and decided upon a framework to guide us in this long struggle against poverty, namely the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). Within NEPAD, we have pledged to put an end to fratricidal wars that devastate our already moribund economies. We have pledged also to work towards democracy, good governance, and for letting the rule of law prevail. The international community is hereby called upon to assist us in this process. We ask each of the rich countries to reexamine its positions regarding the terms that are often linked to various interventions aimed at helping poor countries, particularly as regards the debt and official development assistance (ODA). This needs to be done in order to enable these countries to confront effectively the various scourges that threaten them, including famine, pandemic diseases, HIV/AIDS, malaria, and so forth, so that they can eventually catch up with the rich countries. Hence, globalization will become profitable for the whole of mankind.  I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I thank your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung- soo, for the leadership he displayed at a particularly critical moment for the Organization. To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, I reaffirm Brazil’s confidence in his statesmanship. I have the pleasure of greeting the entry of East Timor into the fold of the United Nations, just as we welcomed it last July in Brasilia into our Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries. A free Timor is a remarkable United Nations success story. Brazil also welcomes Switzerland, as it has now become a full member of this global political forum. I come to this Hall as the representative of a country that has faith in the United Nations and that views multilateralism as the guiding principle of relations among States. This is a conviction we hold dear at all times, good and bad. We are at a particularly difficult juncture for the Organization. This moment calls for measures sustained by the principles and values on which the United Nations was founded. Brazil has defended them since the first international conferences of the twentieth century. We have never let ourselves be tempted by the argument of power. Rather, we have been guided by the power of argument. This has been the foreign policy of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso. Throughout the eight years of the two terms of office to which he has been democratically elected, certain fundamental guidelines have been recurrent: fostering democratic decision-making; overcoming the governance deficit in international relations; designing a new financial architecture and providing effective solutions for volatility in capital flows; defending a multilateral trade regime that is both fair and balanced — hence, the importance of the World Trade Organization and of the Doha mandate; correcting the distortions resulting from economic globalization that is not accompanied by a corresponding process of political and institutional globalization; and affirming the value of human rights and sustainable development. These are challenges that we cannot face alone. For this reason, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso has sought to strengthen the Common Market of the South, together with South American integration, as instruments for peace, cooperation and greater competitiveness among our countries. Similarly, President Cardoso has promoted the development of partnerships in all continents, pursuing well-balanced negotiations for the establishment of free trade areas, in particular with the European Union, as well as with the countries taking part in the Free Trade Area of the Americas process. We are committed to seeing the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol and the establishment of the International Criminal Court; to furthering the social development agenda; and to moving forward on nuclear and conventional disarmament. The Brazilian vision of the world under the leadership of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso expresses goals not just of Government, but also of the entire country and society. That is why the electoral process now under way will further strengthen democracy in Brazil and highlight the country’s international credentials. Our commitment to the United Nations and to multilateralism will not waver “in times of storm and blustery winds”, to quote Camões, the great poet of the Portuguese language. The greater the challenges, such as those facing us at this difficult juncture, the greater the need for answers grounded in legitimacy — legitimacy born of participation and consensus. Cooperation must be our modus operandi. In the multilateral sphere, leadership is crucial to the tasks before us. We are clearly aware of that, yet the form and content of each task must be defined through dialogue. Only through dialogue will a coalition of truly united nations be built — nations united by the power of persuasion. The tangled interests that form a global web of interdependence can be managed only through authority rooted in multilateral institutions and in respect for international law. The commitment to negotiated settlements, under the aegis of multilateralism, must be upheld. At the time of the 11 September terrorist attacks, this Organization immediately showed its solidarity with the United States of America by adopting resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council. At the regional level, the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance was invoked on a Brazilian initiative as an expression of our firm repudiation and condemnation of all barbaric acts of terrorism and of our solidarity with the United States. These responses have taken the form of renewed collaboration in security, intelligence, police and judicial cooperation issues. Lasting solutions to terrorism, international drug- trafficking and organized crime require careful and persistent efforts to set up partnerships and cooperative arrangements consistent with the United Nations multilateral system. Many countries and regions have been burdened with the costs of globalization, while at the same time being deprived of its benefits. The very same free flow of capital that can foster investment is responsible for speculative attacks against national currencies and balance of payment crises, with negative impact on the continuity of public policies and on the alleviation of social ills. Protectionism and all forms of barriers to trade, both tariff and non-tariff, continue to suffocate developing economies and to nullify the competitiveness of their exports. Liberalization of the agricultural sector has been nothing more than a promise repeatedly put off to an uncertain future. 5 A/57/PV.2 The globalization to which we aspire requires reform of economic and financial institutions. It must not be limited to the triumph of the market. A modern understanding of development must encompass the protection of human rights, be they civil and political or economic, social and cultural. In this respect, the appointment of Sergio Vieira de Mello as the new United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights is a great honour for all Brazilians. He succeeds Mary Robinson, whose important achievements deserve recognition. The United Nations was created to maintain peace and security. However, armed conflicts and pockets of irrational violence persist today. The situation in the Middle East underscores how distant we still are from the international order imagined by the founders of the United Nations Charter. Brazil supports the creation of a democratic, secure and economically viable Palestinian State, as well as the right of the Palestinian people to self- determination. Brazil defends the right of the State of Israel to exist within recognized borders and of its people to live in security. These are essential prerequisites for lasting peace in the Middle East. Only by mutually and comprehensively acknowledging the conflicting legitimacies in the region, as well as by building on existing agreements, can we staunch the indiscriminate destructiveness of violence and forge a way forward. The use of force at the international level is admissible only once all diplomatic alternatives have been exhausted. Force must be exercised only in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and in a manner consistent with the determinations of the Security Council. Otherwise, the credibility of the Organization will be undermined in a way that will not only be illegitimate, but that will also give rise to situations of precarious and short-lived stability. In the specific case of Iraq, Brazil believes that it is incumbent upon the Security Council to determine the measures necessary to ensure full compliance with relevant resolutions. The Security Council’s exercise of its responsibilities is the way to reduce tensions and to avoid risking the unpredictable consequences resulting from wider instability. In Angola the international community must support recent positive developments that open the way to the rebuilding of the country and the consolidation of peace and democracy. Strengthening the system of collective security remains a challenge. The Security Council needs reform in order to enhance its legitimacy and lay the foundations for more solid international cooperation in building a just and stable international order. A central feature of this reform should be the expansion of the number of members, both in the permanent and non- permanent categories. Brazil has already made it known — and I reaffirm it here — that it is ready to contribute to the work of the Security Council and to assume all its responsibilities. For Brazil, the United Nations is the public space for the creation of power, which, according to Hannah Arendt, can result only from the human capacity to act in concert. The United Nations is the crucial hinge in creating a global governance focused on more equitable distribution of the dividends of peace and progress. Therein lies our vision for the future, a vision of solidarity among peoples and nations, a vision made legitimate by renewed and inclusive understanding of power. We are inspired by the observation of Guicciardini, the politically more successful Florentine contemporary of Machiavelli: “Among men, hope is normally more powerful than fear”.﻿On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Malawi and on my own behalf, I would like to congratulate President Kavan most warmly on his unanimous election as President of the fifty-seventh regular session of the General Assembly. I am confident that under his able 28 leadership, buttressed by a pragmatic approach to the proceedings of the session, we will be able to further consolidate past gains on a variety of issues, and also mobilize renewed international resolve and political will to reinvigorate our continued search for viable responses and solutions to the many pressing challenges that threaten the very survival of humankind. I take this opportunity also to pay special tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, for the able manner in which he handled the work of the General Assembly during his tenure of office. Further, I would like to register my country's vote of thanks for and special recognition of the invaluable contribution made by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in injecting fresh impetus and a sharper sense of purpose and direction into the work of the United Nations. His informative and insightful annual reports on the work of the United Nations clearly point to an organization that is moving in the direction that it should and is much more focused on the quest for accelerated growth and socio-economic progress of the disadvantaged poor nations. A number of developments have taken place around the world since the last general debate. While some of these are relatively positive and are, thus far, a cause for optimism, yet others, a majority, are, at best, disheartening and tend to cast a long shadow on prospects for long term progress, especially in our part of the world. As I speak now, for example, six southern Africa countries, including Malawi, are in the throes of a severe and life-threatening food crisis brought on by drought-related deficits in grain harvests. Up to 13 million people in Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe are facing severe food shortage, which has already given rise to a threat of widespread famine and a rise in famine-related health problems. What we are clearly seeing here is a further deterioration in the general poverty situation and the humanitarian plight of the rural masses in these countries. Chances of the food insecurity translating into a serious region-wide security and health catastrophe cannot be over-emphasized, especially given that southern Africa is already the epicentre of the global implosion caused by HIV/AIDS. The current food crisis in the sub-region stands out as the severest in many years. It is poised to inflict incalculable damage on the social, economic and cultural fabric of whole communities, and it endangers the efficacy of the financial and economic sustainability of the institutional and public policy frameworks for sustainable development currently under implementation. Indeed, southern Africa is facing uniquely different multifaceted humanitarian crises arising not only from civil wars, but also from social and economic factors and other natural disasters. The crisis is certain to roll back numerous past gains in many sectors, particularly because of the centrality of agricultural production to the gross domestic product and rural employment of most of the affected countries. The food shortage has placed further serious strains on the already low revenue collection capacities of the affected countries, especially to the extent that budgetary allocations are having to be appropriated from critical social sector services to fund massive grain imports necessary to supplement inadequate local grain stocks, thereby financially starving other equally urgent sectoral needs. Sadly, however, the next harvest, due in eight months, may not hold much promise either, unless the drought cycle, which is the major contributing factor, does not recur. Initially, Malawi faced a grain deficit of 600,000 tons caused by two years of a paradoxical combination of drought and devastating torrential rains and floods. This tonnage was urgently required to stave off a rapidly deteriorating famine situation that is expected to affect 3.2 million people. The President, His Excellency Dr. Bakili Muluzi, declared the current food shortages a national disaster on 28 February 2002, and a vigorous national appeal for emergency relief has been under way since then. The response to this appeal by the donor community, both local and international, has been very encouraging. On behalf of the Government of Malawi, I take this opportunity to express my sincere gratitude and deep appreciation to the local and international humanitarian organizations and Governments, such as those of the European Union, the Governments of Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, and other friendly Governments, which together have financed nearly 75 per cent of the emergency relief supplies received so far in Malawi. We also wish to thank the United Nations funds and programmes for 29 their timely assistance, in particular the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations, the World Food Programme and the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), as well as resident United Nations agencies, for providing relief coordination and procurement services during this critical hour of need. In a special way, and on behalf of the six Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries affected by the famine, the Government of Malawi wishes to thank the Secretary-General and the United Nations family for successfully organizing the Consolidated National Appeals for the Humanitarian Crisis in Southern Africa, which took place on 18 July 2002, here at United Nations Headquarters. We are grateful for the outcome of the appeal, and we would like to extend similar sentiments of appreciation to all Governments and donor organizations that made pledges and commitments towards the funding requirements of the appeal. In addition, we welcome and applaud the Secretary-General's timely appointment of the Executive Director of the World Food Programme, Mr. James Morris, as his Special Envoy for the southern African humanitarian crisis. Mr. Morris's personal meetings and consultations with the Heads of State and Government of the six southern African countries and his tour of the subregion have led to useful high-level exchanges that will form an important basis for tackling the problem of food insecurity in future. We undertake to work with him and give him all the support and cooperation necessary for the fulfilment of his mandate. The high levels of poverty and the deepening scourge of the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other transmissible diseases afflicting our people continue to ravage populations in the developing countries, particularly those of Africa. We take no relief from the annual reports for the year 2002 released by United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the World Health Organization, whose graphic statistical data and hard facts portray an unabating, vicious and complex interplay between structural poverty and a startlingly high HIV/AIDS prevalence in poor countries. The resulting humanitarian crisis threatens millions more lives over the next few years. As home to one of the largest numbers of victims of the HIV/AIDS pandemic in the world, southern Africa needs closer attention and concrete actions, as well as deeper resource commitments by the international community, to help build sustainable capacity to address the critical poverty issues and excessive mortality from HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other diseases. These are extremely sensitive issues, and the international donor community should consider, on an emergency basis, the difficult moral issues and the choices involved. It is extremely troubling that some Member States and donor institutions have suddenly taken a minimalist approach to the central role played by United Nations funds and programmes in tackling health problems in the developing countries. It is needless to remind this Assembly that the work of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in tackling the HIV/AIDS pandemic, in the implementation of the Programme of Action adopted at the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) and in preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV/ AIDS is very crucial. We call upon donors and multinational institutions to reconsider their decision and to restore funding to UNFPA. Further, we call upon multilateral donor institutions and industrialized countries to grant deeper debt relief and forgiveness. Transnational organizations, which extract huge profits from their business operations in poor countries, have the moral responsibility to invest in HIV/AIDS prevention, care, support and treatment. International pharmaceutical corporations, too, ought to show more compassion by expanding access to antiretroviral drugs and other life- sustaining medicines, including meaningful concessions on price reduction and voluntary donations. We note with gratitude the positive steps taken by some pharmaceutical companies in that direction. My Government acknowledges the important role played by the United Nations in mobilizing support and resources for the development process in the poor countries. It is not enough, however, to hold one conference after another without effective follow-up and implementation mechanisms. There is therefore a need for supportive global processes that would ensure shorter time lags between the adoption of programmes of action and their implementation. It is our hope that the establishment of the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed 30 Countries in the United Nations Secretariat will promote regular consultations and closer follow-up of agreed programmes of action to ensure their fulfilment. Such programmes of action include the Brussels Declaration and Programme of Action of the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, the International Conference on Financing for Development and other commitments flowing from the recent General Assembly special sessions on HIV/ AIDS and children. An earnest attempt is necessary to link up the commitments and agreed outcomes of the Brussels Programme of Action and the Monterrey Consensus in order to create a rich resource base for the implementation of the Johannesburg Plan of Action for sustainable development. Other major problems and challenges that are faced by poor countries and stifle their progress have previously been extensively covered and debated in the Assembly and in various other international forums. But some of them need to be mentioned again. The transition of poor countries from continued dependence on international charity to self-reliance is contingent on certain factors such as free and open trade. Agricultural and other commodities from developing countries need to gain access to Western markets without unnecessary barriers. It is ironic and morally unacceptable that products from the West are freely offloaded onto our markets but not the other way round. Fair trade is a two-way transaction, and every endeavour must be made to ensure that it remains so. On an optimistic note, we welcome the commendable progress that has been achieved in an effort to bring some conflicts in Africa to resolution. This engenders the hope for the eventual restoration of stability and a chance for decisive peace on the continent. The ceasefire agreement reached on 4 April this year in Angola and the peace agreement signed on 30 July between Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo represent notable historic milestones in bringing to an end the conflicts in the Great Lakes region. I am confident that the United Nations will use that opening to step forward, as it always has, to strengthen its involvement and that of the international community to consolidate those agreements and closely monitor their implementation. I take this opportunity to congratulate the people and the Government of East Timor on their attainment of independence after many decades of dehumanizing subjugation. My Government also welcomes East Timor's coming membership in the United Nations. In the same vein, I congratulate Switzerland on its admission to the membership of the United Nations. The significance of this historic development to the world body cannot be over-emphasized, especially given the invaluable contribution the Government and people of Switzerland have made over the years to the progressive development of international humanitarian and human rights affairs. My Government is concerned at the unrelenting bloodletting in the Middle East, particularly the senseless carnage among innocent civilians. We encourage both the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority to give peace a chance through dialogue. We call, in particular, for the cessation of hostilities, provocation and incitement, which only serve to inflame the delicate conflict situation. Malawi believes in the principle of universality of human rights. One of the basic rights that every member of the global community can expect to enjoy is the right to freedom of association. It is on the basis of that, and in a spirit of reconciliation, that Malawi believes that the United Nations should seriously reconsider the question of the readmission of the Republic of China. The more than 21 million people of Taiwan should be allowed to freely participate in the affairs of the United Nations without any hindrance, as that is what this Organization stands for. After all, Taiwan, through its rapid growth in the economic, political and social sectors has demonstrated that it has a lot to offer for the good of humanity through the United Nations. Africa is on the threshold of a new beginning aimed at making a lasting clean break with the errors and political missteps of the last five decades. The promulgation of a development blueprint, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), provides a very comprehensive, clear focused road map for economic revitalization of the African continent. NEPAD, as a framework for development, contains broad-ranging measures and actions that are reflective of a new vision for long-term development requirements, as well as constructive and beneficial participation in regional, international and other multilateral processes for effective integration of Africa into the global political and economic order. 31 It is gratifying, therefore, that the international community is willing to support this newly emerging pragmatic framework for partnership and ownership of development on the continent. I would like, once again, to encourage our development partners to join in and support Africa's new quest for economic recovery and sustainable development. In conclusion, Malawi, along with other African countries, would like to express deep gratitude to the leaders of the Group of 8 countries for voicing unequivocal support for NEPAD. We are thankful for the creation of the Group of 8 Africa Action Plan adopted at the recent Summit in Kananaskis in Canada, which will operate as the platform for enhanced cooperation and partnership between Africa and the industrialized Group of 8 countries. We are confident that strong international networking and support for NEPAD will provide a solid basis for growth and progress, as well as decisive peace and political stability in Africa.  ﻿Mr. President, I extend my congratulations to you and to the people of the Czech Republic on your election. I offer my very best wishes in all your work during the coming session. I would also like to thank my colleague, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, our regional neighbour, for his leadership of the General Assembly over the past year. Also, may I congratulate the Government and the people of the Swiss Confederation on their decision to join the United Nations. They have long given very distinguished support to the institutions of world peace, and it will be good to work with them here. At the same time, I would like to welcome the coming membership of our neighbour, the Democratic Republic of East Timor. In doing so I would like to thank all the members of the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor. We are very grateful for their fine work there. I assure you that we will be doing our best to consolidate those United Nations efforts for peace in our region. It has been a pleasure working with President Gusmão and his new Government. As they plan their future development, we look forward to continuing this work, not only bilaterally as friends and neighbours, but also through the long-standing process of consultation and cooperation we have established within our regional association. I mention this aspect of our regional work for a specific reason. It is the main point I wish to make at this time. The process I refer to has been at the heart of the work of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) since its founding well over 30 years ago. It is not confined to our neighbours in South-East Asia. It also involves dialogue partners from all over the world as well as all the permanent members of the Security Council. It now covers the whole spectrum of cooperation: political, economic, functional and, since the end of the cold war, all aspects of security cooperation. In other words, it is a comprehensive approach to modern regional and international affairs. It comprises many layers of cooperation bound together by one institution, the United Nations. An enormous amount of work has gone into it. That is why we place equally enormous value on it. We believe it offers a secure way forward for every citizen we represent. I make this point for reasons that deeply concern every one of our colleagues here. In the past year we have been made brutally aware of one terrible fact. The whole process of consultation and cooperation is now threatened. The opportunities it presents to our people are profoundly at risk. Like our fellow Members of this Organization, we have had to accept a grim reality. There is a dark side to the international life we share today: to globalization, to development, to progress, to knowledge and even to the beliefs we cherish, whether they be religious, political or social. We have been taken to this dark side. It is a pitiless, bleak and miserable landscape. There is no path through it along which nation-States can safely proceed. It is, in that sense, a terrifying vision. In South-East Asia we have responded to it as such. We have deeply mourned the innocent victims of terrorism in America, Africa, Europe and Asia. We have condemned all who took those lives. We are, however, trying to move beyond condemnation. We have taken many immediate and practical short-term measures. We have committed ourselves to long-term action. We have had to do this. Without security and stability, there is little chance for us to implement the far-reaching programme of development we have set for ourselves. So, in no way can we permit those who engage in any form of terrorism to succeed. By this, I mean any group that tries to drag our affairs across to their dark side: not just extremists, no matter what cause they claim to represent, but also those who seek to corrupt international systems of trade, commerce, and banking or who wilfully destroy our environment or who trade in human misery. They stand in the way of the deepest interests of the people we represent here, the people for whom the United Nations is the direct opposite of the dark vision of the terrorist. It offers them a totally different side of world affairs: one that rejoices in the diversity of peoples, cultures and beliefs; one that at all times seeks the consensus that comes out of dialogue and negotiation; and one where informed direction is given to the great changes that are sweeping through all societies — in other words, the bright side of international affairs lit by a beacon of hope. That is how we see this Organization. We want our regional efforts to help fuel this beacon. We want them to complement the work of the United Nations. So, put simply, we see only one permanent agenda item here: How can the world body give hope and purpose to the lives of every family in every community in each of its 190 Member nations? That is why we strongly support the efforts being made by the Secretary-General to express our purpose in that way, not in the language of confrontation that was heard throughout the last century or in the appalling vocabulary of terrorism, but in the human terms offered at the Millennium Summit. In short, our hopes include an end to historical injustices, especially those which our brothers in Palestine continue to suffer, and a determined effort to help communities earn a good living in a responsible manner. Those were the basic hopes I believe we all had at the turn of the century. We do not wish to see them set aside. So we appeal to all our fellow Members to make sure they are not forgotten. We urge everyone to use the mechanisms we have here to that end. Whenever there are grave threats to international peace, we are confident that the members of the Security Council will guide us well. We acknowledge the vital role they have in ensuring that international principles are upheld by every Member. In this, they have our full support, and we will contribute to their work in whatever way we can. But the Council is still only one part of the work of the United Nations. There are many other tasks: above all, the peaceful work that binds all our layers of cooperation together. We do not wish to see the Organization's attention directed solely towards the dark side of international life. Building a secure framework for international cooperation involves a long, consistent and comprehensive process. Like any process, it has to be constantly refined. We accept this. We do not feel, however, that the events of the past year mean that it has to be abandoned and redesigned. In saying this, I believe we share the deepest hopes of all developing nations.  ﻿First of all I wish to thank the President of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the masterful way in which he accomplished his work. I would also like to thank the members of his Bureau. Significant progress was made during the session we recently finished. One item in particular concerns us as it involves the conduct and revitalization of our proceedings. Secondly, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the decision of the Secretary-General to appoint, as of 12 September 2002, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello to succeed Her Excellency Mrs. Mary Robinson as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. My Government has always appreciated Mrs. Robinson's wholehearted commitment and knows it can count on Mr. Vieira de Mello, who has many times shown his competence and his dedication to the Organization, to show just as much commitment in promoting and protecting human rights. I am very pleased at the outset of the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency both on my own account and on behalf of the highest authorities of my country, as well as to congratulate all the members of the Bureau. I pledge the full support and cooperation of the delegation of Monaco to help them complete their important work. One year ago, an attack, as vile as it was cowardly, struck the United States of America. That day its instigators and perpetrators placed themselves not only outside of the law, but outside humanity, outside of the universal fundamental values and principles that inspire our nations and guide the ethical, political, economic and social progress of States. That wanton act provoked an unprecedented reaction from the international community. It unanimously gave the members of the Security Council and the General Assembly sophisticated means to fight terrorism in all its forms, including by cutting off its financial resources. The Principality of Monaco participated in this fight with determination in response to requests by the Security Council and its Counter-Terrorism Committee. In broadening information exchange with other States, both bilaterally and multilaterally, we established or strengthened monitoring and surveillance measures which were necessary in the of legislative, regulatory, and judicial spheres. On 10 November 2001 I personally signed the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, which entered into force in Monaco on 8 April 2002, and our Permanent Representative to the United Nations, on instructions from my father, the Sovereign Prince, signed on 24 June 2002 Protocol Against the Illicit Manufacturing of Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. The Principality of Monaco, in fact, is or will be a party to all major universal and regional instruments designed to strengthen cooperation among nations to fight against terrorism. This has greatly enhanced our cooperation with other States. In that regard I must make reference to a law which was adopted unanimously last June by our National Council, the parliament of Monaco, and which entered into force on 8 August 2002. This law amends, strengthens and supplements the existing law on the involvement of financial entities in the fight against money-laundering and financing terrorism. The text takes into account Monaco's undertakings as a United Nations Member State as well as measures anticipated by competent bodies such as the Financial Action Task Force. Also on 8 August 2002, the authorities of my country were happy to have implemented the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime, even though the Principality of Monaco, while fervently hoping to be so, is not yet a member of that noble European institution. I also wish to note the speed and relevance of my country's response, especially since 8 our country is sometimes subjected to unjustified and incorrect criticism in this area. While terrorist threats persist and while civilian populations continue, unfortunately, to be subjected to the yoke of terror, the origin and form of this plague seem now to be better understood and under greater control. Measures, both national and international, have been implemented with the help of the Security Council and its Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) and seem to be yielding encouraging results. The strengthening and broadening of the mandate of the Terrorism Prevention Branch, as the Secretary-General has proposed in the report requested by our Assembly, seems to meet all of the conditions we need to upgrade the fight against terrorism, not only by allowing us to bolster cooperation among United Nations Member States, but also by providing enhanced technical assistance to countries that ask for it. Thanks to a prompt and effective international reaction, Afghanistan, for too long a home to terrorists, has regained its freedom. Its new provisional Government, which emerged from the traditional assembly, the Loya Jerga, last June, has endeavoured, particularly with the help of our Organization, to rebuild the country and to establish a democratic political regime. We wish it full success. Another area of satisfaction on the part of the international community is the nuclear disarmament agreement that was adopted last May by the two great Powers, the United States of America and the Russian Federation. Other events in the world are also hopeful. The Republic of Sierra Leone and the Republic of Angola are taking steps towards recovery in a peaceful and democratic spirit. Encouraging signs of hope are seen everywhere. In Africa, we again fervently hope for the success of the peace initiatives in Burundi and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). A calming of the situation in the Sudan is also of great interest to us. The Organization of African Unity (OAU), which became the African Union last July, has played an invaluable role in reinforcing harmony between African peoples. We are following this undertaking with intense interest, as it took on a new dimension this year. We take this opportunity to address to His Excellency, Mr. Amara Essy, Interim Chairperson of the Commission of the African Union, our sincere congratulations and encouragements. In Latin America, we see with hope that some countries, whose economic and financial conditions were once in bad shape, are in the process of recovery, thanks in particular to the help of international financial institutions. In Asia, finally, the prudence shown by the leaders of India and Pakistan over the border disputes has led to the reduction of tension in Kashmir. We are sincerely grateful for this. This is an excellent step, similarly to the one taken by Sri Lanka, which has renewed the dialogue with the Tamil separatists so as to put an end to too much suffering. Another source of satisfaction is Timor-Leste, which with the effective and valuable help of our Organization was able to successfully achieve independence and acquire political and financial structures that are crucial to its development. We are therefore happy to welcome very soon, the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste to the United Nations. We are also quite happy to welcome the admission of the Swiss Confederation as a Member State. Switzerland has always been, particularly since the creation of the League of Nations in Geneva, a steadfast participant in the international promotion of peace, human rights and humanitarian protection. Our congratulations and wishes for success and prosperity are formulated to those two States, to their leaders and to their people. The United Nations needs them more than ever now, and also needs all the good will and talent possible to meet the high ambitions that we set for ourselves when the Organization was created, ambitions renewed firmly and solemnly at the Millennium Summit, as well as during the large international meetings that followed. My country is committed to implementing the action plans adopted during those exceptional meetings. Our special session on children and the second World Assembly on Ageing have tangibly changed the perception that the international community had of children and seniors. Both must become actors who are more integrated and active within our societies. While deciding to increase its voluntary contributions to the large programmes of the United Nations aimed at development and the protection of the environment, the Government of Monaco has at the 9 same time decided to concentrate its efforts on specific areas and specific regions. The Mediterranean region is an example of our fight against marine pollution that aims to save regional flora and fauna. My Government, whether through its Office for International Cooperation for Development and the Environment, or through non-governmental organizations (NGOs), which are numerous and active in Monaco, is encouraging the implementation of specific projects, projects that are essentially ecological in nature, depending often on the availability of micro-credits. As regards the Mediterranean Sea, next 10 December we will be celebrating the twentieth anniversary of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). It was indeed on 10 December 1982 that that text was open for ratification by States at Montego Bay in Jamaica. It was the result of almost 15 years of negotiations, which we will solemnly celebrate on this coming occasion. There are particularly difficult times, such as the present moment, when the status quo is not good enough, times when we must show determination in order to bring innovative ideas to meet the fundamental changes going on throughout the world. The Secretary- General, whose dynamic nature and wisdom we appreciate, mentions this in his report on the follow-up to the major conferences organized by the United Nations at different summits, including the Millennium Summit. The report is important and timely. The substantive session of the Economic and Social Council in July also confirmed the need for such steps. The Ministerial Declaration, adopted on that occasion, focuses usefully on the importance of developing human resources, protecting health, and providing education, particularly for young girls, and focuses on their contributions to development. I would like to commend the President and the Bureau of the Council. His Excellency Mr. Ivan Simonović, its President and the Permanent Representative of Croatia, and the other Members of the Bureau have all toiled with competence and great skill in order to guarantee the success of the Council's work. During the high-level debates, some trends emerged that our Government believes are essential. For example, there is the choice of a governance that allows us to establish true partnerships that depend mostly on the human resources of developing countries themselves, as well as on businesses and civil society. Yesterday's high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly produced solemn and excellent results and enabled us to gain a better understanding of the character and the imperatives of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), which undoubtedly offers real prospects for mobilizing resources for Africa and integrating it into the world economy. The establishment by the Economic and Social Council of an ad hoc advisory group for African countries emerging from conflict is a step that we are also following. Without political stability, there can be no guaranteed sustainable development. The concept of a culture of protection' advanced by the Secretary-General, with regard to special economic assistance, humanitarian aid, and help in natural disasters, provides the advantage of associating in a single thrust preventive action and priority assistance to the communities affected. We appreciate the principle and the scope of this activity. In the aftermath of conflicts and crises, the link between humanitarian action and long-term developments is crucial for the success of any national reconstruction programme. Public meetings of the Security Council dedicated to such matters provide an opportunity to emphasize, with the necessary impact, the importance of such measures. The World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD), which has just finished in Johannesburg and in which I participated, reminded us of the essential concerns for the future. The Monterrey consensus was confirmed, stressing the fact that there can now be no stable and balanced development without serious interdisciplinary thought and innovative ideas based on a genuine will to protect our environment and to respect the natural resources of our planet, including sea resources and non-renewable natural resources, by ensuring that we share them fairly and reasonably. The Summit confirmed and strengthened the principles proclaimed 10 years ago during the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held at Rio. I will not reiterate my country's positions and initiatives on these questions, as I discussed them at length at Johannesburg. I should like to reaffirm, however, that the Government of the Principality of 10 Monaco is determined to respect the commitments it undertook on that occasion. The international community must continue to work tirelessly in the combat against AIDS and in the fight against many endemic diseases, which, in some parts of the world, are major obstacles to development and progress. In response to the appeal launched by our Secretary-General, my Government has decided this year and for the next two years to make a substantial exceptional contribution to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS. If we want globalization, in particular economic globalization, to be of benefit to all, it will have to be rooted to a greater extent and we all are aware of this in a type of development that ignores neither the basic needs of human beings nor the values of justice, morality and equity, to which we all attach particular value. In speaking of the fundamental principle of justice and of the moral values which have inspired our Organization so profoundly, I should like to reiterate how warmly we welcomed the recent entry into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The first Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute has just been held, under the eminent presidency of His Royal Highness Prince Zeid Ra'ad Zeid Al-Hussein, Permanent Representative of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Decisive and specific steps were taken on that occasion. I should like to close by appealing to the peoples of Israel and Palestine to put an end to the violence and to overcome their rancour and resentments. A shared heritage and the belief in a future of coexistence represent the underpinnings of a dialogue leading to peace. ﻿I am honoured and gratified once again to take the floor before the Assembly, to which I extend the most cordial greetings on behalf of the Congolese people, its Government and on my own behalf. First and foremost, allow me, Sir, to congratulate you very sincerely, along with the whole of your Bureau, on your election to the presidency of the fifty- seventh regular session of the General Assembly. I wish also to convey to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, our great appreciation for the extremely important work that he accomplished during his term in office. Allow me also to welcome the accession to the United Nations of the Swiss Confederation and of Timor-Leste as Member States. Lastly, allow me to thank the Secretary-General for his dedication to universal values and for his active involvement in the quest for solutions to the conflicts besetting humankind. At a time when the whole world is remembering the fateful date of 11 September 2001, the Congolese people, its Government and I myself wish to take this opportunity to convey once again our solidarity and our compassion to the American people and to the grieving families around the world who were victimized in this heinous act of terrorism. This is indeed an appropriate setting in which to urge all peace-loving and justice-loving States in the world to commit to working together to combat this evil in all its forms. For its part, as I had announced in my address to the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, my Government, on 21 December 2001, established a national coordinating committee to combat international terrorism, pursuant to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). The first part of my statement will focus on the status of the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Externally speaking, it should be noted that, faced with obstruction to the implementation of the Lusaka 2 Agreement as regards the withdrawal of foreign forces, my Government, basing itself on the relevant provisions of the Security Council that encourage bilateral discussions, has entered into the Pretoria Agreement with Rwanda on the one hand, with the facilitation of South Africa and the assistance of the United Nations, and, on the other hand, it has signed the Luanda Agreement with Uganda, under the sponsorship of Angola. The Pretoria Agreement, signed on 30 July 2002, essentially addresses the question of the withdrawal of Rwandan troops from the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the disarmament of the former Rwandan Army (ex-FAR) forces and the Interahamwe. The Luanda Agreement, signed on 6 September 2002, deals with the issue of the complete withdrawal of Ugandan troops from the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as with cooperation and the normalization of relations between our two States. Almost 45 days have passed since the signing of the Pretoria Agreement — half of the time period set by the timetable for its implementation — without any significant progress having been made on the ground. The commitment undertaken yesterday by the President of Rwanda to begin the withdrawal of troops as from next week may mark a decisive phase in the implementation of the Pretoria Agreement. For its part, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, consistent with the commitments that it has undertaken, had already assembled at Kamina more than 2,000 Rwandan ex- combatants, who are awaiting repatriation to Rwanda. Furthermore, it has notified the third party, as of 5 September 2002, about additional information concerning Rwandan ex-combatants. With regard to the Luanda Agreement, it should be noted that the withdrawal of Ugandan troops has begun and that a joint peacemaking programme has been set up in the Ituri region. The successful implementation of the Pretoria and Luanda Agreements, in particular with respect to the withdrawal of Rwandan and Ugandan troops, will have a clear impact on the conclusion of a comprehensive and inclusive agreement in the context of the domestic political process aimed at national reconciliation and the reunification of the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with a view to the prompt holding of free, democratic and transparent elections at all levels. Following consultations with various political and social groups, as well as with the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, my Government suggested that arrangements for the signing of an inclusive agreement could begin at an early date. I would like now to turn to the particular and worrying situation that prevails in the eastern part of my country. I am referring to the bloody and distressing events that took place in Kisangani and Bunia; the resumed fighting in the Kivu region; the rapes; the plundering of the wealth of the Democratic Republic of the Congo; and all the other human rights violations that have taken place. I also have in mind the appalling destruction of fauna, flora and the ecosystem in general in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I urgently appeal to the international community to put an end to this tragic situation, which is afflicting the people of the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and to ensure that the perpetrators of these vile and barbaric acts are punished and brought to justice. Likewise, we look forward eagerly to the conclusions of the Panel of Experts, which we hope will be accompanied by proposals for sanctions to be imposed on those who are plundering the resources of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This is the bleak situation that has been prevailing in my country for more than four years; the socio-economic situation of the people has deteriorated as a result of the war, which has deprived my Government of more than half of its resources. In order to deal with this economic disaster and to alleviate the suffering of our people as much as possible, a number of measures been in place for more than a year. The tangible effects of these positive measures include the stabilization of our currency and of the price of major consumer goods, as well as the resumption of cooperation with international financial institutions. In the same spirit, a large-scale national reconstruction programme is under way, aimed at the rehabilitation of the basic social infrastructure so as to promote the recovery of the economy and the process of development. 3 I have condemned the terrorism and the tragic events of 11 September 2001, which plunged the American people and all of humankind into mourning. I have provided an updated review of the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in particular with regard to the Pretoria and Luanda Agreements. I have expressed my grave concern about the disturbing humanitarian situation prevailing in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which is characterized by massacres and massive violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. I have also pointed to the particularly difficult socio- economic situation affecting the population of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, noting that it has been aggravated by war and its adverse effects. If the war persists, the Government's efforts to achieve economic recovery may well be completely nullified. In order to put an end to this protracted tragedy, I earnestly appeal, through this Assembly, to the entire international community, to mobilize and become more deeply involved in the quest for solutions to bring about the reunification of our national territory and to return peace and stability to my country and to the whole of the Great Lakes region. I would like to make several specific points. First, I believe that a conference should be held, under the auspices of the United Nations, on peace, security and development in the Great Lakes region. My country's desire, in keeping with its African tradition, has always been to live in peace and harmony with all the States of Africa and of the world, beginning with its neighbours. Secondly, the international community should be more actively involved in resolving the conflict that is tearing the Democratic Republic of the Congo apart. It is clear today that the international community seems to be forgetting the role played by Africa in the development of today's wealthy States, and is showing a degree of indifference to African issues. Thirdly, the large number of Security Council resolutions which have, to date, remained unimplemented. Fourthly, I am thinking of technical contributions and the mobilization of the international community to rehabilitate our ecosystem, so as to preserve this heritage of humankind. The founding fathers of our universal Organization, who were convinced that nations could be brought together only through peaceful settlements of conflict, signed the Charter in order to ensure that no armed conflict would be a matter of indifference to the remainder of humanity. For this reason, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which believes deeply in the universal values championed by the United Nations, expresses the hope that all the organs of the United Nations will play their role to the fullest to ensure that we may silence weapons wherever they are being used, in order to make peace a genuine right within the grasp of all of us. ﻿I am pleased to open my statement by extending warm congratulations to you, Sir, and to your friendly country, the Czech Republic, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. We wish you success at the helm of this Assembly, which is convened against a backdrop of complex circumstances and daunting global challenges. Let me assure you of my delegation's full commitment to cooperating with you in order to facilitate the fulfilment of your mandate. I wish to extend a word of thanks and tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his prudent and efficient stewardship of the previous session. In the same vein, I wish to reiterate our appreciation for the outstanding performance of Secretary-General Kofi Annan and for his tireless and concrete efforts to enhance the effectiveness of the world Organization in serving global peace, security and development. Kuwait welcomes the admission of the Swiss Confederation to the membership of our Organization. We are confident that Switzerland's membership will enhance the benefits of its already active role in supporting various United Nations programmes and activities and will further consolidate the principles and purposes of the Charter, particularly as that country is host to many United Nations bodies and specialized agencies. The events of 11 September 2001 in the United States, together with their consequences and implications, have changed the global landscape and have created a multitude of new challenges for the entire world, as we are now collectively entrenched in our fight against terrorism, violence and extremism. Experience has shown that combating this pernicious phenomenon is a universal responsibility and that no individual country alone, irrespective of its resources or determination, can eliminate it. Moral and practical reasons make it unacceptable to link that curse to any particular nation, religion or culture. Such an attempt does not serve any of our common goals. To the contrary, it will deepen political and cultural divides, exacerbate the crisis and transform it into a conflict among civilizations that harms us all and from which we have nothing to gain. Therefore, the United Nations remains the most appropriate and effective mechanism for studying and analysing that phenomenon, so as to identify its causes and parameters and to coordinate efforts with a view to developing guidelines for effective measures to eradicate that plague. The United Nations is also the appropriate body to define our responsibilities and obligations in that regard. The signing, ratification and scrupulous enforcement by all Member States of the 12 United Nations instruments aimed at combating terrorism are perhaps the most viable means for establishing a solid common ground to combat and conquer terrorism. In that context, I wish to take this opportunity to express once again our condolences and sympathy to the friendly people and Government of the United States and to the families of all the victims of that heinous act of terrorism. We share with them their anguish and the hope that their fortitude will help them overcome their pain and loss. In the meantime, Kuwait reaffirms its longstanding core position condemning all acts of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We also categorically renounce all acts of violence and extremism, as they contravene not only international norms and treaties but also the tolerant teachings of Islam and its compassionate value system, as well as other religions, humanitarian concepts and civilized values. 12 Kuwait welcomes Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) within the context of Kuwait's cooperation with the ongoing international efforts to fight terrorism and, pursuant to its provisions, has put a number of important new steps and measures into effect. They include the enactment of a bill to combat money laundering and the adoption of practical measures to regulate fund-raising activities in order to ensure that those activities are not exploited or illegally used for any objective other than their legitimate and declared intent. Furthermore, for its part, Kuwait has answered all the queries of the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Committee. We have provided to the Committee all the information and notations that clarify our national laws and legislation enacted by the Government to combat terrorist acts and to prosecute their perpetrators. Within the same context and in order to consolidate world efforts in combating terrorism, I wish to reiterate Kuwait's support for the idea of convening an international conference under the auspices of the United Nations aimed at reaching an agreement on a clear and specific definition of terrorism. The primary purpose of that aim is to distinguish between terrorism as a phenomenon that endangers international peace and security and the right of peoples to legitimate struggle in resisting foreign occupation in order to attain their rights to self- determination, as set forth in the Charter and in international law. In this regard, Kuwait condemns the insidious campaign orchestrated against our sister State, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, by certain American and Western media sectors. For our part, however, we pay tribute to the Kingdom for its valuable role and significant contributions to the fight against terrorism and to efforts to achieve peace and security in the region. The success of our global efforts to eradicate terrorism depends in large measure on the ability of the international community to effectively address major issues and challenges that have become a source of despair, misery, frustration, isolation and perceived injustice felt by a number of people in all parts of the world. An elusive challenge that continues to stand out is the constant deterioration of the situation in the occupied Palestinian territories. The escalating confrontations have reached a level that threatens peace and security in the Middle East region as a whole. The brutal practices of the Israeli occupation forces, including the unwarranted excessive use of force against the Palestinian people, the deliberate destruction of the institutions and infrastructure of the Palestinian Authority, in clear violation of United Nations resolutions and the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949, have resulted in exacerbating the economic and social crises sustained by the Palestinians for more than five decades. Large-scale round-ups, house demolitions, curfews, bombardment of civilian neighbourhoods, incursions into villages, town and cities and helicopter gunship assaults on civilians have become daily events for the individual Palestinian citizen on the street. Indeed, those acts have become routine stories in radio and television news. We have silently resigned ourselves to that. It seems that the international community has been numbed into accepting that way of life for defenceless Palestinians. But unfortunately all Israeli practices seem to be emanating from an entrenched precept that Israel is immune to all accountability, exempted from all jurisdictions and shielded from all criticism and condemnation by the United Nations or the world's major Powers. Against that background, Kuwait reaffirms its commitment to the pan-Arab position adopted at the recent Beirut Arab Summit, which endorsed the initiative put forward by His Royal Highness Prince Abdullah Bin Abdel Aziz, Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia and Chief of the Saudi National Guard. Kuwait remains committed to supporting the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and to the establishment of their independent State on their national territory with Jerusalem as their capital. Kuwait will continue to demand full Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Arab territories, including the Syrian Golan and Lebanese territory. World history and experience have amply demonstrated that force alone, regardless of the degree of brutality, will not bring about peace and security. The only viable option is restoring legitimate rights to their rightful owners and implementing peace. Perhaps the best assurance for a secure future requires long- term good-will investments in the present. Kuwait welcomed with satisfaction the decision adopted by the most recent Arab summit, held in Lebanon in March 2002, on the situation between Iraq 13 and Kuwait. In that decision, the Arab leaders welcomed Iraq's pledges to respect the independence, sovereignty, security and territorial integrity of the State of Kuwait and to avert any action that might lead to the recurrence of the events of 1990. Arab leaders also demanded that Iraq cooperate in finding an expeditious and final solution to the question of Kuwaiti prisoners and hostages and the return of stolen Kuwaiti property as set forth in relevant Security Council resolutions. But, to our deep regret, that decision has not been implemented. The Government of Iraq has not as yet carried out its pledges, especially in regard to Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners and detainees. That long-running humanitarian question can bear no further delay in view of its traumatic implications for the families of the victims, who do not know the fate of their loved ones. The Iraqi Government continues to refuse to cooperate with the United Nations mechanisms established to deal with the matter. Assessing the approach followed by the Iraqi Government, the Secretary-General concluded in the final paragraph of his most recent report to the Security Council pursuant to paragraph 14 of Council resolution 1284 (1999), contained in document S/2002/931 of 15 August 2002, that Despite the encouraging agreements at the Arab Summit in Beirut, Iraq's words on the fate of the missing persons are yet to be matched by tangible deeds. There still is a window of opportunity to address humanitarian issues, such as that of missing persons, in good faith. Iraq should use this opportunity to restore its credibility on the outstanding humanitarian issues.' (para. 40) In that context, Kuwait welcomes the efforts and steps undertaken by the United Nations in preparation for the return of Kuwait's State archives from Iraq pursuant to relevant Security Council resolutions. Despite the fact that Iraq has denied over the past 11 years that it had seized the archives, we consider its acknowledgement that it holds the archives and its intention to return them to be an important step towards carrying out Security Council resolutions, particularly resolutions 686 (1991), 687 (1991) and 1284 (1999). Irrespective of Iraq's motives for returning the archives and other Kuwaiti State documents, it is our hope that this step will be followed by other positive actions leading to the release of our prisoners and those of third countries. Only then can this dossier be closed. I wish to stress here that the humanitarian issue of our prisoners has dominated the national agenda of the Government and the people of Kuwait since liberation. Regarding other relevant issues, Kuwait has welcomed the dialogue between the United Nations and Iraq, and we hope that this exercise will lead to the implementation of the rest of the key obligations, including the elimination of weapons of mass destruction and other outstanding matters. Kuwait thinks that Iraq's strict and scrupulous implementation of all relevant Security Council resolutions and the admission of United Nations weapons inspectors back into Iraq would spare our region the horrors of a war which we do not want. Such a war would only lead to the exacerbation of the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq and to the escalation of tension and instability in the region. Kuwait also welcomes the prudent approach outlined by President George Bush of the United States in his statement before the General Assembly yesterday, in which he requested the Security Council to fulfil its legal and political responsibilities within the context of relevant Council resolutions regarding Iraq. The Security Council undoubtedly has the power to do so. We call upon the Security Council to perform that legitimate role. Meanwhile, we demand that Iraq fully and strictly implement all relevant Security Council resolutions in the interest of security and stability in the region and in order to avert the dangers it faces. Because of its keen interest in maintaining and bolstering security and stability in our region, the State of Kuwait emphasizes again its support for all efforts to resolve by peaceful means the disagreement between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran over the disputed islands. In that context, we welcome the mutual visits by ranking officials of both countries. We hope that such visits and direct contacts will help the parties to create a favourable climate for confidence-building between the two countries. The world economic landscape has been quite turbulent over the past year. Reports issued by numerous specialized international institutions show that many countries, including some developed countries, have begun to suffer from a global economic slowdown. That in turn has led to mounting economic 14 and social burdens on many States due to growing imbalances and disparities between the economies of countries of the North and those of the South. While the countries of the North continue to enjoy economic prosperity and better standards of living for their peoples, countries of the South continue to suffer from poverty, famine, unemployment, environmental degradation, severe shortages of drinking water and widespread pandemics such as those of HIV/AIDS and malaria, in addition to a whole range of other problems that impede their efforts towards sustainable development. It is our hope that the decisions and plans of action recently adopted at the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg in August and September, and at the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Mexico in February, will help bolster efforts and strengthen bonds of cooperation between the North and the South with a view to laying the underpinnings of a new partnership that contributes to the stabilization and growth of economic relations and to establishing the basis for an equitable world trade system that sets out the responsibilities and obligations of all sides. Perhaps one of the most pressing demands at present to shore up the economic structures of the developing countries is that the developed nations fulfil their obligation to provide meaningful financial and technical aid to the developing world. That includes bilateral arrangements and understandings with international financial institutions and organizations to alleviate the debt burden of developing countries and the cancellation of the debts of the poorest nations. Also, any tariffs or other obstacles to access for the products of those countries to developed countries' markets should be removed. Furthermore, developing countries should have easier access to information and technologies that would help them solve their problems and became integrated into the world economy. Such steps would prevent the marginalization of the developing countries and least developed countries and would help put them back on the road to development. In this regard, Kuwait draws satisfaction from the fact that it tops the list of Arab States on the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Arab human development index for the current year. The Arab Human Development Report was published by the UNDP in cooperation with the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development. The report drew on a whole range of indices including health, education, acquisition of technical knowledge and per capita income. The Government of Kuwait will be guided by the report's indicators and, in cooperation with our National Assembly, which is the legislative authority in our country, will maintain its efforts to improve economic and social conditions to the benefit of Kuwaiti citizens and their well-being. I wish to place on record our sense of pride in carrying out all our international obligations. In particular, Kuwait is a robust contributor to the development programmes of many developing nations. Furthermore, we are a vibrant player in ensuring a stable and balanced global oil market with a view to ensuring equitable and universal economic development. Also, in line with its Arab and Islamic heritage and given the imperatives of kinship, Kuwait has never hesitated to reach out to meet its full official and unofficial obligations towards the Palestinian people in the Palestinian territories and towards the people of Afghanistan. It is now our hope that the Afghan people, following the recent developments in their country, will be able to live in security and stability after their long and deep suffering due to war and internal conflict. Let us hope that the country will now channel all its resources into national reconstruction in order to make up for those long years of conflict and hostilities. Inasmuch as the peoples of the world differ in their religion, culture and ethnicity, they are similar in their aspirations, ambitions and hopes. We all seek to live in freedom, dignity and safety. We all yearn for a world in which peace, security and justice prevail. Translating that vision and hope into reality requires accelerating the pace of concerted global action to meet the lofty purposes and principles defined in the Charter of the United Nations. In addition, the United Nations Millennium Summit Declaration must be translated into a concrete reality that satisfies the hopes and aspirations of the peoples of the world. We as countries believe that ultimately we all are accountable to Allah, His name be praised and glorified, the Creator of the universe. We are also accountable to our peoples in terms of fulfilling their legitimate aspirations in a world of prevailing security and peace. ﻿The Madagascar delegation, which I have the honour of leading for the first time at this session of the General Assembly, is delighted to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his well-deserved election to the presidency of this session, and we wish him every success. To his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, we express our most sincere appreciation for having led the fifty-sixth session to a successful conclusion through dedication and skilful leadership. The dedication of our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to the attainment of the objectives of the United Nations deserves our full appreciation and gratitude. The admission of the Swiss Confederation as a new Member of the United Nations is for Madagascar a source of profound satisfaction. This friendly country is a living example of a peaceful and multicultural society based on values of democracy and freedom. Here today, in the framework of the commemoration of the tragic events of 11 September 2001, we wish to express our solidarity with the people and the Government of the United States. We reiterate our condemnation of such terrorist acts, whose consequences are incalculable. A global phenomenon without borders, terrorism is considered to be the most dangerous enemy of the new millennium. It can be eradicated only through harmonious international cooperation. In this regard, we wish to pay tribute here to the efforts of the United Nations, acting through the Counter-Terrorism Committee created by the Security Council, for the implementation of Council resolution 1373 (2001), and we commend all other regional initiatives adopted to combat this plague. To fight terrorism, countries such as ours will need special technical assistance in order to implement this resolution of the United Nations, as well as other international treaties. The persistence of areas of tension and conflict around the world, especially the Middle East, demands the reinvigoration of the United Nations to make it more effective in responding to the needs of the international community, particularly in maintaining international peace and security. To pursue this critical objective, we must now more than ever strengthen our efforts to make the Security Council more democratic, more representative and more transparent. There is no doubt that the United Nations provides us with the ideal framework for creating conditions that encourage States and peoples to choose peace over war. In this regard, Madagascar wishes to congratulate Timor-Leste on its independence after a valiant and heroic struggle by the people of that 13 country and successful efforts by the United Nations to re-establish peace there. Furthermore, Madagascar encourages the mediation efforts undertaken by the United Nations for the settlement of conflicts in a number of countries throughout Africa. In this context, I wish to reiterate the profound gratitude of the Malagasy people for the role the United Nations agreed to play in resolving the post-election dispute that threatened Madagascar. This crisis is now over and Madagascar is now experiencing a new era full of hope. We are convinced that sustainable development requires the consolidation of the rule of law and the establishment of good governance. Towards this end, the new Government is taking all appropriate measures for the sound and rational management of public finances and of international assistance. Madagascar has given the fight against corruption the very highest priority. We have also taken the initiative to insure that an effective policy is developed and applied in order to tackle this evil on all fronts. Madagascar supports General Assembly resolution 55/61, through which our General Assembly decided to create an ad hoc committee entrusted with negotiating a future legal instrument against corruption. Our country is awaiting the conclusion of such an instrument in the near future, in order to fill the gaps in its own legal system. We look forward with considerable interest to the high- level Conference in Mexico in 2003 for signing a convention against corruption. The rapid and sustainable development of Madagascar is the major and fundamental objective of the present Government, in order to extract the country from the scourge of poverty, a source of instability that erodes democratic values. In this context, Madagascar is committed to a pro-active policy aimed at recovery for rapid and sustainable growth of its economy, in which the private sector will be the driving force. As we see it, the key to development is partnership between the public sector and the private sector, in which the Government works together with private companies and non-governmental organizations solely for the benefit of the people. We invite private businesses to invest in Madagascar. The returns on those investments will be beneficial both to them and to the Malagasy people. As an essential component of development and of peace, education is our priority of priorities. Malagasy children will live fully in the world of the twenty-first century, which is characterized by advanced technology of information and communications. Thus, Madagascar welcomes the adoption of Assembly resolution 56/258 calling for a World Summit on the Information Society to be held in 2003 and in 2005. The world community will then have a unique opportunity to discuss information and develop the opportunities offered by digital technologies, in particular in Africa and in the least developed countries. The Republic of Madagascar is ready to do everything in its power to put the country back on the path of development. This will be done with the support of the international community in the framework of mutually advantageous cooperation. I take this opportunity to express our gratitude and our appreciation to all of Madagascar's development partners, bilateral, regional and multi- lateral, for their valuable contribution to the re- launching of economic activity in our country. Faced with multiple challenges in our era, a time dominated by poverty and underdevelopment, international cooperation is no longer a choice; it is an absolute necessity for the survival of humanity. Those factors that diminish us as human beings: poverty, HIV/AIDS, famine and illiteracy, cannot be eliminated without a true spirit of solidarity, guaranteeing a better future for all people. Let us not forget that the preamble of our Charter announces a new humanity with peoples and human beings living in dignity and security. Towards that end, they must have access to fundamental human rights, the right to health care, the right to education and to culture, and the right to a decent income. Our mission, to reduce poverty everywhere in the world, has become today more important and more urgent than ever before. The slowdown in economic activity, on a global scale, following the attacks of 11 September 2001, has worsened impoverishment and plunged millions of individuals into a state of dire need. In this grim context, globalization could play a vital role in the fight against poverty, as long as the countries of the north and the south are offered the same opportunities of development. In order for globalization to truly benefit humankind, it must take into consideration the interests 14 of all countries the world over, in an international economy of sharing. Global interdependence and better international economic cooperation must be entirely accepted, if we are to obtain the objectives of the Millennium Declaration. A collective awareness to develop a real partnership for development is indispensable in order to make a reality of that objective. In this spirit, Madagascar welcomes the consensus reached at the International Conference On Financing For Development, which was held in Monterrey. In the same context, Madagascar urges the international community to give firm and concrete support to the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), and to give that support both bilaterally and multilaterally. With the objective of giving an important role to the private sector in development, Madagascar fully and without reserve supports the principles and objectives underlying NEPAD. In the coming months, I intend to make Madagascar one of the leading countries of NEPAD, because I am sincerely committed to good governance, the development of infrastructures and energy, education, new technologies, access to the markets of developed countries and the protection of the environment. The alarming conclusions of a United Nations Environment Programme report entitled Africa Environment Outlook', as well as the recent weather- related disasters in Central Europe and Asia, require the international community to develop a new code of ethics for the conservation and effective protection of the environment. Our Government will make the protection of our precious environment one of our main priorities. Furthermore, Madagascar hopes that the Summit on Sustainable Development held in Johannesburg a few days ago will give new impetus to our collective determination to offer all countries an opportunity to develop in a way that benefits their inhabitants, their environment and our shared heritage, the Earth. By some standards, Madagascar is a poor country. However, it is rich in unique natural resources and in educated human resources. Above all, its population is attached to democracy, family values and belief in God. We would like today to express our desire to cooperate with the United Nations as a partner for the reconstruction of Madagascar. By working in partnership, we will ensure for our country a future of hope. The entire world will come to know us by our strengths, not our weaknesses. Working together with the United Nations family, Madagascar is ready to make its own contribution to building a global village in which all countries receive equal treatment and have equal opportunities for full development - an indispensable condition for the establishment of lasting peace. ﻿The world has changed since the Assembly last met. The twenty-first century began on 11 September 2001, and our great collective challenge is to ensure the primacy of the rule of law in the sphere of international relations. The natural forum for that legal culture and legitimacy is the United Nations. In that context and with that ambition, participating in the great objectives of peace, the rule of law and the preservation of the international order to which the Secretary-General referred during the current session it is an honour for me to address the Assembly on behalf of Spain, also a candidate for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council. Should we be elected, we are determined to devote all the effort and resources necessary to fulfil that great responsibility. A year ago, the entire world became aware of the horror of terrorism that threatens us all. We asked ourselves then what course the international community should take and what role the United Nations should play in shaping international relations in the twenty-first century. Uncertainty remains, but it is now clear that interdependence among countries and regions will be the centre of gravity of a newborn international civil society. States must cooperate with one another to make use of opportunities and to fight against threats, because neither opportunities nor threats have a purely local character. Thus, it is time for the rule of law, and the United Nations, as the seat of the political and normative legitimacy of international society, is called to be the centre of gravity of this new framework. The United Nations is the organization that can and should impose including through the use of force, if it is unavoidable the decisions taken collectively by the community of States. The occasions on which the United Nations has been able to respond to the demands of the international community have also been successes for the Member States. In the same way, the cases in which the United Nations has been unable to find solutions to existing problems have also been our responsibility. All of us make up the United Nations; its failures are our failures, as its successes are our successes. Terrorism is a clear example of this and of the need to react together resolutely. Each terrorist attack is an attack against us all, and we must all react. Terrorists do not respect borders; borders should therefore not constitute an obstacle to the collective fight against this scourge. Are there any today who still think that this problem does not, or will not, affect them? The United Nations is aware of the gravity of the threat that this scourge poses to the principles that underpin the Charter and that are the foundation of our civilization. Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) has put international cooperation against terrorism on a substantially different level. That resolution charts the course for the cooperation that is essential for the international community to be able to deal with those who attack our most essential values: life, freedom and democracy. The growing importance of law has a very direct bearing upon the intense activity of the Organization in favour of human rights. In this context, allow me to focus on a heinous and silent violation of human rights: domestic violence. This scourge primarily affects women, children and older persons the most vulnerable sectors of society in all our cultures, regardless of level of development or social well-being. How can we explain, shamefully ignore and, thus, in indirectly accept, that violence against women should today be the cause of more death and disability than cancer, traffic accidents or even war? Can we tolerate this situation? As a woman and as a human being, I say that the answer is an unambiguous no. In the same vein, the International Criminal Court is an essential legal instrument to ensure that the most serious violations of human rights do not go unpunished. With its subsidiary jurisdiction, the Court represents the most significant advance in the 16 structuring of the international community since the San Francisco Charter. In the framework of this reinvigoration of law, the Organization must pay special attention to challenges stemming from new technologies, in particular those associated with biotechnology. We do not want uncontrolled science with unclear objectives to determine the future shape of our societies, bringing to life the terrifying allegory of Aldous Huxley's Brave New World. Spain, which along with other countries of the European Union has ratified the Oviedo Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, a protocol to which bans cloning for research purposes, recalls the fact that article 11 of the Universal Declaration on The Human Genome and Human Rights, approved by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in 1997 and unanimously endorsed by the General Assembly in 1998, already bans human cloning for reproductive purposes. Therefore, it is necessary to go beyond that prohibition in a new convention. In spite of these encouraging results, underdevelopment, poverty, the existence of weapons of mass destruction and regional crises in particular the crisis in the Middle East constitute some of the outstanding tasks before us. Allow me briefly to review these issues in order, in the words of Pablo Neruda, not to fill our hearts with salt, but to walk in knowledge.' In the difficult struggle for development, we should all invest both our efforts and our hopes. In that regard, I would like to reiterate what was said yesterday with regard to the Monterrey and the Johannesburg summits and the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), for poverty is fought by recognizing human rights and freedoms and by promoting the rule of law. In mentioning development, I wish to stress once again the importance of women in the world. Their lagging behind, and their explicit or implicit secondary status their role in general are very often patently unfair. This situation is the source of the shortcomings of many societies. Let us recall that the advancement of women is not only an obvious right, it also likely represents the most effective and promising strategy to cope with the persistent nightmare of underdevelopment. In any case, poverty must be eradicated wherever it exists, both in the poorest countries as well as in middle-income countries, which are joining the global economy while undergoing fragile political and economic processes. Middle-income countries frequently have large pockets of poverty and are especially vulnerable to global economic swings. Latin America is a good example of a continent where in the last decade an important and successful effort has been made to put in place democratic regimes, foster economic growth and open up to the world economy. It is crucial to ensure continued international support when this process is threatened by temporary difficulties. Disarmament no doubt poses another challenge for all of us, notwithstanding the progress made in the areas of anti-personnel mines, small arms and chemical weapons. In this context, Spain is following with understandable concern the development of events regarding Iraq. For the sake of international security and stability and for the welfare of the Iraqi people, we hope that the announced immediate and unconditional return of arms inspectors in accordance with Security Council resolutions 687 (1991) and 1284 (1999) will become a reality. The Iraqi regime is currently flagrantly violating those resolutions. Arms inspections must be accompanied by Iraqi guarantees to the international community that it will destroy its weapons of mass destruction. That is the only possible path towards lifting the sanctions and normalizing Iraq's relations with the international community. If necessary, the international community must assume its responsibilities and ensure compliance with the resolutions adopted by the body that embodies international legitimacy. The citizens of our States fail to understand why some regional crisis continue indefinitely, causing despair among the peoples who suffer from them and generating a sense of injustice that fuels hatred and bitterness. Encouraging progress has undoubtedly been made, especially in Africa, and we spoke of that progress yesterday. But the Middle East crisis continues to be in all our minds. Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), and 1397 (2002), the principles of the Madrid Conference and the agreements between the parties have established a framework for peace between Israelis and Palestinians. How many Palestinians and Israelis will still have to die and how many 17 international resolutions will we need before Palestine and Israel can live together as States in peace and mutual respect? It is necessary to complete the peace process; that is the goal of the negotiating efforts of the Quartet, which Spain supports. We must counter these crises with our ability to carry out dialogue and negotiation. Spain has promoted integration mechanisms, particularly in the Mediterranean region through the Barcelona process. In that regard, Spain has always given special attention to its contacts with the Arab world, with which it maintains special relationships. In that context, I would like to make a brief reference to our relations with the Maghreb. Spain is among the Maghreb's foremost commercial partners, in addition to being one of the main investor countries there. Hundreds of thousands of citizens from Maghreb countries live in Spain, making up Spain's largest resident foreign community and contributing to the creation of wealth through their work and dynamism. Spain has therefore for many years made the Maghreb the main focus of its international cooperation policy. All of this means that maintaining strong and fruitful relations with Morocco is a strategic priority of Spanish foreign policy. The clearest expression of that priority is the treaty of friendship, cooperation and good-neighbourliness that exists between our countries. The Government of Spain wishes to promote relations in all areas and once again to place those relations on the level they deserve, given the proximity of our two peoples and the importance of our common interests. I am confident that my Moroccan colleague's next visit to Madrid will be a good opportunity to make progress along that path. In any case, I wish to clearly emphasize here today that the autonomous communities of Ceuta and Melilla are an integral part of Spain, on an equal footing with the rest of Spain's autonomous communities. They are therefore an integral part of the European Union. Their citizens are represented in the Spanish and European Parliaments, with the same standing and in the same manner as the rest of our citizens. The tasks before the Organization require that its mechanisms function adequately. Spain looks forward to the Secretary-General's forthcoming report on the reform of the Organization. We support in-depth reform of the Security Council that addresses all aspects of the matter. Before ending my statement, I cannot fail to mention the question of Gibraltar and the recurrent mandates of the General Assembly urging Spain and the United Kingdom to continue their bilateral negotiations to find a permanent solution to this dispute. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that during the past year the Governments of both countries have deployed intense negotiating efforts in this regard, and that we have made substantial progress. We intend to continue these negotiations in a constructive spirit so that as soon as possible we may reach a satisfactory and comprehensive agreement that takes into account the legitimate interests of the residents of the colony as well as the traditional United Nations doctrine with regard to Gibraltar, a doctrine confirmed year after year by the resolutions of both the General Assembly and the Special Committee of 24. Let us be clear: now, the beginning of the twenty-first century, is the time to resolve this question, in accordance with the relevant resolutions calling for the implementation of the principle of territorial integrity. For all of those reasons, we condemn attempts to interfere with the natural development of such negotiations, actions that openly and flagrantly violate that doctrine. I cannot conclude without giving a very warm welcome, and offering my country's cooperation, to Switzerland, as well as to the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, which will soon become a Member of the United Nations. Our meetings within this building give rise to many plans, ideas and, of course, words. But they also give rise to action. The action of the United Nations, as well as that of each of its Member States, must not be confined within these walls; millions of people depend on our ability to implement all that has been discussed here in order to enjoy a better life or simply to protect the life they have. Spain is fully aware of this responsibility and we are ready to work alongside other Members of the Organization so that words may be transformed into deeds, and deeds transformed into results.  ﻿Some 50 years ago my predecessor Paul-Henri Spaak said before the Assembly, in a phrase that stands out in our minds, “We are afraid”. At that time, totalitarianism threatened democratic freedoms and our open society was in danger. Fortunately, political and diplomatic dialogue gradually won out over confrontation, mutual threats and force. The advent of a freer world, more united and more respectful of everyone is finally within our grasp. After September 2001, all democratic forces throughout the world felt a moment of fear, terror, confusion and horror at the barbaric violence that smashed their strongest beliefs into pieces. That irrational hatred threatened the same democratic values, fundamental freedoms and humanistic world outlook. The free world came together with a sense of solidarity, compassion and survival. A coalition against that vile crime stood side by side with the people of the United States. We felt it was our duty; we felt that their suffering was our suffering and that their cause was also our cause. We could not permit there to be any doubt in the minds of the enemies of our shared values; we could not leave any scope for those who sought to break the promise of a world of justice, progress and peace. Today we must move beyond fear. Our response must be guided by clear-minded analysis and rational action. The enemy is faceless but is not everywhere. We all are now constantly vigilant, but must not reach the point of being unable to look one another in the eye without mistrust or suspicion. We are in an infinitely great majority; only an infinitesimal minority is against us. We cannot simply reduce the entire world to a battlefield. We cannot simply make a division between good and evil. To build a wall would be to fall into the trap of those who openly display their hate and intolerance. Instead, more than ever we must realize that the source of wealth and hope in the world is precisely its great diversity and pluralism. The struggle against terrorism must, of course, be based on effective methods with no room for laxity. I want to make this point very strongly: fighting terrorism must not lead us to distort the nature of democratic tolerant life or respect for the rule of law. Preserving our concept of a pluralist, open and tolerant society must be our goal. We cannot be misled or accept distortions of our firm belief in the fundamental human rights and the rights of peoples. Combating terrorism also means, above all, that we must defend the fundamental rights and legal protections of every man and woman. We have a humanist conviction and we must defend it, because otherwise we would be ceding victory to the terrorists. It would also be a 2 mistake to believe that the fight against terrorism can be won by military means alone. Military means are admittedly necessary, but are not themselves enough to put an end to this horrible phenomenon. There is absolutely nothing that can justify terrorism. No cause can justify terror. I categorically and definitively reject the idea that we have to look to the inequities of the world for the source of this perversion of the mind and soul. In my view, that would mitigate this abominable act. The origin of the attack cannot be found there. However, we also know that misery, injustice, poverty, exclusion and humiliation create fertile ground for extremism, intolerance and hatred to flourish by taking advantage of the hopelessness and suffering of those left behind by a society too quickly satisfied by its clear conscience. Why should we deny it? As our Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt has said, in less than a year we have focused at least four times on the challenges facing the world: at Doha, Monterrey, Rome and Johannesburg. The elimination of poverty, debt reduction and liberalization of international trade as a factor for development are all questions that have been repeatedly discussed. We all come to the same conclusions. We identify the same causes. I am certain that we all know the solutions that must be applied. With such unanimity, it should be easy to put an end to inequality. It should be easy to bring together a world which for too long has been cut in two, a world that generates tensions and frustrations. There cannot and should not be a superficial division at the margin of our wealth. We need a loftier conception of cooperation, one that derives not from paternalism but rather from partnership and mutual respect. Putting an end to inequality and forging a new solidarity is the way to ensure sustainable development for future generations. At each of our summits, the rich world has raised the hopes of the millions of indigent people who are searching for a glimmer of light in the darkness. However, each time, at the end of these grand meetings, when the speeches are over, when those who advocate on behalf of the poor have stopped their ritualistic pleadings, poverty remains in place. One gets the impression that we have offered those who expected so much of us only empty rhetoric and posturing. The Millennium Goals must become a benchmark for all the work of the United Nations and for that of each of its Member States. We have to translate them into financial tools and into access to markets and technology. At Monterrey, my country pledged to reach the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for development cooperation by 2010. We have offered, furthermore, new initiatives on the debt burden. I also attach paramount importance to follow-up of the Durban Conference against racism, and to the implementation of the Durban Programme of Action. Combating racism, discrimination and intolerance is absolutely essential for the millions of human beings who have often silently suffered from infringements on their dignity. I stress the historic importance of the agreement on the origins and causes of racism. It forms the basis of a new partnership. Unless we recognize past injustices, we will not have a solid basis for future efforts. Another challenge that we wish to address is to attain absolute gender equality. This is absolutely essential in a civilization of progress, in which our ideals of democracy and humanism are realized. The Secretary-General and his team, including his Deputy, Louise Fréchette, can count on my country's commitment and support for all the reforms under way. We must revitalize the General Assembly, continue the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, expand the Security Council and carry out organizational reforms. I know that the United Nations will take up these challenges. The outstanding and far-sighted speech made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan rightly, skilfully and resolutely reminded us what, in the final analysis, is the meaning of the world government and parliament. He made his statement very convincingly and intelligently. We share his view on reshaping our Organization so that it can live up to our ambitions. My country was at the forefront of combating impunity for the most serious crimes and for the rapid development of a true international criminal justice. That is why we continue to support the internationalization of the Rome Statute, and why we are resolved to preserve its integrity. Admittedly, we know that the dialogue is never easy when law interacts with politics, but we are convinced that in the long- term, nothing will block society's right to demand justice when the most serious crimes against 3 fundamental values are committed. States have primary responsibility for prosecuting the crimes covered in the Statute of the Court. We urge the world community, including the most powerful among us, to give the Court credibility and resources commensurate with its lofty mission. Conflict prevention is one of my country's foreign policy priorities. We are engaged concretely in preventive diplomacy, particularly in Central Africa, where Belgium is proactively supportive of the Lusaka and Arusha peace processes. Belgium actively advocates this approach within the European Union. Belgium is seeking to make this concept of conflict prevention, conflict management and post-conflict support an essential part of international doctrine. We need standing monitoring and warning mechanisms to alert us in time to crises. Such mechanisms could spare the lives of many people. For similar reasons, we need to develop a real strategy against the illegal financing of conflicts and the related illegal trade in natural resources. The sordid exploitation of such resources — for instance, conflict diamonds — too often contributes to finance or at least prolong regional tragedies such as civil wars and inter-ethnic conflicts. To face this challenge, a credible international monitoring system, based on common standards, has to be established. Substantial improvements must be made in the functioning of the various sanctions committees, and we believe that a single monitoring body, with a long-term mandate, should be set up. Africa is at the centre of our concerns, but also of our hopes. The creation of the African Union during the Durban summit of the Organization of African Unity, along with the dynamic of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), are major steps forward taken in recent months. The strengthening of democracy and the recent successful elections in Africa are an encouraging sign. The prospects for Africa also include regional integration of African countries, which we encourage. We can see some positive but still fragile signs with regard to reconciliation in countries that have been too long devastated by conflicts, such as the Great Lakes region, Angola and the Sudan. Further efforts have been made this year to find a solution to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The inter-Congolese dialogue has led, first, to the signing of a partial agreement at Sun City, which created a dynamic of reconciliation, thanks to the efforts of South Africa, to which I pay tribute here. The Pretoria Agreement addresses the main causes of the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: its territorial integrity and the security concerns of Rwanda. The United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has a crucial part to play in ensuring implementation of the Agreement, with its operation to disarm and demobilize the armed groups. I urge Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to take advantage of this opportunity to restore to their peoples the peace and prosperity they deserve. I would also like to pay tribute to the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, Mr. Niasse, for bringing all the Congolese parties to the negotiating table with a view to arriving at a democratic, inclusive agreement. Through the many meetings I have attended in the region, I have become acquainted with Congolese political figures. I know that they have the will, the authority, the competence and the grasp of history to realize the dream of peace and prosperity of a population which has suffered for too long. I should like also to pay tribute to the South African and Tanzanian mediation in the context of negotiations for a ceasefire in Burundi. Despite the progress made, there has been a resumption of violence that could undermine the gains recorded in the Arusha process — so ably facilitated by the political and moral authority of President Nelson Mandela. I would also urgently appeal to all international partners to consider which concrete steps should be taken to help Burundi emerge from its political, economic and social crisis. The difficulties prevailing in this area are without a doubt complicating the political solution. Another area in need of structural stability is the Middle East. Men, women, mothers, fathers, children all are suffering on a daily basis from the violence, and for this reason we must reaffirm those principles that will enable us to find a lasting and equitable solution: land for peace, a viable Palestinian State and security for Israel. Rather than going beyond the gains made through Oslo and Madrid, we should enshrine and reconfirm them by translating them into reality. This is what the European Union has sought to do by drawing up a road map setting out the actions to be taken by the parties concerned with a view to achieving a comprehensive and lasting solution. 4 Lastly, let me ask a question that I think is of global significance. The question of Iraq is a challenge to all of us, because it involves questions at several different levels: the need to eliminate a major threat to the international community; the need to ensure the credibility of our Organization; the need to determine whether a country has weapons of mass destruction that can bring death to millions of people; the need to determine if a country is failing to meet its obligations to the United Nations; and the need to know if a preventive unilateral military action is or is not a doctrinal problem under international law. All of these questions are core issues with respect to our Organization, its missions and its individual and collective political responsibilities. I wish to recall that each and every one of us, in signing the Charter of the United Nations, solemnly undertook to comply with that Charter. Therefore, on behalf of my country and of its citizens, I wish to make a clear appeal to Iraq. I formally and solemnly ask the Iraqi authorities to implement urgently and unconditionally the resolutions adopted by the United Nations. Respect for our Organization and respect for what we are, collectively and individually, is the only way of avoiding recourse to force. I ask the Iraqi authorities to seize this last opportunity. All of these challenges require a united, multilateral reaction in a spirit of solidarity. The world is a village now, but too often we are rather narrow- minded and do not listen to one another. Sometimes the other is seen as a stranger or even an intruder. Human civilizations must learn more about one another in order to live together in harmony. The citizens of the world have different perspectives on life, on religion, on the way they organize their society, on the past and the future. But they all dream of justice, happiness and equality. Often they dream the same dream, but the path to implementing that dream sometimes varies. Respecting others even though they are different will help us move towards a more harmonious world. This is what we, as political leaders, have a responsibility to do, in order to broaden day after day the common area of the values that we share.  ﻿Let me begin by taking this opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous election to preside over the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. My delegation pledges its full support to you and has full confidence in your ability to steer the session to a successful conclusion. I would also like to express my delegation's profound appreciation to your predecessor, 9 His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the excellent manner in which he guided the fifty-sixth session. Our tributes are also due to the Secretary- General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts to carry out the mandate of the United Nations. Nepal congratulates Switzerland and welcomes it as a new Member of the United Nations. We also look forward to having the privilege of welcoming East Timor as a new Member in a few days. We are meeting here under the long and dark shadow of the terrorist attacks carried out against our host city on 11 September 2001. The trauma and tragedy the attacks wrought are still fresh in our memory. Our heart goes out to the children who lost their parents and to the families who lost their near and dear ones. Itself a victim of terrorism, Nepal understands the pain and peril terrorists brutally perpetrate on individuals and societies. As globalization and technological advances have made it possible for terrorists to move people and funds across the world with ease, the concerted efforts of nations will be essential to stamp out terrorism. We therefore support the ongoing global war on terrorism and see the need for better enforcement of existing international law and for the conclusion of a comprehensive global convention for that purpose. In Nepal we have enacted a new law in this regard, as well as rules and regulations that include provisions of relevant international treaties to which we are a party. Being opposed to democracy and freedoms, the so-called Maoist terrorists in Nepal have been taking innocent lives, abducting children to work as child soldiers, and destroying private homes, schools and vital infrastructure. In view of this, His Majesty's Government has recognized them as terrorists and has launched a campaign to protect people and property. We appreciate the moral and financial support from our friends in this effort. We also deplore any suggestion that tends to equate the Government's obligation to protect its citizens with the terrorists' dastardly acts of violence. Even though terrorism is the menace of the moment, other peace and security problems continue to trouble the world. The Middle East is burning and Africa is boiling over with conflict. Tension also abounds elsewhere — in Asia, Europe and Latin America. To find comprehensive peace in the Middle East, Nepal supports the time-bound implementation of Security Council resolution 1397 (2002) and of the Quartet agreement of April 2002. Iraq must comply with the relevant Security Council resolutions, and the international community must respect the sanctity and integrity of the Charter of the United Nations in order to avoid setting fire to the wider region. We are happy that Afghanistan is limping back to normalcy. Providing security coverage over the entire country should be the United Nations priority so that reconstruction can pick up momentum. East Timor has emerged as a free South Pacific nation. We congratulate its people on their freedom and independence, and the United Nations on helping them through the transition. It is encouraging that Sierra Leone has achieved a measure of stability. In order to achieve a wider peace, attempts must be redoubled to resolve the conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia and Burundi. The Balkans, Cyprus and the Korean peninsula should receive necessary support in their quest for peace and harmony. No durable peace will be possible without the prevention of conflicts and the resolution of disputes through peaceful means. Peacekeeping, disarmament and confidence-building are the pillars of the edifice of culture of peace. United Nations peacekeeping operations have proved very useful in helping to stabilize fragile situations during and after conflicts. Nepal is a major player in United Nations peacekeeping and has contributed more than 40,000 military and police personnel so far. Our peacekeepers have served the United Nations with outstanding competence and dedication, sustaining 42 casualties in the line of duty. Our commitment to United Nations peacekeeping operations remains robust. Supplying fully self-sustained troops is our goal, but that often becomes difficult for a poor country. Until we achieve our goal, the United Nations must continue to bridge the resource gap through innovative means. 10 In our view, the total elimination of nuclear weapons in a time-bound manner constitutes the cornerstone of the disarmament endeavour. We also stress the imperative of observing existing international treaties, ratifying the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and concluding a fissile material cut-off treaty. Nuclear-weapon-free zones and a guarantee not to use, or threaten to use, nuclear weapons against non- nuclear-weapon States, and other confidence-building measures will help the process of nuclear disarmament. Equally important is the need to eradicate chemical, biological and other weapons of mass destruction. Small arms have taken more lives than any other type of weapons. We welcome the agreement that emerged from the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects last year. Nonetheless, we underline the need for stricter controls on the possession of such arms by non-State actors. United Nations Regional Centres for peace and disarmament are an important tool for building confidence and helping the process of disarmament in their respective regions. We are grateful to Member States for having designated Nepal as host of the Regional Centre in Asia and the Pacific. It is, however, deeply troubling that the Centre is yet to move to Kathmandu, despite our full commitment to meeting all those obligations that other hosts have met. We urge the United Nations to relocate the Centre immediately and not to set terms and conditions over and above those that other hosts of similar Centres have accepted. One may argue that not all conflicts are products of poverty. Yet people living in poverty, deprivation and despair easily become susceptible to the evil designs of extremist elements. Hence, poverty reduction and sustainable development are an inseparable part of efforts to prevent conflicts and terrorism and to promote peace. Indeed, developing countries must bear the primary responsibility for their own development. Nepal has undertaken far-reaching reforms to liberalize the economy, optimize internal resources, attract foreign investment and protect the environment. Most of its public expenditure is invested in people and in poor areas. Measures have been taken to provide clean Government and improve overall governance. However, our problems are so big and our resources so limited that without additional resources and market access we cannot accelerate our growth and sustain our development. Wealthy nations will therefore have to fulfil their commitments made at the Millennium Summit, as well as at the Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg conferences. We appreciate the pledges of the European Union and the United States to raise the level of their development assistance and urge them to keep their word. Developing countries also need a conducive global economic climate to grow. For that to happen, rich nations must strive to lift the world economy out of the current recession and agree on major reforms in the international financial architecture. More than others, least developed countries in Africa and elsewhere need increased assistance and support to break loose from their poverty trap. Developed nations should do everything in their power to meet the official development targets, provide duty- free and quota-free access for the products of the least developed countries to their markets and help implement other provisions of the Brussels Programme of Action. Landlocked developing countries suffer the constraints of remoteness, high-cost economies and high transit costs. They need targeted assistance to overcome their specific hurdles, as do the small and poor island developing States. Nepal appreciates the United Nations for its important role in propelling development in developing countries. We also welcome the timely appointment of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States. Regional cooperation is a linchpin of attempts collectively to foster competitiveness, capacity and synergy. In South Asia, we are striving to build such cooperation under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). Poverty alleviation, trade liberalization and technical cooperation have received the principal focus as precursors to the ultimate establishment of a South Asian economic union. The eleventh SAARC summit, which Nepal hosted in January, is a testament to member States' eagerness not to let their political differences affect the process of regional economic integration. Nepal is fully committed to democracy, justice and human rights, including those of women and children. We are strengthening the values and institutions of democracy and incorporating international human rights standards into our domestic laws. Our National Human Rights Commission is fully functional and the judiciary is being revitalized. Sadly enough, there are nearly 20 million refugees around the world and many more internally displaced persons. In Nepal alone, there are over 100,000 refugees from Bhutan, deprived of their human rights at home. With a view to finding a durable solution to the problem, Nepal has engaged in bilateral negotiations with Bhutan for nearly a decade now. We call on Bhutan to take the negotiations as a matter of urgency and to pave the way for the earliest repatriation of the refugees. Friendly countries, the United Nations system — particularly the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food Programme — and non-governmental organizations have been generously assisting us in the maintenance of the refugees. We express our appreciation to them for their help and urge them to continue it until the refugees return home. Committed to the principles and purposes of the United Nations, Nepal underlines the need for United Nations reform, so that the Organization can meet the challenges before it. Therefore, revitalizing the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council is our priority. We favour reinforcing collaboration and complementarity between the Economic and Social Council and the Security Council in their respective and related areas. In our view, it is imperative to carry out a limited expansion of the Security Council membership in both categories, in a way that preserves the Council's flexibility and ensures equitable geographical representation. Reform of its working methods must also continue, with a view to enhancing transparency and improving the quality of consultations, particularly with troop-contributing countries. Reform is equally essential within the Secretariat in order to increase its efficiency and effectiveness. Inter-agency coordination should also be upgraded. Central to strengthening the United Nations are a vigorous Non-aligned Movement and a robust Group of 77. As a member of both, Nepal pledges to work with other countries to reinvigorate those bodies and to expand cooperation between them and the United Nations. ﻿First of all, I would like to express my thanks to Mr. Han Seung-soo, President of the previous session of the General Assembly. We appreciated his skilful guidance and leadership. We wish you, Sir, as incoming President, a year of constructive dialogue and fruitful cooperation. I also would like to take this opportunity to welcome Switzerland and East Timor, which are joining the United Nations family. This expansion of United Nations membership is very important. It is taking place at a time when the need for global solidarity and partnership is greater than ever before. Terrorism threatens global stability and the very basis of our lives. Our countries must stand united and act together in order to avert threats to our existence and secure the future of our children. My country knows from experience how powerful and instrumental solidarity can be. Some years ago, Lithuania and eight other countries of Central and Eastern Europe formed an informal Vilnius Group, which has now grown to 10 members, to facilitate their accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Solidarity and mutual support are helping us to make these aspirations a reality that is within our grasps. We hope that our countries will soon join the European Union and NATO, thus reinforcing common values in the region as well as our common positions and actions in the face of future challenges and threats. But political solidarity is not enough. Our countries have also launched regional initiatives and taken other concrete steps to increase contributions to the global campaign against terrorism. In particular, I would like to mention the conference against terrorism — a Polish initiative — that was held in Warsaw last November. Our countries are determined to act and cooperate further, thus strengthening European and global security. In the face of common threats, solidarity must emerge as a consolidating driving force in global diplomacy. The tragedy of 11 September was an experience that reinforced and strengthened our common resolve to combat and counter terrorism. It should give us the courage and determination to work together as an international community in addressing the roots of terrorism; in responding decisively to non- compliance with Security Council resolutions and to gross violations of internationally recognized norms and behaviour; in fighting terror worldwide; and in keeping weapons of mass destruction out of the hands of terrorists. It is regrettable, therefore, that a Member of this great body, the United Nations, does not uphold its commitments or the underlying principles of this Organization. The Iraqi regime must allow unrestricted access to United Nations inspectors so that they can resume their work. We should exert all possible pressure to ensure this. Indeed, this is a test case with respect to the international community's solidarity and unity. 22 Last but not least, I would like to underscore the importance of international and regional cooperation in non-proliferation and arms control. It has always been Lithuania's firm policy to take part in all relevant, effective and functional multilateral arms control and confidence-building regimes that are open to us and that correspond to our national security interests. This year, Lithuania has applied for membership in the Treaty on Open Skies. We will also seek to join the adapted Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe after it comes into force and is open to all European democracies. Each and every State Member of the United Nations should make a positive contribution to international security and stability, first and foremost by respecting the rule of law and the human rights of its citizens. Good governance is a good starting point for all of us, irrespective of our cultural diversity or fundamental differences of history and geography. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who devoted much time to the planning of this multilateral institution known as the United Nations, once said, “We have learned that we cannot live alone, at peace; that our own well-being is dependent on the well-being of other nations far away.” Thus, the real strength of our power as an international community continues to lie in the power of our resolve to deal with the critical issues. Yesterday in this great city of New York, we paid our respects to the victims of 11 September 2001. We admire the way the American people have gone through this tragedy, and we support the United States of America in its efforts to eliminate threats to international security and human freedom. Let us debate, talk things out and make full use of diplomatic measures. But we must be ready to act decisively when strategic realities demand defence of freedom and democracy.  ﻿The profound and dizzying change that took place in the world during the last decade, with the end of the cold war and the acceleration of the process of globalization, did not bring with it the ideal international society for which we had hoped, and world peace now seems as elusive as ever. That is the great challenge the Organization must face as we begin another session of the General Assembly, whose relevance as a coordinating body for the international community is again being put to the test. The events of September 2001 radically changed the perception of security in the world. The main threat to international peace and stability now comes in the form of organized multinational clandestine groups which, having wide access to weapons and financial resources, seek to sow terror with a total lack of basic human feeling. Despite its cultural and religious diversity and the diversity of its political systems, and notwithstanding the marked differences in levels of development, the international community reacted to terrorism with a deep and resolute sense of solidarity, which is reflected in its decision to combat it vigorously within the framework of international law, through the relevant conventions and fulfilment of the obligations stemming from the Security Council, based on the principles of the Charter and on respect for human rights. In facing that scourge, we must not forget what the President of Uruguay, Jorge Batlle, said in his address to the General Assembly last year in reference to terrorism: to fight it, it will also be necessary to move against other enemies of peace, such as poverty and underdevelopment, to give to every person good reason to live and to make all of us guardians of humankind, which is a common good from which no one must feel excluded, and for which we must fight unwaveringly'. (A/56/PV.44, p. 19) It must also be borne in mind that that ubiquitous and anonymous enemy terrorism invokes political pretexts related to unresolved conflicts. In that regard, Uruguay reiterates its confidence that the Palestinian authorities will show proof of their peaceful aspirations through their acts. At the same time, we call on the Government of Israel to make all the efforts necessary to return to the negotiating table, as the only way to achieve lasting peace. We retain our optimism in the face of all those challenges. We wish to highlight two positive developments that demonstrate that the international community is moving in the right direction: the first is the establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC), which will contribute to the maintenance of peace by preventing, deterring and punishing the most serious international crimes that individuals can commit. My country, Uruguay, by signing and ratifying the Rome Statute, indicated its willingness to contribute to the important process of the development and strengthening of international law through the establishment of permanent legal institutions. Secondly, the world has this year laid the groundwork for the management of the broad spectrum of the positive and negative effects of globalization. The recent Summit on Sustainable Development represents the culmination of a process that complements the results of the Monterrey Summit on Financing for Development and the Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO), held at Doha, which will enable the international community to coordinate its efforts to eradicate poverty and to promote global development by increasing 21 development assistance and liberalizing trade in a sustainable manner. The overall conclusion to be drawn from these conferences is clear. If the developing countries are not given equal opportunities and conditions, both with respect to the elimination of subsidies and unfair trade practices and with respect to market access, then those countries the particularly small and developing countries will continue to suffer the negative effects of globalization without enjoying its benefits, thereby aggravating the political, social and economic situation in the vast majority of States in the international community. This is the path to deadlock. Uruguay, with its firm commitment to multilateralism, belongs, at the regional level, to the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR), together with Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, as well as Bolivia and Chile. MERCOSUR, which is now a decade old it has been in existence since the AsunciÛn Treaty of 1991 has established itself as an effective actor within the international community, going beyond the dimension of an economic project to play an active role as a stabilizer of democracy in the region, thus consolidating the rule of law and full respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights. It is therefore as a member of MERCOSUR that Uruguay has opted for an ambitious policy of trade liberalization characterized by the principle of transparency. It hopes that the other trading blocs in the developed world will apply the same principles and avoid the duplicity inherent in advocating the need to promote free trade on the one hand, while at the same time protecting one's markets with discriminatory practices. We therefore ask for reciprocity from our trading partners. We must not forget that this is the reason why we are now facing increasing difficulty in achieving our development goals. Uruguay, like many other countries in other regions of the world, is experiencing an economic and financial crisis that was completely unavoidable as a result of the severe impact of regional, extra-regional and external factors. This was attributable to our increasing dependency on foreign trade, to the fall in the international prices of our products, to the implementation of subsidies and to other protectionist measures by the developed countries, and to the rapid spread of the crisis in the financial systems of the main exporting markets. To this we must add another tragic irony. Our export products, which are mainly agricultural, cannot compete with similar goods from other countries because of their higher cost, which results from the fact that Uruguay fulfils all of its international obligations in the labour and social fields, particularly with regard to child labour, the work of women, the minimum wage, social benefits and working conditions. Nevertheless, the developed countries preach respect for human rights, the strengthening of social security and the fulfilment of those obligations, while at the same time purchasing products that are produced at lower cost, in violation of international legal obligations. The phenomenon of globalization, which has developed thus far without a proper cooperation framework, appears to be the cause of many of these problems. We continue to believe that it is within this Organization that we must continue to explore ways that will lead to a political solution to the principal problems that we all face. On the one hand the United Nations is the obvious body to manage the impact of globalization. In this process of constant change which is accelerated, no doubt, by the technological advances of the so- called information society we recognize the potential that information technology innovations have for the development of democracy and the economy as well as social progress, and we note with great interest that the World Summit on the Information Society will be held next year. Furthermore, we must bring to life once again the true purpose and meaning of international economic cooperation. True solidarity is reflected not only in the undertaking of commitments at international summits and conferences. It is expressed above all in the faithful discharge of these commitments by each State, in particular developed countries. This is the only way in which developing countries can move beyond their low levels of progress and achieve sustainable development. All of this requires the introduction of changes in the organs and in the procedures of the United Nations in order to ensure better representativity in its structure and to enhance the efficiency of its functioning. The reform of the Security Council and the revitalization of the General Assembly are tasks that are still pending and which we must continue to pursue. 22 Uruguay has confidence in multilateral mechanisms for preserving and building international peace and security. It is a signatory to the San Francisco Charter and since 1952 has contributed troops to 13 United Nations peacekeeping missions. We take pride in the fact that the more than 1,500 members of our military and police forces currently participating in peacekeeping operations represent this firm commitment and our belief in this Organization. Therefore Uruguay shares in its entirety the eloquent and passionate advocacy of multilateralism reflected in the Secretary-General's statement last week in this very Hall. Like Mr. Kofi Annan, the people and the Government of Uruguay reaffirm their genuine commitment to multilateralism, deeply rooted in our spirit and based on principle, on tradition and on conviction. The most recent political developments, in terms of the crisis posed by Iraq, is in our view proof of the need for balance which can be achieved only within the framework of mutilateralism. In conclusion, I should like to warmly and sincerely congratulate you, Sir, on the manner in which you have been accomplishing your work, which we know will be successful. We also welcome the two new Members who are joining the Organization the Swiss Confederation and Timor-Leste. We know that under your leadership, this will be a fruitful and successful session of the Assembly. ﻿One year after the terrible attacks of 11 September, we commemorate the innocent victims of those crimes. The best way we can honour their memory is by taking up and acting upon all the many-faceted challenges that terrorism and other threats pose to human security. The world has changed irrevocably, although we cannot as yet say exactly how. We do not even know if our immediate reaction a year ago has been successfully put to use to make the world a better and safer place in which to live. Afghanistan is no longer a base for global terrorism, and joint efforts to uproot terrorist networks are making progress, but the threat of new attacks has not been eliminated. At some stage we will also reach the limit of what can be done through military force and police action alone to stop terrorism. Even where the use of military force is clearly necessary and justified, as it was against Al Qaeda and the Taliban, it is never an adequate answer. In Afghanistan we are now faced with the need to use a full range of civilian crisis management capabilities, as well as with the need for a long-term commitment to reconstruction and the development of a stable and drug-free economy, and to enable democracy and respect for human rights to take root in a country that has suffered from war and strife for decades. And Afghanistan is only one of many places in today's world where such a commitment from the international community is needed. We must also come to grips with conditions in which some people can regard even terrorism as justified. To say that does not imply any understanding for indiscriminate terrorism. Terrorism is a crime whose perpetrators must be brought to justice irrespective of their motives. It is vitally important to underline the need to strengthen the rule of law. When terrorists attack democracy, humanity and justice, we should not and cannot fight it with means that are in conflict with those basic values that the terrorists are attacking. It is time to review frankly the measures taken after 11 25 September and to rectify any excesses that are not acceptable in societies based on freedom and justice. The International Criminal Court (ICC) has been in gestation for many years, and its creation can be regarded as one of the major achievements of the United Nations. It was not created primarily to deal with terrorism, but the importance of the ICC has obviously grown, not diminished, since 11 September. The ICC is a long-standing goal of Finland and the European Union, and we must not allow it to be undermined. The ICC must not become an issue of international dispute. We must safeguard it as an effective and independent judicial institution so that we can convince those States that remain outside it to join us in making it truly universal. Terrorism is only one of many new threats to our security that are no longer linked to the threat of traditional war between nation-States. In a world where our entire national defence policies and our efforts to build collective security have been based on the need to wage or deter traditional war, we now need new and fresh thinking. It is not only that military power has become partly impotent in delivering security. It is also evident that we cannot contain these threats through isolation or by acting unilaterally. The United Nations and its Security Council have global responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Human lives are equally valuable all over the world. People in crisis situations need the protection and the action of the international community. Individual and minor crises can turn into major threats to international peace and security. Member States must give the United Nations the wherewithal that is necessary for meaningful action in preventing crises, managing conflicts and building peace after conflicts. Action needs true commitment to multilateralism, which must exceed national interests and unilateralism. Multilateralism cannot be exercised à la carte whenever convenient. Global interests require global action. An undeniable success story in the history of the United Nations is the Organization's peacekeeping activities. Countless lives have been saved by United Nations peacekeeping operations. But we know, too, that possibly even more lives have been lost if and when the United Nations has not been able or allowed to operate. The reason has been the lack of political will or the prevalence of national interests in the Security Council. I would like to reiterate that the Security Council is mandated to act on behalf of all Member States. The concept of peacekeeping has evolved considerably during the existence of the United Nations from purely military operations into versatile, complex and continuous efforts that extend in some cases to nation-building. A growing element in them is civilian crisis management. This should be further strengthened. Crisis management in its whole continuum should also be based on broad cooperation and compatibility. Present complex crises are often too demanding for any one organization to deal with. All regional organizations should work closely together with the United Nations and other organizations sharing the burden of maintaining international peace and security. The Middle East remains the region where our concerns are most concentrated. The conflict between Israel and Palestine has, if anything, worsened. We support all efforts of the “quartet” to get the peace process working again on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions. We support the Palestinian administration's effort at reform, which we have rightly demanded must be undertaken, and we expect a one- hundred-per-cent effort from it to stop all terrorist activities. At the same time, the Palestinians must be given the prospect of a clear commitment and a timetable for the creation of an independent and viable Palestinian State. The Palestinian administration has to be given the resources and conditions with which it can fulfil the requirements of what the international community demands of it and of what the Palestinian people have the right to expect. Without progress in the Middle East peace process, any military action in the region can have extremely dangerous and unforeseen consequences. It is imperative that efforts to get Iraq to abide unconditionally with all the resolutions of the Security Council remain the responsibility of the United Nations. When the United Nations was founded, the world's population was 2.4 billion. Now we are more than 6 billion, and population growth, while slowly levelling off, will bring that number to at least 10 billion before stabilizing. This is a huge challenge for mankind. We have only a few decades, at most, to 26 bring our economic, production and societal models to conform to the exigencies of sustainable development. But this is not only an environmental challenge. Nations and peoples must learn to live and to act together in an ever-shrinking world where no one can manage on his own. In a rapidly globalizing world, the need for keen international cooperation becomes all the more evident. Decisions taken in one part of the world have many effects elsewhere. This can quickly lead to an ever- widening gap and fragmentation between countries and within countries. Comprehensive implementation of the Millennium Declaration will make an important impact on narrowing that gap. A positive example of the means we can employ to meet the goals of the Declaration is the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), which demonstrates the genuine desire of the African nations to take responsibility for their future. Finland attaches great importance to the implementation of NEPAD. Globalization has wealth-creating potential through the international division of labour and a more efficient use of resources. It can increase individual freedom and make societies more open. But, on the other hand, it is incontestable that globalization has not benefited everybody or every country in an equal manner. Globalization can bring risks and threats to the environment, core labour standards and trade unions, and it can challenge national and minority cultures. It can also be socially damaging. On the whole, however, globalization is not only inevitable but also potentially positive. The United Nations has an important role in managing and harnessing globalization for the benefit of all. We the Member States must fully participate in that work.  ﻿I should like at the outset to sincerely congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- seventh session. I should also like to express my deep appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, Foreign Minister of the Republic of Korea, for his tireless efforts in conducting the proceedings of the fifty-sixth session, as well as of the twenty-seventh special session of the Assembly, on children. I should also like to express our deep appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his continued efforts to enhance the role of the United Nations and to enable it to achieve the noble and lofty objectives for which it was created. Furthermore, I am pleased to extend my congratulations to the Swiss Confederation on its having joined the Organization. I would like also to congratulate East Timor on attaining its independence. It is also my pleasure to welcome the establishment of the African Union, the successor to the Organization of African Unity. 9 This session was convened on the first anniversary of 11 September, an event that terrified the international community, shocked the human conscience and unified international efforts to face up to an enemy that has no religion, ethnicity, race or nationality. That enemy is terrorism. On this painful anniversary, it is incumbent upon us to again extend our condolences and sympathy to the United States of America and its friendly people, and to the families of the victims everywhere, and to condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We affirm our support for all international efforts that seek to combat its elements and to uproot it. In line with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and with international efforts, the Kingdom of Bahrain has sought, since attaining independence, to build a modern State and a civil society in which the human being is the focal point. Such a human being would be prepared and qualified to cope with the political, economic and social requirements of modern life. Moreover, taking firm and confident steps, the Kingdom of Bahrain affirms its commitment to the development and modernization process taking place under the leadership of His Majesty Shaikh Hamad Bin Isa Al-Khalifa, King of the Kingdom of Bahrain. My country was proclaimed a constitutional monarchy following a plebiscite on our National Action Charter, designed to promote democratic and constitutional life in Bahrain. The municipal elections in May 2002, in which women participated both as voters and as candidates, were a success; preparations are now under way for parliamentary elections, which are to take place in October. The Government and the people have made a concerted effort to ensure success in the democratic and developmental process, as set out in the Kingdom's Constitution and in its policies and programmes in all fields. In this regard, the Kingdom has acceded to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Civic activities have been enhanced and the number of non-governmental organizations has risen. These have been promoted so that all the people of Bahrain may participate in expanding national efforts to ensure the well-being of the people and respect for human rights in all civil, political, economic, social and cultural areas. The Kingdom of Bahrain takes pride in these achievements, which have been recognized by the United Nations Human Development Report for 2002, which ranked the Kingdom of Bahrain high among all countries of the world and, for the sixth time, first among sisterly Arab States. Furthermore, the Arab Human Development Report 2002 has also mentioned our achievements, showing once again the success of the Kingdom's democratic and development strategy in all areas. Moreover, the leadership and the people of the Kingdom of Bahrain are proud that, in a report recently published by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, Bahrain was ranked 42nd among the 87 countries included in the report, and first in the Arab world. The Kingdom of Bahrain attaches great importance to the question of regional security, because of the repercussions it has on the security and stability of States and peoples. Accordingly, Bahrain has consistently sought to consolidate neighbourly relations and mutual respect with its neighbouring States. Bahrain looks forward to the peaceful resolution of the question of the three Emirates islands, in accordance with the principles and rules of international law and in a brotherly spirit of understanding, on the basis of recent positive developments in the relations between the States members of the Gulf Cooperation Council and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and in the light of the direct contacts that have taken place recently, in particular those between the United Arab Emirates and Iran. Furthermore, the Arab Summit, held in Beirut last March, confirmed the necessity and importance of security and stability in the Gulf region and of creating a propitious atmosphere for the restoration of normal relations among the States of the region. It called upon Iraq to complete the implementation of relevant Security Council resolutions on the situation between Iraq and Kuwait, especially those relating to Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners of war; to cooperate with the United Nations with a view to alleviating the suffering of the people of Iraq; and to avoid any confrontation that might threaten the States and peoples of the region or the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq, and that might be used as a pretext for interfering in Iraq's internal affairs. 10 The Middle East is currently facing great danger as a result of Israel's policy in the occupied Palestinian territories and of its perpetration of the most heinous crimes against the Palestinian people, such as assassinations, blockades and the destruction of the infrastructure and the economy. The events that took place in the Jenin refugee camp and in the Gaza Strip, along with the daily events that occur in all other Palestinian cities, are clear indications of the Israeli Government's aggression and violation of international law and norms and of its unwillingness to accept peace or comply with the international agreements it has signed. Furthermore, the Palestinian people are still resisting this ferocious assault with great courage and determination, thus asserting their right to fight the occupation and emphasizing their belief in their just cause, while upholding their legitimate leadership and defending their national rights, as endorsed by the international community, in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), and other relevant resolutions, the latest being Council resolution 1397 (2002). They are also upholding the principle of land for peace and the establishment of an independent Palestinian State on their national land, with Jerusalem as its capital. On the basis of its principles and in support of justice, Bahrain has always stood by the brotherly people of Palestine. It affirms its full support for the Arab peace initiative adopted at the Arab Summit held at Beirut in March 2002 on the basis of the vision offered by His Royal Highness Prince Abdullah Bin Abdul-Aziz Al-Saud, Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. That vision provides for an end to the Middle East conflict, the establishment of normal relations with Israel in exchange for its withdrawal from all the occupied Arab territories to the borders of 4 June 1967, including withdrawal from the Syrian Arab Golan Heights and the remaining Lebanese occupied territories, and a just settlement of the question of Palestinian refugees in accordance with General Assembly resolution 194 (III) of 1948. The oppression to which the Palestinian people are subjected and the ongoing situation that threatens security and peace in the Middle East and the world require immediate intervention by the Security Council and the international community to stop Israeli practices against the Palestinian people and to reactivate the Arab peace initiative at the regional and international levels. That initiative is a viable basis for any move towards the achievement of a just and comprehensive peace in the region. Bahrain has welcomed the initiative of the United States Secretary of State with respect to convening a peace conference on the Middle East, on the basis of ideas and principles put forward by the Arab Summit in the Arab peace initiative and of the relevant international resolutions. It hopes that a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East will thus be achieved, leading to stability and security, ending the cycle of conflict and violence, and bringing instead a cycle of fruitful cooperation among the countries of the region. Bahrain has also reaffirmed this position by welcoming the positive ideas in President Bush's 24 June 2002 statement on the Middle East. Those ideas were reiterated in his statement before the General Assembly last Thursday and related to the settlement of the Middle East conflict within the framework of the resolutions of international legitimacy, and with a view to establishing a Palestinian State living side by side with Israel in peace and security. The Arab side, through the Arab peace initiative and by accepting the ideas that President Bush has put forward, has clearly demonstrated its interest in security and stability in the region. The Israeli side has yet to detail what plans it has for peace and what position it has taken vis-à-vis the Arab peace initiative and the ideas put forward by President Bush. What is needed now is to translate those ideas and initiatives into plans and practical steps that benefit peace and put an end to the present deteriorating situation. In the light of Bahrain's religious and cultural traditions, as reflected in our Constitution and national laws and as reaffirmed by our policies that focus, inter alia, on the right to life, security and peace, we would like to reaffirm our strong rejection of all forms and manifestations of terrorism. We would also welcome the convening under United Nations auspices of an international conference on terrorism, with a view to reaching an internationally agreed definition of terrorism that differentiates between unacceptable terrorist acts and legitimate struggle and resistance by people against foreign occupation to achieve national liberation and self-determination, and to defend themselves in accordance with the United Nations Charter, to which we adhere in word and deed. The Kingdom of Bahrain has followed with great interest the developments in Afghanistan, a country that has lacked stability and has suffered the ravages of war for many years. We welcome the measures taken by the Government of Afghanistan with a view to promoting security and stability and restoring normal life for its people. We have also cooperated fully with the Committee established pursuant to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) on financial and logistical measures against terrorist activities, in line with the concept of collective action within the United Nations. Bahrain has supported all initiatives to establish nuclear-weapon-free zones and has supported other confidence-building measures in regions such as the Middle East, where we have supported the creation of a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction, especially nuclear weapons, in accordance with the relevant General Assembly resolutions. We call upon all our neighbours to support this idea in order to release resources that could be used for the prosperity and development of peoples. We call on the United Nations to exert pressure on Israel to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to subject its nuclear facilities to the comprehensive safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Dialogue and tolerance among States and peoples contribute to the promotion of understanding and the maintenance of international peace and security. Based on that conviction, and emphasizing the importance we attach to General Assembly resolution 53/22 of 16 November 1998 concerning the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations, the Kingdom of Bahrain has hosted a seminar organized in cooperation with the Government of Japan. A number of internationally known intellectuals from the Arab and Islamic worlds and from Japan participated in the seminar, which was convened last March and was entitled “The Dialogue among Civilizations: The Islamic World and Japan”. The seminar sought to promote dialogue between Arab- Islamic civilizations and other civilizations so that different cultures may grow closer to one another. In furtherance of this approach, the Kingdom of Bahrain will also host the tenth session of the Islamic- Christian Dialogue Conference, to be held from 28 to 30 October 2002. The objective is to promote better understanding between world religions and cultures, and to enhance interaction and exchange in order to preserve the progress that has been made and to invigorate an informed outlook for the future, wherein cooperation in the interest of the entire human race, without discrimination, can take place. In conclusion, I would like to state that, thanks to cooperative efforts, the World Summit on Sustainable Development, recently held in Johannesburg, provided a favourable opportunity for the review and evaluation of achievements made over the past 10 years, the identification of impediments and challenges, the development of strategies and the identification of objectives and priorities for joint action. It is our hope that all States will implement the outcome of the Johannesburg Summit and will address the challenges facing us all, especially the developing States. In that context, the Kingdom of Bahrain would like once again to affirm the importance of practical and effective implementation of the Millennium Declaration with regard to development and the role of the international community and international organizations in supporting national efforts in that field. We are confident that the United Nations, with the determination, political will and hard work of its Member States, is capable of efforts that will help us achieve our shared goals of just peace, economic prosperity and social justice throughout the world. It is in our interest to cooperate with one another to make the United Nations the main engine of our activities, in order to achieve a better world: one of peace, security, prosperity and justice for all peoples and all States.   ﻿Please accept, Mr. President, the warm congratulations of the Republic of the Fiji Islands on your election to lead this forum. I also extend my appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, for his guidance of the General Assembly during the past year. We also wish to congratulate Switzerland on its admission to the Organization, as well as East Timor on its imminent membership of the United Nations. Their membership gives them a direct share in the collective responsibility of the United Nations to promote world peace, security and development. When I last spoke here, in September 2000, my country was in the throes of its most dangerous crisis, following an armed uprising against the elected Government. However, with God's help and with the support of our own citizens and the understanding of friends overseas, we have passed through the worst. We returned to parliamentary democracy through general elections in August last year. We have been welcomed back into the Commonwealth and granted leadership of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States (ACP). Recently, we hosted the third summit of ACP leaders, as well as the thirty-third meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum. Our economy is growing again, and we have just concluded a successful national consultation on strategies for development. We have also embarked on a reconciliation effort to strengthen peace and harmony in our multiracial society. Today I thank the Member States of the United Nations and the United Nations system for their support and understanding during our period of crisis. They stood with us, with words of quiet encouragement, and expressed confidence in our ability to resolve our own difficulties. There were others who were judgmental and strident. Their approach was not helpful. We remind them of the founding principles of the United Nations: respect for national sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of Member States. Countries have the right to seek, and to put into effect, their own solutions to their problems. Not far from this site is the desolate and empty space of Ground Zero. It is a scar not only on the face of this city; it is a scar on the world, a terrible reminder of an unspeakable act of horror. We in the Pacific share America's pain. We cannot feel it in all its intensity, but we have a sense of the anguish and the anger. Our thoughts and prayers have been with the American 2 people. We remember the innocents of so many races and faiths whose blood was spilled by hate, including those killed in Kenya, Tanzania and other places, through wanton acts of terrorism. Let it be known that the small nations of the Pacific join the United Nations and all right-thinking countries in the fight against terrorism. In the Pacific Ocean, we are far from the world's centres of power and areas of conflict and tension, but we are very conscious that, today, no country is beyond the reach of fanatics all too ready to kill and maim at random. The Pacific's response to the heightened threats of terrorism and transnational crime is contained in the Nasonini Declaration on regional security. This was adopted at the recent meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum, which I had the honour to chair. The Declaration binds the Pacific Islands Forum States to the implementation of internationally agreed anti- terrorism measures, such as Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and the special recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force. Forum countries have undertaken to introduce legislation and other measures to combat terrorism and terrorist financing. We will similarly act against drug trafficking, people smuggling and money laundering, in accordance with work undertaken by such organizations as the United Nations. The summit of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States (ACP) in Fiji in July lent the weight of 78 States, with 650 million people, to the anti-terrorism campaign. Its Nadi Declaration strongly condemned the 11 September attacks and terrorism in all its forms. ACP countries want terror to be fought politically, legally and operationally and in keeping with the United Nations Charter. We made the point that the root causes of terrorism, including poverty, underdevelopment and oppression, must be treated. The member countries of the Pacific Islands Forum are heartened that at last there is an awakening to the importance of the oceans. The international community is starting to see that the conservation and sustainable use of the oceans are vital to the survival of the human race and this planet. It was a significant achievement for us that the Plan of Implementation adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development had a comprehensive section on oceans and numerous allied issues. The Summit specifically recognized that oceans, islands and coastal areas are essential to the Earth's ecosystem and critical to food security and the economic welfare of many developing countries. While the island States are small in population and area — in contrast to the billions who occupy the large land continents — we have something no other international grouping possesses. Our Pacific heritage gives us sovereign authority over nearly one sixth of the Earth's surface. The Pacific has been described as the last frontier, its depths still largely unexplored, its total resources unknown. This almost boundless body of water contains great biological diversity, the most extensive coral reefs in the world, seabed minerals and the largest sustainable tuna fishery. Humankind still does not know what forms of natural energy it may produce. It is our responsibility, as people of the islands, to protect and nurture the Pacific. We must do so not only for ourselves, but for people everywhere. For the first time, we have adopted a regional ocean policy which lays out the guiding principles for promoting the Pacific as a maritime environment in support of sustainable development. These principles are based on international law, reflected in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and other international and regional agreements. The policy's objective is to improve our understanding of the Ocean, maintain its health and ensure environmentally sound use of its resources and riches. It also recognizes that we cannot take on this task alone and that we will therefore need to develop partnerships and promote Pacific cooperation. For Pacific islands peoples, the ocean environment is an integral part of their ethnic and cultural identity and way of life. It is because of the importance of the sea and its resources to them that they are so adamantly opposed to any action which exposes the Pacific Ocean to pollution, hazardous waste and the destructive effects of nuclear and missile tests. Recently, radioactive materials have been trans- shipped across the Pacific in arrogant defiance of our protests. We are told there is no risk, but when we propose payment of compensation if there should be an accident, there is instant rejection. The danger these shipments pose to us is underscored by the disaster off the coast of South Africa, where a freighter ran aground with a hold full of toxic chemicals. We read of a ship carrying hazardous cargo on fire in waters off Britain. We do not want the Pacific put at risk in this way. We know too well the legacy of radioactivity from nuclear-weapons testing. People in parts of the Pacific continue to suffer from the fallout. We are still waiting 3 for those who committed these acts to take full responsibility for what they have done. There are real hazards to low-lying atolls from another by-product of this era of environmental crisis. Rising sea levels caused by global warming will lead to the disappearance of some islands. They will sink beneath the waves. Do not therefore be surprised if in future environmental refugees from Oceania are forced to seek sanctuary elsewhere. The world should also not be surprised at the strong call from the Pacific for the adoption and ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. We praise those nations that have signified their intention to ratify. To those who have not done so, we pose the same question we asked in Johannesburg: Will you display the courage, generosity and largeness of spirit the world needs from you? Will you join fully in saving the Earth from the gross abuse and destruction of its resources? We have done much in the Pacific to secure our ownership of the rich regional tuna fishery. Ten years of combined effort, negotiation, lobbying and painstaking legal drafting led to the adoption of the United Nations Law of the Sea Convention in 1982. When it came into force, international law allowed us to lay claim to huge areas of marine-resource jurisdiction through archipelagic regimes and 200- nautical-mile exclusive economic zones. We established the Forum Fisheries Agency to coordinate our efforts to get the best returns from valuable tuna stocks. There was a successful conclusion to negotiations with America for a regional fisheries agreement. I pay tribute here to the United States for its willingness to reach an accord and for agreeing to its extension to 2013. We still have much to do, however, to consolidate our position and to ensure that we bring an end to exploitation, which continues unabated. We are angered by the indiscriminate commercial exploitation of our tuna by distant-water fishing fleets. They have no compunction about using purse seine methods and drift nets, which take huge amounts of small tuna and destroy other species. We call on those nations to act responsibly and to stop this ruthless exploitation. The reality is that more than 95 per cent of the annual value of the South Pacific catch is taken by them. Where arrangements for fees to be paid do apply, the return to the region is less than 3 per cent of the annual commercial worth of the harvest. Obviously, we must redouble our efforts to improve our ability to receive a fair share of these resources from harvesting and processing. The next step is to bring into effect the Western and Central Pacific Tuna Convention. This will establish a commission to secure long-term sustainability. The Convention recognizes that the standards of other regions cannot be applied to us and that our interests will be safeguarded against more powerful and economically superior Powers. We very much welcomed the undertaking by a number of countries in Johannesburg to permit quota and tariff-free market access to the least developed of the developing countries. We urge them to extend the same access conditions to developing island States. We know that free trade, as espoused by the World Trade Organization, is the ideal. All nations will trade on the same basis of equality and fairness, but what a large gap there is between the ideal and the reality. The developing countries hear huge amounts of free-market rhetoric from the rich nations, but it is completely cancelled out by the reality of continuing protectionism. There is no level playing field for the poorer nations, only a steep and slippery slope. That is why we must move carefully into an integrated system of world trade and allow special treatment for those developing countries that are especially vulnerable. It is in furtherance of this that I make a plea for the acceptance of small island developing States as a special case for trade and aid assistance. This would bring them into line with the least developed and landlocked developing countries. Next week will see the commencement of formal negotiations between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries on new partnership arrangements under the Cotonou Agreement. The ACP States look forward to strengthening the partnership with the European Union started under the Lomé Convention in 1975. It is also their hope that the new economic partnership agreements will incorporate commitments made by the European Union member countries at Johannesburg. The United Nations was conceived to seek the betterment of people and to foster security and peace in the world. It has had its failures, and it still has its critics. But let us not forget the successes and its influence for good. Consider where we would be without the United Nations. We believe it has a 4 continuing role and a future, given the commitment of the membership to its governing principles. I am pleased to assure the Assembly that the Pacific Island Forum and the Africa, Caribbean and Pacific Group strongly support our Secretary-General's new emphasis on preventive diplomacy. Conflict prevention and peace-building should continue to be the central considerations in involvement by the United Nations in ongoing efforts to deal with conflict and crisis situations in the Middle East and elsewhere. We congratulate the United Nations on the success of its various peacekeeping operations. Fiji's participation in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), after more than 24 years, will conclude in December this year. It has been a great honour for us to serve the international cause of bringing peace and order to that part of the Middle East. Fiji reaffirms its willingness to continue its participation in United Nations and international peacekeeping operations. All this has cost us dearly in lost lives, but it is a price we are willing to pay for international peace and security. We live in uncertain times. The world is troubled. We look to the United Nations to provide steadiness and balance at the centre. We look to it to maintain peace on earth and hope for humanity. Member countries of the Pacific Island Forum have committed themselves to promoting and safeguarding the Pacific Ocean as a region of peace. We appeal to all those who are part of our wider Pacific community to embrace the way of peace and to constructively engage in cooperation for development. We welcome China's increasing presence and involvement in supporting and assisting development in our region. China and Taiwan have longstanding differences. All of us in the Pacific want to see them resolve their dispute amicably through dialogue and a common vision. We welcome the peace mission by the Prime Minister of Japan to normalize relations with North Korea. We hope that his visit will also have the added impetus of encouraging North and South Korea to intensify their contacts and dialogue for a peaceful accord between them. Japan, itself, is setting an example of how a developed nation can use its resources to help others. In Johannesburg, Japan was more forthcoming than most affluent countries in its willingness to act on the Summit agenda and decisions. It is already playing a very positive role in the South Pacific. Fiji reiterates its support for Japan as a permanent member of the Security Council, along with China. In concluding, let me reaffirm that, in a world still threatened by conflict and war, the Pacific Island Forum and the ACP Group stand firmly for peace. We say the best way of securing that and protecting our precious planet is to uphold the multilateralism represented by the United Nations and its family of nations. For peace to endure, the United Nations must continue to ensure that development and opportunities for economic and social progress are spread and shared evenly among all its Member States. At Johannesburg, we all agreed to promote partnerships to assist developing countries in dealing more effectively with the basic needs of their peoples. From our experience with our trade and development partnerships, with Australia and New Zealand and with the European Union, the Pacific Islands and ACP countries commit themselves to working closely with the United Nations system and other multilateral organizations, like the World Trade Organization, in promoting similar partnerships with other developed countries.  ﻿I wish to extend our congratulations to Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to lead the work of the General Assembly. We are confident that his leadership will bring greater honour to the United Nations, to his country and to himself. We would also like to congratulate his predecessor, Mr. 14 Han Seung-soo, for his excellent work during the previous session. We would also like to express our solidarity with Secretary-General Kofi Annan in his defence of the will of the many in the face of any event that places world peace at risk. We also wish to welcome the Swiss Confederation and East Timor as they take their places in the Organization. On behalf of the people and the Government of the Dominican Republic, I would like once again to reiterate the profound faith that the Dominican people have in the principles on which the universal mission of the United Nations is based. The ideas and ambitions that sparked the Second World War brought humanity close to losing all hope for peaceful co- existence. Political fanaticism, intransigent nationalism and all sorts of prejudices cast their shadow over leaders and over a great part of the world, leading to an ominous undertaking whose ideological manifestation greatly endangered the freedom and cultural diversity of humankind. Luckily for all, reason prevailed. In order to make that victory a lasting one, and in order to ensure that humankind would maintain a steady and clear path towards peace, the nations who fought for freedom recognized the need to create a body to watch over the values that would improve international behaviour. These were the reasons for both the emergence of the United Nations and for enshrining in the Charter the objectives of peace, justice, the rejection of aggression and the resolution of controversies through peaceful means and in accordance with international law. In other words, it was very clearly set out that the Organization would seek to use every peaceful means to resolve conflicts between peoples or States. It was also clearly specified that the use of force to maintain or restore peace and international security had to be the result of a unanimous decision of the permanent members of the Security Council. Over five decades have passed since the establishment of the Organization, and the events and changes experienced by the world in that time have been innumerable. Many bloody conflicts in the Middle East, Asia and Africa have challenged the authority of the United Nations. Many unilateral actions have violated the Organization's legal system and threatened the balance of the world. Nevertheless, despite every provocation and all the instances of non-compliance with the resolutions of its highest bodies, the Organization has clearly made its mark by asserting the need to respect the international norms and laws governing the behaviour of its members. Peace, and even the survival of mankind itself, owe a great deal to the achievements of the United Nations. Unfortunately, threats to universal peace continue to cast their shadow over the world today. The date of 11 September 2001 is an alarming example of the scope and capability of the enemies of peace. We will never be able to forget the perversity of those actions, their criminal character or the affront they tried to inflict upon this great nation. We understand perfectly well that, in the face of an aggression of this nature, the spontaneous reaction may be that of claiming legitimate self-defence. However, we should agree that such a response has moral limitations and conditions embodied in the principles that rule the rights of people and in those that form the bedrock of this Organization. The Dominican Government has been signing all resolutions, agreements and conventions against terrorism. The Dominican Government has supported Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), which created the Counter-Terrorism Committee, and is promoting the work to draft a comprehensive convention against international terrorism. However, our purpose in fighting this scourge and our solidarity with the nations that have been and are its victims must be focused, beyond any contingency, on the eradication of the causes that stimulate and provoke the depravation of the human condition that is expressed in acts of terror. With regard to the right to confront terrorism directly, we must be aware that unilateral action represents a defeat of our capacity to reach agreements. It is only logical that it is our responsibility to do so with all the authority that this Organization grants through its multilateral nature. This is true because the use of force can be justified only when all means under the Charter of United Nations available to the General Assembly and the Security Council to assess the existence of a real threat to world peace have been exhausted. In his report of 13 April 1998 concerning the issue of peace in Africa, the Secretary-General set forth ideas which must serve as a guide on the Iraqi situation. Among other ideas, Kofi Annan stated: 15 “For the United Nations there is no higher goal, no deeper commitment and no greater ambition than preventing armed conflict. The prevention of conflict begins and ends with the promotion of human security and human development.” (A/52/871, para. 2) It is obvious that we are not the only ones to think that, in the face of market globalization processes, cultural exchanges, technologies and communications, it has become imperative to resume on the path laid down at the Millennium Summit in order to correct the imbalances and to halt the growing total marginalization of large sectors of the world population. Allow me to quote a paragraph from the Millennium Declaration as a reminder of our priorities: “We believe that the central challenge we face today is to ensure that globalization becomes a positive force for all the world's people. For while globalization offers great opportunities, at present its benefits are very unevenly shared, while its costs are unevenly distributed. We recognize that developing countries and countries with economies in transition face special difficulties in responding to this central challenge.” (resolution 55/2, para. 5) Moreover, the Millennium Summit prioritized issues such as poverty, illiteracy, illness, gender inequality and environmental depletion as causes that conspire decisively against peace and universal coexistence. These troubling situations beg the question: How much have we done at the national and international levels to eliminate the obstacles that hinder the growth of the developing countries? Right from its assumption of power in August 2000, the Government of the Dominican Republic, headed by agronomist Hipólito Mej'a, has taken a series of measures aimed at adapting legislation in both public and private institutions to the demands of the unavoidable globalization process. With respect to social reform, the Dominican Government has launched a programme to reduce poverty and has increased its support in the fight against illiteracy. The creation of ministries of women and the environment are also significant initiatives in view of the lack of attention from which these sectors of society traditionally suffered. We know that other countries have made similar changes, but the truth of the matter is that, as a whole, global statistics leave little room for optimism when compared to those relating to the great majority of developing countries. Unfortunately, at the global level, we cannot say that developed countries have manifested any understanding of or solidarity towards these issues in positive terms. The opportunities offered by the developed countries for developing countries to participate in the globalization process through cooperation leading to harmonious, gradual and equitable adaptation leave much to be desired. Within this sombre picture, the United Nations has to act decisively in favour of the development of nations unjustifiably constrained by protectionism and subsidies, which create barriers that hinder competition on equal terms and which, consequently, negate free trade. Year after year, speaker after speaker, we speak in this solemn Hall about the mandate — also ratified at the Millennium Summit — to proceed with decisive reforms in the Security Council and the General Assembly. However, a sort of indifference or adverse purport postpones or paralyses the opportunity to actually undertake such reform. If the universal conscience is to enjoy genuine representation, the reform of such bodies is imperative. Thus, this Organization needs its multilateral role to become the true expression of the political composition acquired by the world over the past 57 years. On behalf of the Dominican Government, we wish to express our satisfaction for the decision taken by the Organization of American States regarding Haiti. Indeed, through its resolution 822 of 4 September 2002, entitled “Support for strengthening democracy in Haiti”, that regional organization decided to support the regularization of economic cooperation between the Haitian Government and international financial institutions. Following the instructions of the President of the Dominican Republic, we appeal to the conscience of the United Nations to proceed in the same manner and to extend its support in reaching those nations capable of generous cooperation with our sister nation. I wish to take this opportunity to share the most recent decisions concerning the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, headquartered in the Dominican Republic, which is one of the few United Nations bodies located in a developing country and the only one working on women's research and training. On 19 December 2001, by resolution 16 56/125, the General Assembly decided to create a working group with the mandate to make recommendations on the future work of the Institute. That working group met eight times in July and August 2002. The Dominican Republic is confident that this session of the General Assembly will accept the working group's recommendations and that the Institute will soon be able to continue to fulfil its mandate. In conclusion, I must recall that, at the beginning of my statement, I reaffirmed the faith of the Dominican people and Government in the mission of the United Nations. This Organization is more necessary today than ever before, at a time when the world is shrinking and when we increasingly need more than one interlocutor to which we can turn when faced with issues that could provoke violence and war. In other words, today more than ever all nations aspire to having an Organization that, through its traditional mandate and its universal scope, can strike a balance among all States for the benefit of genuine democratic security. ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. I am confident that you will guide us wisely through the complex tasks ahead. I would also like to use this opportunity to welcome Switzerland, our long-time friend and partner in the European Free Trade Association, to the United Nations. Furthermore, I would like to express our satisfaction that East Timor will be joining the United Nations later this month. The independence of East Timor is one more example of how, in the end, the purposes and principles of the United Nations prevail. The vicious and deliberately organized terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September of last year have had global implications. The necessity to fight terrorism and the international commitment and determination to do so have dominated the international arena in the past year. Iceland reaffirms its commitment to cooperate with the United Nations and its Member States, as well as with other relevant international organizations, in the fight against terrorism. To that end, we stress the importance for States to ratify and implement all the relevant legal instruments that together contribute to uprooting that menace. We should aim at concluding the draft comprehensive convention against terrorism during this session of the General Assembly. On such important issues as peace and stability, it is often difficult to reach decisions and agree on resolutions here in the United Nations, let alone to ensure that they are implemented. Full implementation of all relevant Security Council resolutions is imperative. It is therefore very encouraging to see that during this session of the General Assembly, we have witnessed that the emerging consensus on how to deal with defiance of Security Council resolutions seems to be having tangible results. Only yesterday, the Iraqi Government informed the United Nations that Iraq has decided to cooperate fully with the Organization and to give weapons inspectors unconditional access to the country. This is certainly a positive sign, but deeds will have to follow. In a recent visit to the Middle East, my belief was confirmed that there must be a much stronger involvement of the international community in the Middle East and involvement of third parties in the efforts to resolve the dispute there. In this regard, Iceland fully supports the efforts of the Quartet, as well as the Saudi proposals. Negotiations on a political settlement must resume; they must not be held hostage to the situation on the ground. Only a comprehensive peace agreement dealing with all aspects of the dispute will guarantee security and prosperity for both Israelis and Palestinians. The occupation of the Palestinian territories must end, in line with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Iceland strongly supports the two-States solution. Israel and Palestine must live side by side in peace within secure and recognised borders. Until a peace agreement has been reached, both parties have to play by certain rules. The sanctity of the lives of innocent civilians has to be respected under all circumstances. This means that the Palestinian Authority must reform itself to deal effectively with terror and pave the way for the establishment of a democratic and accountable Palestinian State. Israel also has to respect international humanitarian law in the occupied Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem. The circumstances on the ground have to change for the better. Otherwise, there is a real danger that the worsening of the economic situation in the occupied Palestinian territories could lead to a humanitarian disaster. Iceland strongly welcomes the entry into force of the Rome Statute establishing the International Criminal Court (ICC). We urge all States that have not already done so to ratify or accede to the Statute with the aim of achieving universality in the fight against impunity for the most serious international crimes. The ICC certainly is one of the major accomplishments of the international community in strengthening the international legal system. Some 10 concerns have been voiced with regard to the possible abuse of the Rome Statute. These concerns should be carefully studied with an open mind and without prejudice to the effective functioning of the ICC. Constant vigilance is needed to ensure respect for human rights and humanitarian law. Our continuous efforts to combat terrorism must not result in any form of human rights violations. All measures taken must be in accordance with international law. Allow me to dwell on human rights issues affecting women and children. Unfortunately, women's rights are sometimes viewed as a purely social issue rather than a human rights issue. More often than not, women are the prime victims of conflicts. Yet their right to participate on an equal footing in peace negotiations and decision-making processes is still not recognized. Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) is meant to change this, and its provisions must be implemented and respected. While progress has been made towards greater gender equality, the situation in many countries is still dire. Trafficking in women has increased, not least in Europe. The resumption of ancient methods of punishment of women in some parts of the world is appalling. Lack of education, information and health care, as well as sexual exploitation, makes women particularly vulnerable to the growing malice of HIV/AIDS. The well-being of children is our responsibility. All over the world, millions of children suffer because of poverty. They are cruelly exploited as child soldiers or labourers. They do not enjoy their right to education and are deprived of the decent life they are entitled to. Iceland therefore welcomed the special session on children held last spring. The participation of children themselves was especially successful. We need to listen to our children and make every effort to implement the declaration and plan of action of the special session, as well as the international Convention on the Rights of the Child. Sustainable development has become an integral part of policies and strategies of local and national governments, international organizations, businesses and non-governmental organizations worldwide. Despite impressive progress made in many fields during the past decade, especially with regard to the environment, millions of people still live in poverty and see little hope of escaping it. It is essential that poorer countries be allowed to enjoy the benefits of their comparative advantages and to put their human resources to work. Trade liberalization and free commerce would be a major contribution to promoting equitable and sustainable growth for the benefit of poorer countries. At the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, world leaders succeeded in generating commitments for action. This is a major accomplishment. It is now up to each and every one of us to see to it that these commitments are implemented. At the Summit, Iceland declared its willingness to increase its bilateral development assistance by providing training in the sustainable management of living marine resources and the use of renewable energy resources. A huge step forward in the development and utilization of renewable, clean energy resources is necessary in order to fulfil the commitments laid down in the Kyoto Protocol. Sustainable management and utilization of all living marine resources is essential for food security and hunger alleviation. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is without doubt one of the greatest achievements of this Organization. For a country like Iceland, which is overwhelmingly dependent on the sustainable utilization of living marine resources, the Convention is of paramount importance. In our view, it is highly appropriate that the General Assembly will devote two days during its fifty-seventh session for commemorating the twentieth anniversary of the opening for signature of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The Convention on the Law of the Sea has gained universal participation, and all the three institutions established by it are functioning in an effective manner. We welcome the entry into force last December of the related Agreement on the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks. It is imperative that both the Convention and the Agreement be ratified by those States that have not done so, that they be fully implemented and that their integrity be preserved. In the Millennium Declaration we resolved to strengthen the United Nations system in order to make it more effective. In this context the revitalization of the General Assembly is important. Reform measures such as the clustering of agenda items and, most recently, the election in advance of the President and Vice-Presidents of the General Assembly and the Chairpersons of the Main Committees, are steps in the right direction. However, we must strive to deepen the reforms on the basis of the Millennium Declaration. In many crisis situations in this past year, as so often before, the Security Council has proven effective and fulfilled a task satisfactorily. However, we must not forget that the reform of the Security Council remains an issue that needs to be resolved. The Council's efficiency in coping with the serious issues on its agenda must be further secured by making necessary changes and adjustments with regard to its composition and working methods. It is essential that the membership of the Council fairly reflect the whole membership of the United Nations. It is also important to further enhance the transparency in the decision-making process. In order to move the reform work forward, all Member States must show flexibility and willingness to compromise. We continue to face serious threats to international peace and stability. The best way to preserve the peace and work for prosperity and democracy in the world is to be steadfast in working in full compliance with the Charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of its organs. No nation shall be allowed to destroy this common endeavour.   ﻿On behalf of the delegation of Jamaica, I express congratulations to you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. We pledge our full cooperation with you in the work of this session. We also express our deep gratitude to the outgoing President, Mr. Han Seung-soo, under whose guidance the fifty-sixth session was successfully completed. Jamaica welcomes the Swiss Confederation as a Member of the family of the United Nations, and we look forward to welcoming East Timor when it assumes membership in the Organization later during this session. Forty years ago on this day, 18 September, Jamaica joined the family of the United Nations as its 106th member. It was one of our first foreign policy initiatives upon achieving independence. In taking that step, Jamaica signalled its readiness to assume its obligations as a member of the international community and to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security and to the promotion 31 of economic and social progress through multilateral cooperation within the United Nations system. Today, on its fortieth anniversary, Jamaica reaffirms its faith in the United Nations and proclaims its unwavering commitment to multilateralism. Over its 40 years Jamaica has played its part through active participation in widening the reach of the United Nations into a range of activities and programmes critical to global development and world peace. Our policy is to support the strengthening of the United Nations system and to uphold its moral authority. In a world of many nations with diverse interests and of great disparities in wealth and military power, it is an indispensable instrument in the promotion of the rule of law in international affairs and in the peaceful settlement of disputes. With the changing nature and growing complexity of international affairs, especially in the context of globalization and with the emergence of new challenges to peace and security, the fulfilment of the United Nations' role remains critical. Now, more than ever before, we need to strengthen the structures and institutions of the international system to safeguard our common interests in achieving a global order of peace and economic and social progress for all. Over the past year, dramatic events have occurred which have brought old and new issues to the forefront of attention. We recall the shock and horror of the terrorist attacks on 11 September; the ensuing war in Afghanistan; the outbreak of renewed violence in the Middle East between Israelis and Palestinians; the escalation of old tensions in South Asia; and more recently, the threat of a new war in Iraq. All of these were given special attention by the Secretary-General in the presentation of his report to the General Assembly last Thursday. Jamaica commends the Secretary-General for the clarity of his vision on the role of the United Nations in the resolution of current global problems. Of high importance on the agenda for immediate action is the situation in the Middle East, where recently we have witnessed so much death, destruction and human suffering, particularly among civilians. It should now be clear that the only true way to find peace and security is through laying the foundations for a just and durable settlement. What is needed now is a plan to move the process forward towards the convening of a peace conference. There has emerged a significant level of consensus on the main elements of a settlement — the withdrawal of Israel from occupied Palestinian territory; the exercise of self-determination for the Palestinian people and the establishment of arrangements for the two States of Israel and Palestine to coexist within clearly defined and internationally recognized boundaries. We believe it is important and urgent that advantage is taken of the present situation of relative calm to proceed towards negotiations involving the leadership of Israel and the Palestinian Authority. With regard to Iraq, which has been the subject of so much debate in recent weeks, it is up to the Security Council to carry out its responsibilities in a manner broadly acceptable to the international community and to preclude unilateral actions that could lead to unpredictable consequences and to wider instability in the region. This is an important moment for the United Nations, and we expect the Security Council to act in accordance with the Charter to safeguard the integrity of the international system and to ensure the maintenance of peace. To make the world a safer place requires measures to be adopted on a broad front. The elimination of terrorism is a task requiring cooperation by the entire international community. The comprehensive measures set out in Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) establish the framework for action, and Jamaica is doing its part in that effort. At the same time, it should be recognized that for achievement of the long-term objectives, it is necessary to address the root causes of terrorism in their political, economic, social and psychological dimensions. It is also important that, in the campaign against terrorism, there should be no targeting or stigmatizing of particular ethnic groups or religious communities; nor should it become the basis for intolerance, persecution or discrimination against minority groups or for the violation of human rights. Linked to the question of terrorism are security problems arising from the continued growth in the illicit trade in narcotics and the illicit transfer of guns and other weapons which have become inseparable elements in the operations of transnational crime. This is particularly the case in the Caribbean, where this phenomenon has assumed alarming proportions in the era of globalization. A growing network of illicit trade has developed in drugs and weapons, which is subverting the internal security of our Caribbean States 32 and threatening social stability. We acknowledge ongoing efforts at the regional and bilateral levels to address these security concerns, but more needs to be done, particularly in regulating, monitoring and reporting transfers in small arms in jurisdictions in which these weapons are produced. These are some of the negative features that accompany globalization and add to the problems facing developing countries. The globalization of trade, finance and the means of production presents even greater challenges. The contraction of overall development assistance (ODA) and foreign direct investment flows, and the volatility in short-term capital flows, have resulted over time in declining growth rates and increasing poverty, thus widening the gap between rich and poor countries. The opportunities for economic growth and prosperity promised by globalization have, therefore, not materialized for the majority. Instead, developing countries have been placed in peril in a system in which survival will remain an uphill struggle against dislocation and marginalization. Without some arrangement to promote greater equity in the sharing of the benefits of globalization, we will witness a pattern of continued enrichment of only those endowed with the resources, capital stocks and technology, who can reap the advantages of competitiveness. In this context, the very important forums held during the past year, which sought to advance the development agenda, were both timely and welcome. At Doha last November, there was some acknowledgement of the wide differences in levels of development and capacity of States, and the consequential need for special and differential treatment for developing countries. We look forward to having these principles incorporated into the architecture of World Trade Organization rules. This, for us, would be an important step in pursuing a development dimension within the trade agenda. Since trade is the engine of development, it is vital that real opportunities be made available in export markets for developing country products, without the barriers, in various forms, which continue to hamper market access and restrict the expansion of exports. There should also be significant strengthening of productive capacity through new investment and capital transfers to developing countries. At Monterrey in March, we sought to put in place a framework for the more effective mobilization of resources for development from many critical sources. Some indications were given of ODA increases, which we welcome, although these still fall below the agreed targets. In the absence of a system of global governance that would assure equity in investment opportunity and protection from the volatility of private financial flows, official sources of finance remain a critical form of development assistance. It is, therefore, important that these new resources are made available to achieve concrete results without the complications of conditionalities and selective processing. As we pursue implementation of the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha Agenda, we also look forward to progress in the democratization of the decision- making process within the international system for finance and trade. For it is only when developing countries are accorded fair space and an effective voice in the setting of international finance and trade policies that we will begin to see greater equity in the distribution of the world's wealth. Most recently, in Johannesburg, we embraced a new opportunity to advance the sustainable development agenda by furthering progress in the implementation of Agenda 21. We welcome the important new targets agreed, which give fuller expression to the commitment of the international community to the Millennium Development Goals. The real test will be to see whether the commitments are translated into action, through the mobilization of resources, to meet the requirements of the programme and the targets that have been set. Johannesburg is thus the climax of an important year that reshaped and refocused the development priorities of the global community for the new millennium. For sustainable development will not be achieved without financing for development, nor without a development agenda in trade. Jamaica welcomes in particular the commitments made at Johannesburg in respect of small island developing States (SIDS). We continue to underscore the need for special attention to be paid to the challenges of vulnerability faced by SIDS. What is needed is a fair opportunity to secure the welfare of our people, and to protect our fragile environment. This cannot be achieved without the full support of the international community. The Barbados Programme of Action, adopted in 1994, represented that commitment of support. As we now prepare to review its implementation in 2004, we encourage 33 renewed engagement on those issues critical to our very survival, such as the dangers posed by global warming, sea level rise and natural disasters. Jamaica welcomes the positive indications for Africa, where the reduction of political conflict and turmoil offers a real opportunity for building stability and economic progress. Africa has suffered for far too long from a myriad of difficult problems and should be given a new start. The formation of the African Union and the inauguration of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) are commendable initiatives aimed at bringing Africa closer to the mainstream of international development, at containing the HIV/AIDS pandemic and at combating the spread of poverty. What are really needed now are resources and we urge that every effort be made to ensure that the new initiatives achieve a breakthrough for African development. In the field of social development and human rights, the United Nations has made significant achievements in extending and promoting the rights of persons in vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. Notwithstanding those achievements, the Organization is faced with growing social challenges, including the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which threaten to reverse decades of progress in many parts of the world. Concerted action to control the spread of this disease should remain a priority of the Organization. So too should be the protection of the rights of children. The specific time-bound targets adopted during the special session on children require our unequivocal commitment. One of the important areas of contribution on the part of the United Nations is in the development of international law as a means of promoting universally accepted rules and the creation of multilateral legal regimes to achieve common goals. The most recent achievement is the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court (ICC), which came into force in July 2002. Another outstanding example is the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. This year, the international community will be observing the 20th Anniversary of its signing, which took place at Montego Bay, Jamaica on 10 December 1982. The immense significance of this Convention in safeguarding the interests of all countries, in the exploitation of ocean resources, and in maritime issues has been widely acknowledged. We applaud the work being carried out by the two institutions that have evolved out of the Convention — the International Seabed Authority (ISA), which is entrusted with the implementation of the concept of the common heritage of mankind, and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, which is the forum for resolving maritime disputes under the Convention. This is a good example of the result of working together to achieve common solutions through a multilateral process to advance the common interest. It shows that the United Nations is working. We should safeguard and strengthen it as the guardian of our common future.﻿I would like to begin by extending our sincere congratulations to you, Sir, both personally and as a representative of the Czech Republic, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty- seventh session. I am confident that, at this important juncture of developing collective global action, you will steer the work of this session with your recognized ability and wisdom, stemming from your country's long experience in confronting aggression and the horrors it brings. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, our friend Han Seung-soo, and to his country, the Republic of Korea, whose positive and effective role led to results that we aspire to consolidate. I cannot fail to express our deep appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who for the past six years has contributed his experience, wisdom and perseverance to reasserting the standing of the Organization and the effectiveness of its role, and to strengthening the principles upon which the Charter was founded. He did all of that despite the inherent obstacles that were placed before him, either deliberately or unwittingly, by those ignorant of the key role of the United Nations in providing victors and vanquished alike an opportunity to benefit from the developments of the age and to achieve the hopes and aspiration of their peoples to a world that is safer and more just for all. I wish to pay further tribute to the Secretary-General for the very courageous statement he made yesterday before the Assembly, a statement in which he set out his very clear vision in addressing and resolving the world's problems. On behalf of Egypt, I would also like to welcome Switzerland as the most recent member of the United Nations family. We look forward to its active participation in the work of the Organization, along with that of Timor-Leste, which will soon accede to membership. The current session has been convened one year after the horrific tragedy that befell the United Sates on 11 September 2001. We reiterate our condolences to the United States. We also emphasize the sense of loss we share with the families of the victims, and we wish the injured a speedy recovery. We hope that this strong nation will overcome its ordeal and look towards a future of cooperation with the rest of the world, a future forged by all of us for the benefit of all the inhabitants of the planet, regardless of their race or religion, without discrimination, intolerance or bias. Egypt has stood by the United States throughout this difficult ordeal, whose target was not only a friendly country but also the values and principles to which we all adhere and which relate to respect for humankind and its right to life and to choosing to build rather than to destroy as the basis for joint action. In that regard, I would like to briefly make the following points. First, notwithstanding the gravity of the tragic events that took place on that sad day, the world neither began nor ended on 11 September. Many peoples have known terrorism before. They have suffered from it and have resisted it sometimes alone in the face of hardship and even unjustified criticism. What is new is that the heinous crime of 11 September has generated an unprecedented wave of constructive international solidarity. It has confirmed what we have been stating all along: that terrorism is a global phenomenon and that it is not associated with any particular country, continent, race or religion. It is an expression of a propensity for evil that remains dormant until the opportunity presents itself, either from within or due to prevailing circumstances, for it to awaken and wreak havoc. Thus, it is important to repeat the call that President Mubarak has been making for a number of years; for the convening of an international conference in which participating nations would shoulder their responsibility to confront terrorism. That would lend authority to the overwhelming wave of solidarity extended to the United States in its hour of grief and agony. Secondly, the fight against terrorism should not be the lens through which the world views every issue and every problem. Terrorism is one of the evil phenomena of the world, but it should not cause us to forget the evils of poverty, disease, occupation, the denial of individual and national rights or the humiliation of human beings and the destruction of their livelihood by means of bombs or any other 6 similarly harmful means. Terrorism has roots and causes, but not justifications. I believe that, in most cases, a viable remedy for terrorism can be found only if we drain the tributaries of hopelessness, anger and frustration that feed the river of evil; otherwise their confluence can become explosive. Thirdly, it is both necessary and fair that we not confuse those who are unjust with those who are unjustly treated. The international community should not confuse terrorism which we reject, condemn and fight with the legitimate right of self-defence in conformity with norms compatible with our values: the right to defend oneself against aggression, occupation, the usurpation of rights or attempts to erase cultural identity. That right was exercised by the resistance that liberated the United States more than two centuries ago and by that which liberated Europe from the Nazi tyranny that initiated the Holocaust but ended by perishing in its fire. Humanity and right were thus victorious. I would like here to reiterate what everybody knows: no religion Islam, Christianity, Judaism or Buddhism preaches terrorism. Those are all religions that proclaim lofty values and ideals. It is inappropriate to blame them for the sins of a few of their followers who have gone astray. Our fight against terrorism should proceed from our collective solidarity in cherishing life, and not from hatred, which is neither a solution nor a refuge. The world is at an extremely delicate juncture in its history. We are at a crossroads in international relations. The enhancement of the Organization's capacity to respond to the hopes and aspirations that arose after the end of the cold war and its divisions coincided with a trend towards neglecting that very capacity, a deepening of new divisions and a resort to unilateral decisions. Such a trend can lead only to deadlock and prevent us from addressing issues that may determine the fate of humanity and its ability to reconcile itself with nature and with advanced technology and to take the opportunities that they provide for the achievement of a better life free from poverty, want, disease, oppression and fear a life in which justice and solidarity prevail. We must therefore break this deadlock, which is of benefit to no party or cause, by renewing our commitment to the Charter and reaffirming our determination to work together to strengthen the United Nations, enhance its effectiveness, promote its principles and champion its purposes in confronting both the old and the new dangers that face our world. One of these dangers is the persistence of hotbeds of conflict and violence in the world, including the conflict from which we in the Middle East are suffering. I would like to read out the statement made yesterday by the President of Egypt, Mr. Hosni Mubarak. He said: I listened attentively to the statement made by President Bush to the General Assembly, and I would like to welcome the positive elements in that statement. First, I welcome the affirmation by the President of the United States that the United States is committed to the establishment of an independent Palestinian State, side by side with Israel, and that all the parties must assume their responsibilities in order to achieve that goal. We hope that the peace process will receive a strong impetus through effective participation by the United States, leading to a return of stability to the area and to a just and comprehensive peace as early as possible. Secondly, with regard to Iraq, I welcome the fact that the United States has opened the door to the pivotal role that must be played by the United Nations, in particular the Security Council, on the question of Iraq. Such a course of action will break the deadlock and prevent any negative effects resulting from the escalation of the situation, thus maintaining the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. In view of this, I am calling on the Iraqi leadership to make use of this opportunity to implement all the relevant Security Council resolutions and accept the return of the inspectors immediately so that we can prevent an escalation of the situation and the dangerous consequences that would have a very negative impact on the security and safety of the brotherly Iraqi people and of the Middle East as a whole.' The Palestinian people continue to suffer under an oppressive occupation that rejects the judgement of history, embodied by the Charter, that the age of colonialism has long gone. It is an occupation that clings to policies reminiscent of those of the era of darkness and chaos and may even bring us back to that 7 era. The Arabs have extended their hand to Israel with a unanimously adopted initiative that reflects their genuine belief in a peace that guarantees without exceptions or double standards the rights of all. If Israel genuinely desires peace, it must abandon its greed and illusions, put a stop to its practices and aggressive acts against the Palestinian people and their legitimate leadership and agree to withdraw from all Arab territories occupied in 1967 in Palestine, Syria and Lebanon. An independent Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as its capital, can then be established and can join all the Arab States that have demonstrated their readiness to establish normal relations with Israel and live with it in peace and security. Justice, right, mutual respect and the restoration to people of their rights were the building blocks on which peace between Egypt and Israel was established, securing safe borders and normal relations during the past 25 years. The other model, however, which Israel has espoused with respect to our brethren in Palestine, has achieved neither peace nor security; rather, it has resulted in victims on both sides, who fall each day, paying the price for an attempt to obstruct the natural course of events. The international community must assume its responsibility in this regard without prejudice, striving only for what is right; unswerving, moving only towards justice; and without ambition, except for a peace that will allow the peoples of the region to forge a better future. It must reaffirm the necessity of abiding by the Charter, United Nations resolutions and the agreements that have been signed, and must reject any attempt to abandon them. The debate on security and stability in the Middle East relates also to the situation in Iraq a situation that must be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Charter and relevant resolutions, which all parties must respect, steering away from a course of military action. Egypt reaffirms its rejection of military strikes against Iraq, whose unity and territorial integrity must be respected and which, for its part, must respect the legitimate international will. We must do everything in our power to put an end to the extreme suffering of the people of Iraq. We must end the embargo, which has inflicted great harm upon Iraq, negatively affecting and the livelihood of its citizens and damaging future generations. Any discussion of the United Nations, its achievements and its future would be incomplete without recalling the tangible contributions of the Organization to focusing attention on the major issues of our times and forging an international consensus on some of them. This contribution has been realized through a series of conferences convened during the last decade of the twentieth century and the first years of this century on the environment, human rights, population, social development, women, financing for development and sustainable development. It has been achieved also through the recommendations of the Millennium Summit of the General Assembly, which attempted to shape a conceptual framework for the Organization's work, based on peace and security for nations and individuals, economic and social development in its comprehensive sense, equality among States and respect for the cultural diversity of nations and societies. In this regard, I would like to reaffirm the importance of the faithful implementation, in both letter and spirit, of the outcomes of those conferences. It is also important that no attempt is made to evade or circumvent those mutual obligations. Ultimately, the judgement of history will be based not on the intentions or objectives contained in political declarations and final documents, but rather on the extent of our success in implementing them. their implementation. Any just consideration of the international economic situation must conclude that it is unacceptable to continue the present disparities in the distribution of wealth among the peoples of the Earth, the lack of democracy in international economic decision-making and the persistence of arbitrary trade practices and monetary policies against the interests of developing countries, which have often led to successive financial crises and resulted in the economic collapse of many developing countries and the destruction, in a matter of days, of the development gains made over decades of arduous national effort. Our African continent and its issues occupy a special place in the international community's efforts aimed at achieving economic and social development and maintaining international peace and security in accordance with the collective responsibilities we all assume under the Charter. These efforts proceed from a firm conviction that the United Nations, the Security Council in particular, has primary responsibility for the 8 maintenance of peace and security in that continent. They also proceed from our conviction that we, as African States, are indispensable partners that bear a special responsibility to resolve the conflicts that fragment our continent and to formulate the programmes that would extricate our peoples from the anguish of poverty to join the course of progress and prosperity. Our continent has demonstrated its seriousness by launching the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), which was endorsed by African heads of State at the Lusaka Summit of the Organization of African Unity in 2001, and the African Union, which was inaugurated at the Summit held in Durban in July 2002. If by embracing these two initiatives African States have adopted an approach to building their future on the basis of the highest ideals reflecting the noblest human thinking, then the international community for its part should support that approach in order to provide a better life for Africa's peoples, open markets for its products, inject foreign investment into its economies and assist it to solve its problems. The persistence of volatile conflicts and the danger of the possession by States, organizations or individuals of weapons of mass destruction make it incumbent upon us to be more diligent on disarmament issues. At the regional level, Egypt has repeatedly called for serious engagement to rid the Middle East of all weapons of mass destruction, first and foremost nuclear weapons, and to place all nuclear facilities in the region, without exception, under international supervision. Peace and security cannot be established in the Middle East while a grave disparity persists in the rights and obligations of the States of the region, which upsets its balance of power. Regional stability will be achieved only when Israel accedes to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), because it is the only State in the region that has not yet done so. Such stability will also be attained through progress towards the implementation of President Mubarak's initiative to rid the Middle East of all weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. In addition, the world confronts other ills that represent both a challenge and an opportunity for us to demonstrate our ability to work together for the good of all. Efforts to combat endemic diseases have fallen short. Countries around the world suffer from the spread of HIV/AIDS, which threatens their stability; owing to their lack of capacity and resources they are unable to contain the pandemic, thus necessitating assistance for those countries in dealing with the crisis. The world also confronts numerous environmental challenges such as those related to biodiversity, climate change, drought and desertification, all of which require the redoubling of international efforts to address them in order to safeguard the right of future generations to a secure life. Scarcity of water threatens the eruption of conflicts in several regions of the world. The international community must therefore maximize the benefit from, and the proper management of, available water resources while respecting and protecting the acquired rights of States and the international agreements that govern the rights to utilize those resources. The sheer size, complexity and scope of all these problems may lead some to yield to pessimism and frustration, but we are confident that the forces of good in the world, armed with the noble principles of the Charter to which we come here every year to reiterate our commitment will remain resolute in their determination to fashion a better tomorrow. We are confident that humankind will overcome the propensity for evil so that together we can forge ahead towards frontiers made possible by unprecedented technological progress at the outset of the twenty-first century, progress which God has commanded us to dedicate to our collective well-being so that the world can live in peace, security, prosperity and harmony. This will allow the young to flourish, potential to emerge, hope to overcome fear and pain, light to prevail over darkness and humankind to triumph over all that hinders its happiness, freedom and advancement.﻿We have before us an array of issues that are as compelling and daunting as ever before. Many of these threaten to widen further the divides that separate us and deepen more the wounds that pain us. They challenge ever so severely our resolve to live in peace and harmony. But we remain hopeful. Under the President's leadership and guidance, we are confident that our deliberations will be purposeful and productive. Toward this, I assure the President of the full cooperation of my delegation. I take this opportunity to express our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo for his stewardship and contribution to the work of the fifty-sixth session. His presidency, at a most challenging time in the history of the United Nations, has enhanced the esteem of the international community for him and the Republic of Korea. My delegation takes great pleasure in welcoming the Swiss Confederation and the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste as they take their rightful place in our family of nations. While we welcome the admission of Timor-Leste as a newly independent State, it is with a sense of deep satisfaction that we appreciate the decision of the Swiss people. It is an affirmation of their faith in the relevance and indispensability of the United Nations. They, more than any other people, have observed and studied with active participation the workings of this world body. As a country for which the United Nations will always be critically important, Bhutan is indeed deeply heartened. The loss of lives and untold suffering and destruction wrought by the senseless acts of 11 September have united all of humanity against the evil of terrorism in all its manifestations. No clear orientation towards international peace and development is possible without uprooting this disease that has been allowed to afflict many of our societies. The United Nations must continue to play a central and decisive role in directing our collective resolve and efforts to eradicate terrorism. While in our own countries we must each take all possible measures to rid ourselves of this menace, we know that it is through the multilateral framework that our national, regional and global efforts can be effectively and rightly coordinated. It is imperative that in our battle against terrorism, the norms and principles of this hallowed institution are not undermined. Our war on terrorism must continue to unite us. The realization of a new economic order that is inclusive, equitable and sustainable remains the most pressing challenge of the United Nations. The scourge of poverty and disease continue to afflict millions of people around the world. My delegation is compelled to reiterate its concern over the decline in official development assistance (ODA) and the parallel emphasis on market efficiency and trade as an engine of growth. We realize that trade underpins equal partnership and should represent the ultimate goal of economic development strategies. However, not all countries 12 have the necessary capacity to take advantage of the global trading system. Without timely and adequate assistance to fill the resource gap to meet their basic development priorities, many of the developing countries will continue to suffer from marginalization. Clearly, there is a need to create a fair and equitable trading environment without prejudice to the flow of adequate Official Development Assistance. In particular, the special needs and vulnerabilities of least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing states must be comprehensively addressed to enable them to effectively integrate into the global economic system. In Africa, the international community must lend its full support to extricate the continent from the malaise of underdevelopment and to prevent its further marginalization. In this context, Bhutan welcomes the endorsement of the New Economic Partnership for Africa's Development by the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly and hopes that the international community will provide the necessary support to this programme. This is particularly significant for those countries emerging from conflict, in which the rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure is vital if peace is to be sustained. There is no lack of vision and strategies to overcome the socio-economic maladies that confront the global community. The Millennium Declaration Goals provide clear targets and strategies to reduce poverty, achieve sustainable development and reverse the devastating trend of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. What we need is greater political will. I wish to acknowledge the contributions of the United Nations and bilateral donors to the development of my country. We are grateful to our partners not only for the substantial amount of assistance we have received over the years, but for the acceptance of our insistence on being the master of our own destiny. Our partnership is characterized by a frank and open political dialogue of high intensity, while the cooperative arrangements at all levels are marked by a notable degree of transparency. My country continues to be guided by our goal of promoting gross national happiness' as opposed to simply targeting the enhancement of our gross national product as the end of development. We believe that it is the responsibility of the Government to create an enabling environment within which every citizen would have a reasonable opportunity to find happiness. Towards this end, all our development strategies must subscribe to strengthening of the four pillars of gross national happiness, which are: first, the ensuring of equitable and sustainable socio-economic development; secondly, conservation of our fragile mountain ecology; thirdly, promotion of basic human values and culture; and fourthly, the strengthening of good governance. It is my belief that those are the pillars on which the happiness of our human society can be firmly established. While I am fully aware that Bhutan is certainly not unique in its pursuit of happiness, I express the hope that more among us will join in that search with a greater sense of seriousness.  ﻿At the outset, I wish to join other speakers in warmly congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. My delegation offers you its full support to the presidency's work. I also wish to pay 26 tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his able guidance of the last session. It gives me great pleasure to salute here Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the two new Members of the United Nations, the Swiss Confederation and the Democratic Republic of East Timor. Turkey is firmly convinced that, throughout this new century, the need for the United Nations will increasingly grow. It is the only multilateral Organization with universal membership dedicated to the noble aims of maintaining peace and international security, addressing global issues and establishing standards that should apply to all. Exactly a year ago, evil in its worst form struck New York and Washington, D.C. Since the tragedy of 11 September, it has become amply clear that terrorist organizations have much broader international networks than anticipated. Terrorism has many names and faces and recognizes no boundaries. This is a phenomenon that is not confined to and cannot be identified with any particular geography, religion, race or culture. Terrorism is the most blatant violation of human rights. Nothing can ever justify terrorism and there can be no leniency towards it. Turkey has been calling for years for intensified international cooperation against terrorism. We have been actively engaged in the work of the United Nations to fight this scourge and we commend the ongoing efforts. Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), in particular, provides a clear road map with regard to the steps that need to be taken to combat terrorism more effectively. It is incumbent upon all Member States to adopt existing international legislation and to review their relevant national laws accordingly. We urge those States that have not yet done so to become parties to the 12 international conventions on specific terrorist offences. We also look forward to the completion of the work on a comprehensive convention against international terrorism. Preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping have gained even more priority in this era of new conflicts. Turkey has been actively participating in the efforts of the United Nations in conflict prevention and plays a significant role within peace missions mandated by the United Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Hence, we commend the efforts of the Secretary-General to ensure prompt reaction to emerging crises and welcome the manifold considerations contained in his report (A/55/985) on the prevention of armed conflicts. My country took over the command of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Kabul at an extremely critical juncture. We take pride in fulfilling that task and thank the other contributing nations. Indeed, all ISAF personnel are serving with a strong sense of purpose and mission. Traditionally a close friend of the Afghans, Turkey has contributed for many years to the rehabilitation of Afghanistan. We salute the performance of the Transitional Authority under the leadership of His Excellency Mr. Hamid Karzai, the Afghan President. Today we must rapidly embark upon real and tangible development efforts in Afghanistan. It is with this understanding that Turkey provides the Afghan people with assistance that is directed at developing their national potential. Likewise, efforts to build the Afghan national army and the police force as well as solidarity and unity among the ethnic groups are of crucial importance. We feel strongly that the international community should fulfil its commitments adopted at the Tokyo International Conference on Reconstruction Assistance to Afghanistan. support His Excellency Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, the Special Representative of the Secretary- General for Afghanistan, in his efforts to secure greater financial assistance. The United Nations is to be commended for successfully spearheading reconstruction activity. Turkey is located in close proximity to many of the existing conflict spots and potential new threats that are high on the United Nations agenda. Accordingly, we are closely interested in promoting peace, stability and prosperity in our part of the world, particularly in the Balkans, the Middle East and the Caucasus. We have been witnessing positive changes in the political and security environment of the Balkans. The multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multicultural fabric of the Balkan countries must be preserved. We believe now is the right time for the word Balkans' to be freed from its negative connotation and be made to 27 stand for such positive concepts as ethnic harmony, mutual respect and peaceful cohabitation. We hope that the elections in the Republic of Macedonia, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and those to be held in a few weeks' time in Kosovo, will be instrumental in shaping a better future for the Balkans. Our resolve to further improve our relations with Greece through the current process of constructive dialogue remains intact. We seek to encourage and foster the spirit of friendship and cooperation so that we can make further progress. In that respect, the two countries signed a number of bilateral documents. As for the Aegean Sea, we believe that Turkish-Greek relations have indeed reached a level of maturity that could enable us to address the issues at hand on a bilateral basis. To that end, we have been discussing certain confidence-building measures and have agreed on some. We are also encouraged by the ongoing exploratory contacts. Regarding Cyprus, we continue to support the efforts aimed at finding a just, viable, lasting and complete settlement. Cyprus is an issue between the two equal, distinct peoples on the island, namely the Turkish Cypriots and the Greek Cypriots, each of which lives under its own political and democratic structures. The two peoples of Cyprus should be able to coexist and share power under a new partnership State structure on the basis of the equal status and sovereign equality of the two partner States. We will continue to support the current direct talks between the two leaders in Cyprus, which enable the two parties to search for comprehensive reconciliation without any third-party involvement. We believe that equal treatment of both sides will foster an environment that will encourage them to move towards a new partnership of equals, excluding the possibility of reverting to the situation that existed before 1974. We support the recent Turkish Cypriot proposals, which provide a sound and realistic basis for a settlement. We believe that the international community should give due consideration to these proposals, which open a new window of opportunity for the resolution of this longstanding issue. The decision of the European Union Council to start accession negotiations with the Greek Cypriot administration, despite the illegitimacy of its claim to represent the whole island, has made an agreed settlement even more elusive. Unfortunately, the Greek Cypriot focus so far has been totally diverted to European Union membership. Membership prior to settlement would create many problems and would lead to tensions on the island and in the eastern Mediterranean in general. We have reiterated that a unilateral Greek Cypriot entry into the European Union would harm the chances for a mutually agreed settlement establishing a new partnership between the two parties. The European Union must tell the Greek Cypriots that they will not be admitted before a final settlement. That is essential if we are to make meaningful progress towards resolving the Cyprus issue. In the aftermath of 11 September, peace and stability in the Middle East have gained even more importance and urgency. Yet the present outlook of the ongoing conflict does not leave much room for optimism. Violence persists, taking a huge toll on both sides. This year has been marked by successive terrorist attacks on Israeli civilians and the disproportionate use of force by Israel against the Palestinians. The occupation of Palestinian towns and the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure have only exacerbated the already difficult living conditions of the Palestinian people. The parameters of peace in the Middle East are embedded in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). Those resolutions have now been given fuller meaning with the adoption of Council resolution 1397 (2001), laying out the vision of two States living side by side within secure boundaries. The international community is also encouraged by the Arab League plan adopted at its Beirut Summit, based on a vision of the coexistence of all States in the region through the full implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. Likewise, the 24 June statement of the United States President charts the contours of a process that will lead to the two-State objective. The international community should engage itself in encouraging and persuading all parties to the Middle East conflict on the road to lasting peace. The initiatives of the quartet' are welcome, and Turkey, as a regional facilitator, is ready to offer its assistance in whatever way may be necessary. We need a 28 relaunching of the peace process, and Turkey stands ready to host a meeting to that end. More than a decade after the liberation of Kuwait, the Iraqi problem remains unresolved. The repercussions of the Gulf war still prevail. The adverse effects of that situation on the people of Iraq, on Turkey and on the region as a whole are increasing. The only way out for Iraq is to cooperate fully with the United Nations by implementing the relevant Security Council resolutions. Turkey has been encouraging Iraq in that direction. We would like to see an Iraq whose territorial integrity and political unity are preserved and which is peacefully reintegrated into the international community. The Caucasus is another area of close interest for Turkey. We aim to help in establishing comprehensive cooperation in the region. However, the unresolved conflicts in Nagorny-Karabakh and Abkhazia still stand as principal obstacles to political stability and economic development. The Security Council has adopted four resolutions urging the immediate withdrawal of all troops from the Azerbaijani territories, with which Armenia has not complied. Being an active member of the Minsk Group, Turkey is working for a peaceful resolution of the Nagorny-Karabakh conflict within the framework of the OSCE. We initiated a tripartite meeting among the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Turkey in May. The Abkhazian conflict still endangers peace and stability in Georgia and in the entire region. From the outset, Turkey has supported the peaceful resolution of the conflict within the framework of the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Georgia. In addition to the challenges of building national structures and of achieving economic growth, the young States of Central Asia have faced a set of new threats: radical religious movements, terrorist activities, drugs and weapons trafficking. After the tragedy of 11 September, the international community finally acknowledged the importance of stability in the region and of the need to support reform efforts. Transition to full democracy in Central Asia should be seen as a process to be completed gradually as nation- building, political stability and economic conditions are enhanced. The United Nations is the vehicle for the realization of global expectations. We know that its future rests to a great extent on its responsiveness to the crisis of development in societies which have fallen behind. As things stand, the process of globalization, the dominant force of our time, has amply shown its inherent weaknesses, which are apt to create profound issues of imbalance and inequality. A case can be made in favour of globalization's ability to raise the level of prosperity, to reduce poverty and to enhance liberties. However, the fears of the masses cannot be completely allayed without evidence of more responsive management of that process. Conflict, poverty, discrimination and injustice still blight the lives of millions in every part of the globe. More than 80 countries now have per capita incomes lower than those of a decade or more ago. Poverty is an offence to the conscience of the modern world. In view of all those considerations, Africa has a special and urgent claim to global engagement and concern. My country supports efforts aimed at alleviating problems that afflict that continent. At this gathering, I wish to salute the birth of the African Union. We hope that Africans will thus be able to work more effectively to attain their goals. In the same vein, Turkey has attributed great importance to the achievement of the goals and principles adopted initially at the 1992 Rio Conference on Environment and Development and compiled under Agenda 21. They have been our guidelines in combating poverty and in protecting the global environment throughout the last decade, which has brought us to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, recently held in Johannesburg. Before I conclude, I wish to underline one very important aspect of our foreign policy. Fifty years after the cornerstone was laid, the integration of Europe is gaining further momentum. The dynamic of European Union enlargement is opening up new horizons. The recognition of Turkey as a candidate for accession to the European Union has ushered in a new era in relations between Turkey and the European Union. Turkey is determined to be part of the historic process of unifying Europe. The past decade has presented us with many threats to security. Each has created its own challenge. But one fundamental lesson can be drawn from them 29 all: no single State or organization is able to meet those modern challenges on its own. We need to work together closely. The United Nations is the very forum in which we can achieve international cooperation and harmonization to meet those challenges. As always, Turkey stands ready to do its utmost to contribute to the realization of its noble goals.   ﻿At the outset, I would like to express to you, Sir, our warmest congratulations on your election to the presidency of this session and to wish you every success conducting the affairs of this session. Your ample diplomatic skills are well known. I wish also to thank your predecessor for his good conduct of the preceding session. I also wish to extend my thanks to His Excellency the Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan for the quality of 30 the report that he presented to us on the work of our Organization and to wish him further success in the discharge of his tasks. I am pleased in this connection to convey to you and all the participants in this session the greetings of His Excellency President Abdullah Saleh of Yemen, and his sincere wish that the work of this session be highly successful, particularly when it is convening under grave and internationally important circumstances. This fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly of the United Nations is being held while the world still vividly remembers the terrorist acts and the tragic and terrifying disaster, which befell the United States on 11 September 2001 and which represented a grave development in terrorist acts. This awakened the international community, requiring it to mobilize all its potential to face that threat to international peace and stability. The proliferation of international terrorism and the exorbitant price it has imposed on many peoples and States, including my country, has made fighting terrorism an obligation and a responsibility for safeguarding peace, stability and development. My country was among the first States to suffer from terrorism and its harmful repercussions still affect us. We have not hesitated to face that danger. Prior to the September 2001 events, we drew the attention of the international community to the need to unify efforts to combat terrorism and eradicate it before it took root. While doing its best to combat terrorism, my country has emphasized the need to convene an international conference on terrorism under the auspices of the United Nations so that we can reach a unified definition thereof. We emphasize the need to distinguish between terrorism and the right of peoples to resist occupation. We need to end the causes that create a fertile climate for fostering terrorism. Israeli violence and terrorism levelled against the defenceless Palestinian people constitute a genuine obstacle to the achievement of a just and comprehensive peace and create hotbeds of extremism and terrorism. Such violence impedes international efforts and initiatives to solve the Middle East question, while threatening stability, security and prosperity in the region. It also increases the incidence of violence and extremism and presages unpredictable consequences. Consequently, the international community must exert the utmost pressure on Israel to implement Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002), and General Assembly resolution 194 (III) of 1948 and to withdraw from all occupied Arab territories — Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese — and return to the 4 June 1967 borders. The international community must work towards establishing a Palestinian State, with Al-Quds Al- Sharif as its capital. We reiterate our position that the Arab peace initiative constitutes an integrated framework for the achievement of peace. Peace for Israel will not be achieved unless it withdraws from the occupied Palestinian territories, helps to re-establish the Palestinian security institutions and grants the Palestinian Authority control over its own territory. We stress that the Palestinian people are solely responsible for choosing their leadership and representatives for negotiating a final settlement. In this connection, we look forward to the outcome of the efforts led by the United States and the other members of the “quartet” to solve the Middle East question. We hope that the United States vision will be transformed into a time-bound programme that will lay down guidelines to prevent Israel from circumventing any new agreement, as it did those of Oslo, Camp David and Sharm el-Sheikh, through recent statements by Sharon. Since the Republic of Yemen is interested in the security and stability of the Middle East, we emphasize the need for Israel to get rid of its nuclear arsenal and to subject its nuclear facilities to international supervision. Israel should strive to free the Middle East region of weapons of mass destruction. The policy of imposing sanctions on some Arab and Islamic countries, Iraq in particular, should be tackled to ease the considerable harm done to the Iraqi people. Here, I emphasize my country's position that the sanctions imposed on Iraq should be lifted. We reject the use of force against Iraq as long as it abides by international resolutions. Yemen warns of the gravity of using force against Iraq. We also warn of the disastrous consequences for the region if force is used and if waging war takes precedence over solving the problem peacefully. A peaceful approach, such as bringing back the inspectors and clearing up the doubts about Iraq's possession of weapons of mass destruction, should be taken. We call for the lifting of sanctions against Libya, Sudan and 31 Cuba and for continuing dialogue as a means to achieve fair settlements, to safeguard the rights of the concerned parties and to respect their sovereignty and systems of government. Based on our interest in the situation in Somalia and our endeavours to achieve peace and stability there, we call on the international community to intensify its efforts to bring peace to that country and to support the peace process led by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, so as to preserve the security, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Somalia. We are ready to contribute to this international political endeavour. My country is of the view that current efforts to reform and restructure the United Nations, including Security Council reform, should enhance the Organization's role and achieve broader participation and more equitable representation in the Council, in keeping with the principles of the sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical distribution. Yemen attaches great importance to the Millennium Declaration adopted during the Millennium Summit. It paves the way to new relations in the twenty-first century; it calls for encouraging dialogue among civilizations and for the spread of the culture of peace; and it calls on richer States to shoulder their responsibility towards least developed countries in facing the challenges of poverty and deadly disease. In fact, we have not seen the implementation of any of those principles. We therefore call upon States to abide by the Millennium Declaration and implement it in order to engender better relations between the rich and the poor; to remove the spectre of the clash of civilizations and races; to enhance the high principles and values of religions; and to remove the distorted view of the tolerant Islamic religion that has been propagated by others. The developing countries are suffering from difficult economic conditions due to poverty, unemployment, declining living standards, over- population, mismanagement, debt servicing, and so forth, in addition to the burdens imposed by new economic policies. For these States to be fully integrated into the international economy, they need new opportunities and support so that they can build their economies and carry out administrative and economic structural reforms. They need further financial assistance and opportunities to compete, as well as technology transfers on concessional terms. They should also benefit from investments and cooperation, and free trade zones need to be established. We should try to implement the recommendations of the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries and cancel the accumulated debts of those countries. My Government is making strenuous efforts to achieve full development, to complete the building of an infrastructure, and to eliminate poverty. Thus, we have implemented a programme of administrative, financial and economic reform, and have updated the investment law to attract foreign capital, with a view to bolstering the service and economic sectors. We have begun a carefully prepared and well balanced privatization programme and are making efforts to join the World Trade Organization and integrate ourselves into world economy. At this session, we look forward to the adoption of important resolutions that will enhance our joint campaign to achieve security and stability, welfare and prosperity for our peoples. I am confident that our concerted efforts will lead to the success of this session and will help us achieve the results we desire. In conclusion, I would like to extend my congratulations to Switzerland on its admission as a Member of the Organization and to Timor-Leste on its coming admission. They will make a fresh contribution to the United Nations.﻿First of all, I would like to thank the outgoing President of the General Assembly, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for the superb manner in which he led the work of the fifty-sixth session of the Assembly. Permit me, Sir, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, and to express my best wishes for success in your work at the head of this important body. It is with enormous satisfaction that, on behalf of the President of the Republic of Guinea- Bissau, Mr. Kumba Yalá, we welcome Switzerland as a Member of the United Nations. We also look forward to welcoming the Republic of Timor-Leste, a member of our community of Portuguese-speaking countries. The loss of human lives can never be justified by a cause, no matter what its noble goals. Just a year ago, the people of Guinea-Bissau joined their voices to those of the international community in condemning all acts of terrorism and all actions which would threaten international security. We are convinced of the lofty ideals of democracy, in which human security becomes the pillar of society's development. Therefore, on my own account and on behalf of the people of Guinea-Bissau, I condemn the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, and we reiterate our conviction that the only way in which to combat such infamy is to unite all our efforts under the auspices of the United Nations. Our readiness to cooperate in the quest for solutions that will guarantee peace and stability in our subregion is great, although the internal conflicts in neighbouring countries inevitably entail costs in the defence and security areas. They also compel us to sacrifice the meagre budgets of priority sectors of the Government's programme, such as health and education. The progressive establishment of democracy, human rights, international cooperation and development will restore the dignity of our people. Convinced of this, we are developing partnerships with the United Nations system to combat poverty in Guinea-Bissau. We continue to make sacrifices to pave the way for development. These sacrifices include interruptions in the normal course of development in a State where the 1998 conflict bore witness to the evils of a people's poverty, and to the destruction of the 16 precarious structures of a new State in a region where there are pockets of conflict that tend to cross borders, and thus to increase the climate of instability. The Senegalese conflict, in the Casamance region, provides an example of our resolve to help find consensus solutions to put an end to many years of armed conflict in the neighbouring Republic of Senegal. Respect for the Charter of the Organization of African Unity as it relates to the retention of the borders inherited from colonialism calls for Guinea- Bissau's participation in efforts to establish peace and stability in a united and indivisible Senegal. Based on this conviction, our country supports the efforts of the People's Republic of China towards peaceful reunification, under the theme of “one nation, two systems.” The economic and financial difficulties faced by the Government of Guinea-Bissau have been the object of attention by the members of the Security Council. It is clear that peacekeeping efforts cannot be divorced from the need to preserve economic and social stability in Guinea-Bissau. Thus, progress on peacekeeping, on economic recovery and on development in Guinea- Bissau are interdependent. Guinea-Bissau, a member of the African Union, is involved in the struggle for peace, stability, democracy, the defence of human rights, cooperation, development, prosperity and human dignity. We are bound, furthermore, by our national poverty reduction strategy to contribute to the socio-economic programme to revitalize our continent, following the broader approach of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). It is clear to Guinea-Bissau that the United Nations, as a forum for dealing with questions related to world peace, respect for human rights, the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development worldwide, is encouraging and contributing in practical ways to the success of NEPAD and to ensuring that the commitments entered into in Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg will be effectively implemented. Guinea-Bissau remains committed to finding solutions to its difficult socio-economic situation, and appeals to the international community to contribute to the implementation of our national poverty reduction strategy. I would like to recognize the intelligent, patriotic manner in which Angola put an end to long years of conflict, as well as the progress made towards the resolution of the conflicts in Senegal, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and the Comoros. Dialogue is the best instrument for restoring peace and working towards stability and development for humanity. That is why we encourage the actors in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to join in the effort to find acceptable solutions to bring about concrete security and prosperity for both peoples. Strict compliance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002) will be the only response acceptable to the Assembly and the only proof that the parties recognize the incalculable value of our Organization. To realize the promises contained in the Millennium Declaration and in the United Nations Charter, which would guarantee a more prosperous and just world, we join in the appeal made to the leaders of Iraq to abide by Security Council resolutions with respect to Chapter VII of the Charter, in order to avoid a possible Council decision. Guinea-Bissau shares the need for broader and more effective participation in the work of the Security Council, which is a vital organ of the Organization. Permit me to recall that reducing poverty in the poorest countries, such as ours, will guarantee the prosperity, stability, peace and security of the entire world and is the best way to neutralize terrorism. We speak out in the struggle against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and for the creation of conditions which will allow access to basic resources such as water, to education and to the protein necessary for healthy growth. Solidarity among peoples is and will continue to be the guarantee that we will be able to bequeath to future generations the legacy of a prosperous world.  ﻿My delegation is particularly pleased to convey to Mr. Jan Kavan its heartfelt congratulations and fervent hopes for success in the lofty and important task ahead of him. His well-deserved election to the presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly is a fitting tribute to the spirit of the Czech people as well as to his outstanding intellectual and moral qualities. I am pleased to take this opportunity to say how much we appreciated the courtesy, the commitment and the competence of his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, who guided our discussions in such an outstanding manner. We express to him our sincere and deep gratitude for his many relevant initiatives, including working visits to West Africa, particularly to Senegal, which are testimony of friendship for my country and support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). I should like also like to express once again to Secretary-General Kofi Annan our admiration for his steadfast determination in serving the ideals and causes of our Organization. Thanks to his wisdom and far- sightedness, the United Nations has found new vigour with which to meet the tremendous challenges confronting humankind. It is therefore fitting that our Organization which more than ever needs the widest support for its plans and projects for a better management of the affairs of our globalized world is gaining two new Members: Switzerland and, soon, East Timor. To the delegations of those two friendly countries, I would like to express Senegal's warmest congratulations and our conviction that their contribution will undoubtedly be enriching for our Organization, whose universal character will thereby be reinforced. It is precisely in the name of the principle of the universality of the United Nations that Senegal reiterates its fervent wish to see the Republic of China on Taiwan join the concert of nations and assume its full responsibilities in our Organization and its specialized agencies. Granting that request, following the good precedent of the World Trade Organization, would bring justice to the 23 million inhabitants of the Republic of China on Taiwan, who through their exemplary conduct on the world stage have already given proof of Taipei's attachment to the noble objectives of the San Francisco Charter. Last week, the United Nations and the international community commemorated the anniversary of the tragic events of 11 September 2001. We express once again our sincere sentiments of sympathy and compassion to the thousands of American and other families in mourning. Senegal, its head of State and its Government strongly reiterate their steadfast determination to fight against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, whatever its motivations and whoever its perpetrators and sponsors. Senegal proclaims loudly and clearly that there is no reason or cause sufficiently just or sufficiently good that it could justify an act of terrorism against pregnant women and other innocent civilians. 23 The Dakar Declaration against Terrorism, adopted on 17 October 2001 at the initiative of President Abdoulaye Wade of Senegal, gives full expression to our fervent wish to strengthen regional and subregional cooperation in order to dismantle the menace of terrorist activities on our continent. Let us remember the heinous and unrepentant terrorist strikes against the African people in Kenya and Tanzania. Nor do we forget the heroic daily resistance of the Algerian people in the face of repeated assaults by killers blinded by their hatred and not by their faith in God, at least not in the God of love and compassion that we Muslims proudly call Allah. To that end, Senegal submitted some months ago to the African Union a draft additional protocol to the Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism of the Organization of African Unity and the African Union. The draft protocol aims to strengthen the Algiers Convention and to adapt it to the post-11- September context. Also, my delegation welcomes the fine initiative of the Commission of the African Union, which recently held in Algiers a high-level intergovernmental meeting on terrorism in Africa. In other words, we have the common responsibility to maintain and to strengthen the international mobilization against terrorist networks and their financing. My Government welcomes the excellent work already carried out by the Security Council Counter- Terrorism Committee pursuant to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Senegal encourages the Committee to pursue its efforts and requests the Working Group of the General Assembly's Sixth Committee to do everything to hasten the adoption of a comprehensive international convention against terrorism. It is a truism that the fight against terrorism is a part of the international community's struggle to promote international peace and security. That is the objective that over the past months has not escaped our Organization, which has strived to find lasting solutions to conflicts that destroy the social and economic fabric of numerous countries, especially in Africa. In that regard, Senegal keenly appreciates the determined commitment of the Security Council, which, more conscious than ever of its role of guarantor of international peace and security, has devoted a large portion of its work this year to conflicts and tensions afflicting the African continent. Among the numerous praiseworthy initiatives of the Security Council, I would like to mention the convening of special meetings devoted to the situation of Africa, brilliantly presided over by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Mauritius and Singapore during their respective presidencies. On behalf of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), of which Senegal currently holds the chairmanship, I would like to nurture the hope that the United Nations will stay the course in order to forever stave off violence and wars, which take a serious financial toll on the future of many African countries. I am thinking of Sierra Leone, where the current exemplary normalization of the political and economic situation has largely been facilitated by the holding of free, transparent, democratic and peaceful elections. It is urgent that the bells of peace, which have sounded in Freetown, also be heard in Monrovia, where the absence of political dialogue led the way to grave socio-economic instability, whose contagious effect could turn out to be disastrous for the Mano River Union area. Senegal, as Chairman of ECOWAS, is working tirelessly and hopes to be able to report to the Assembly on its many initiatives under way, which could very shortly lay the foundations of peace in Liberia. In Sierra Leone and Liberia, as in Guinea-Bissau, where the Government of President Kumba Yal· is attempting with courage and abnegation to lift the country out of a financial and economic crisis following a trying civil war, the international community has the duty to continue more steadfastly its valuable assistance. In that regard, I welcome the strong signal sent by the Security Council under the United States presidency to financial backers with respect to granting Guinea-Bissau substantial financial aid so that it can firmly return to the path of peace and prosperity. The interest in that neighbour of Senegal and in our subregion recalls the wise and timely decision to establish at Dakar an Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for West Africa. That Office should promote better coordination among the activities of the United Nations in our subregion and their greater impact on the ground. I am 24 pleased to sincerely congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan on that clear-sighted initiative. It goes without saying that the Office will enjoy the enthusiastic support and complete cooperation of the Government of Senegal. Allow me to recall the activities of President Abdoulaye Wade in benefit of the great African people of Madagascar. His personal and total involvement in mediating a solution to the Madagascar crisis has, as a great international statesman said, surely spared the people of that great island a drift towards a civil war of incalculable consequences. He and his African colleagues who have taken up that issue have shown the world that with the strong support of the international community Africans will prove that they are also and above all peacemakers. Elsewhere, beyond the African continent but so close to our hearts, we observe a growing danger in the Middle East. This year again, the world has witnessed unheard-of violence in the Palestinian territories, where the occupying military Power, Israel, has decidedly opted for State violence, which leads to concepts as dangerous as the so-called targeted assassinations and other preventive operations. On the Palestinian side, that situation has caused an increase in terrorist cells specialists in suicide belts groups that we unequivocally and resolutely condemn. That network has produced an erosion of trust between Israelis and Palestinians trust that must be restored as swiftly as possible through frank and constructive dialogue that leads to a just and lasting solution. In order to achieve that, it is imperative that Tel Aviv comply with the relevant Security Council resolutions in particular resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002) and that it also adhere to the peace plan proposed by Saudi Arabia and to the initiatives of the Quartet, which set out the basic principles of land for peace and withdrawal for normalization. The international community, in particular the Security Council and the Quartet, has the critical duty to formulate a bold plan to realize the vision of two States within the 1967 borders and to hasten what Senegal has continued to call for in all international forums: the immediate convening of an international conference on Palestine, leading to a specific mechanism that would address political, economic and security issues and having as its starting point the creation of a sovereign Palestinian State side by side an Israeli State, living in peace and harmony with its neighbours. Over the past 12 months, the international scene has been dominated by the holding of three major conferences that were crucial events in humanity's collective march towards a more just and more unified world: the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, held at Doha, Qatar; the International Conference on Financing for Development, held at Monterrey, Mexico; and the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg, South Africa. Those world conferences and the strong alliances that they created will allow humanity to enter the third millennium on a positive note. I should like to note here that, in the light of those statements of good intentions, the time for action has come. We must act swiftly so that globalization, a phenomenon that affects us all, will ultimately benefit us all. Up to now, despite its certain virtues, globalization seems to have caused greater marginalization of the vast majority of the peoples of the South. As a consequence, it is urgent that we identify innovative mechanisms of development financing. In fact, even if official development assistance is still valuable for the States of the South, its effectiveness will be limited without the addition of concrete measures such as access for products of the South to markets of the North, an increase in foreign direct investment flows to developing countries, particularly those in Africa, and the initiating role that, we must recognize, belongs to the international and African private sectors. Indeed, Senegal is convinced that no country in the world has ever developed through official development assistance. The private sector, infrastructure and education are universally acknowledged as the tripod of genuine sustainable development. It is no less urgent, following the much- appreciated appointment of a High Representative of the Secretary-General for the Least Developed Countries, that we all commit ourselves to implementing the Brussels Programme of Action, in conformity with the consensus of the 12th Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 49, held at Cotonou from 5 to 7 August 2002. The success of such initiatives cannot depend on Governments alone. We need to build firm partnerships with local communities, with civil society actors, with 25 the private sector, with non-governmental organizations and with international organizations. It is fitting that humanity's oldest continent should be proud of the adoption of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), a double partnership internal and international and a linkage, on the one hand, among Africans and, on the other, between Africa and the rest of the international community, which has already shown its full support for that new initiative. As evidence, I cite the Group of Eight Africa Action Plan and the holding of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly to consider how to support NEPAD. Through NEPAD, which has the merit of defining the prerequisites for African development, of identifying sectoral priorities and of developing a resource mobilization strategy, African leaders among them His Excellency Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of Senegal intend to demonstrate that the responsibility for Africa's development is essentially theirs. In that context, I must mention the launching of the African Union in July at Durban, South Africa. We hope that its Peace and Security Council, coupled with NEPAD's Peer Review Mechanism, will lead to strong commitments by our heads of State, first for our people and then for our partners, which are very concerned by the central questions of good governance and conflict prevention and resolution. Our development concerns do not preclude our demands for human rights. That is why my country attaches great importance to the promotion and protection of the rights of women and children. At the initiative of the Government, a major programme is under way to combat, in particular, violence against women and the trafficking and exploitation of women and children for commercial and sexual purposes. In those areas, the strategy formulated and implemented by Senegal is based on action plans adopted at the special session of the General Assembly on Beijing +5 and on the follow-up to the World Summit on Children. As is its custom, Senegal wishes to honour and praise the great role of women in the world, in particular their African sisters, as the foundation and the powerful engine of African renewal. History will take note that it is Senegal that, through its President, has demanded and ensured that each of the five subregions of Africa elect at least one woman in its quota of two Commissioners to the Commission of the African Union. Africa is thus teaching the rest of the world a lesson in unprecedented parity, which is more proof if it were needed that, if we seek competent women, we will find them. At the initiative of its President, Senegal will organize, on 10 October at Dakar, a special summit of heads of State or Government of ECOWAS to follow up the results of the twenty-sixth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to children. The rights of women and children are integral elements of human rights, and my country reaffirms its attachment to the principles of the universality, interdependence and indivisibility of human rights, of good economic and political governance and of the rule of law. It is that democratic imperative that has prompted the head of State of Senegal to strengthen our institutional arsenal by creating the position of Commissioner of Human Rights, to which a woman has been appointed. As members are aware, Senegal was the first country in the world to ratify the Rome Statute for the establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC), whose entry into force on 1 July 2002 my country welcomed. That commitment resulted in my Government's decision to present a candidate for judge on the ICC one of our finest magistrates and a specialist in criminal law. In conclusion, I should like, in recalling the urgency of confronting humanity's numerous challenges, to express the earnest hope that the Organization will bolster its ability to better serve the legitimate hopes of the world's peoples. Undoubtedly, that path will anchor the future of a world reconciled with itself, where justice, freedom, peace and prosperity will be jealously preserved in justice and freedom, in peace and prosperity, and in the dignity of human beings all human beings. ﻿Let me at the outset extend to His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan, former Foreign Minister of the Czech Republic, our sincere congratulations upon his election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I want to assure him that he can safely count on the full support of my delegation in discharging his important responsibilities. I would also like to welcome in our midst the latest new State Member of the United Nations, Switzerland. It was only four days ago, when so many of us here paid tribute at Ground Zero to the memories of the thousands of victims who lost their lives last year in the brutal 11 September terrorist attacks. The remembrance there was heartbreaking, but at the same time it was a day of resolve as well. There is no doubt in my mind: this was a time that again brought into focus our deep commitment to freedom and democracy. In that regard, I would like to reiterate that the people and the Government of Hungary continue to maintain relentlessly their strong solidarity with the United States. Our contemporary world has been decisively transformed since 11 September 2001. The fight against international terrorism is high on our agenda. Hungary is strongly committed to the effective efforts of the community of nations to counter this threat. Towards that goal, we have consistently acted in cooperation with our allies and the rest of the international community. In that respect, Hungary supports the ongoing global endeavours of the United Nations aimed against terrorism. We find it crucial that Member States make every necessary and possible move to prevent further terrorist acts and implement national measures under relevant Security Council resolutions to combat that phenomenon. Effective cooperation among States is also indispensable to act resolutely against the menace of terrorism. Besides being a reliable partner in the global coalition, Hungary has taken the necessary domestic legislative and executive measures to implement the decisions of the international community. The Parliament of Hungary this week took the decision to ratify the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. By this legislative act, Hungary has become a party to all of the international instruments adopted by the United Nations against terrorism. We continue to attach particular importance to the unimpeded work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council, with which we maintain a particularly close relationship. In the context of the global coalition against terrorism, Hungary is following developments in Afghanistan with keen interest. We welcome the consolidation achieved so far by the Government of Afghanistan with the assistance of the international community. We wish to place on record our deep 15 appreciation for the excellent work done by the international forces. in that country. Further efforts to contain and eliminate terrorist groups in Afghanistan will remain a top priority. Hungary is committed to maintaining its support to the Government of Afghanistan as well as to its people. Iraqi non-compliance with Security Council resolutions is a serious concern for all of us. Hungary regrets that the Iraqi regime refuses to cooperate with the United Nations and continues to pose a threat to peace and security in the region and the world at large. The international community cannot disregard this fact and has to respond to it in a resolute manner. We will work closely with our allies and partners to pursue the full implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions, and we will do our share in the efforts to build a broad coalition of nations in order to prevent the Iraqi regime from producing and using weapons of mass destruction. Having entered the twenty-first century, mankind continues to face further major global challenges, such as illicit drug trafficking, money-laundering, corruption and transnational organized crime. The role of the United Nations in facing and tackling these phenomena is of paramount importance. By the same token, global risks are widened by new types of security threats. In our view, serious problems of regional stability, of low- intensity armed conflicts and threats of natural and man-made catastrophes are increasingly on the rise. Illegal transfers of nuclear, biological and chemical materials pose grave threats. Illegal migration and illicit trafficking in human beings are also rightly viewed as new forms of security risks. Hungary is more than prepared to play its role, with all the means at our disposal, to meet these new challenges through concerted international efforts, including regional arrangements. The year 2002 marked the beginning of a new review cycle of the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We expect the annual sessions of the Preparatory Committee leading up to the 2005 Review Conference to make a significant contribution to the further strengthening of all aspects of this legal instrument by ensuring its full implementation and promoting its universality. The early start of negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty stands out as the next logical step aimed at curbing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We cannot but regret that disagreements over the comprehensive programme of work are preventing the Conference on Disarmament from starting substantive work on this issue. One of the most important new threats to international peace and stability in the changed security environment at the beginning of the twenty-first century is caused by the proliferation of ballistic missiles capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction. Hungary is ready to join international efforts to counter this danger, including new political and diplomatic initiatives. The system of multilateral legal norms relating to non-proliferation, disarmament and arms control fails to include regulations on responsible international behaviour concerning ballistic missiles. Out of the several propositions emerged recently, Hungary lends its utmost support to the negotiations on an international code of conduct against the proliferation of ballistic missiles. We appreciate the vigorous efforts of the States members of the European Union to move this process forward and hope for its successful completion in the near future. Developments over the past 12 months have raised more critically than ever the question of how to address in an efficient way the challenges posed by the deliberate spread of disease, such as the anthrax incidents. The reinforcement of national public health and civilian defence capabilities is crucial, even though there are only a few countries that, acting alone, can put meaningful assets in place. International cooperation in this respect must not be a distant opportunity; it is in the interest of each and every country, and of all nations as a whole. Complementary preventive efforts would be needed as well to at least diminish the likelihood of such an occurrence. Among such preventive efforts, the benchmarking of arms control compliance will eventually have to find its legitimate place. That is why we deem important the successful conclusion of the Fifth Review Conference of States Parties to the Biological Weapons Convention, to be resumed in November this year under Hungarian chairmanship. Hungary remains strongly committed to the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and its verification regime. In this regard, we concur with the view that nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation will also be essential to combat international terrorism. 16 Hungary has, from the very beginning, given its strong support to the establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC). The ICC has become the first major multilateral legal institution of the twenty-first century. We were proud to become a State party to the Statute of the ICC and to be among those whose ratification helped bring about the entry into force of the Statute this year. We firmly concur with the view that international law will be strengthened through this new legal institution. As a sign of our deep commitment to the Rome Statute, my Government has decided to nominate a candidate to the panel of judges of the ICC. I am confident that the election of a Hungarian judge would contribute to the genuine realization of the objectives set out in the Rome Statute. Human rights are universal values. States Members of the United Nations are expected to observe the norms and standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including minority rights, adopted by the United Nations. By the same token, it will remain the moral and political responsibility of States to call upon others to act in accordance with their voluntarily undertaken obligations. Hungary will not hesitate to raise its voice when human rights are violated in any part of the world. International protection of minority rights remains a major preoccupation for us. We continue to pursue our efforts aimed at a functioning universal legal system for the protection of minorities. Globalization and interdependence are two major phenomena shaping the contemporary world, including the political landscape of the United Nations. By taking advantage of the opportunities stemming from these phenomena, all of us could seek a much better life for the inhabitants of our globe. The United Nations has the necessary instruments at hand. A better and more responsible use of these instruments can contribute to the implementation of the Millennium Declaration Development Goals, aimed at creating a more prosperous and sustainable world for generations to come. If we have the necessary political will and determination, we can have a United Nations that works relentlessly to improve the lives of all. That is, in the final analysis, what the United Nations was founded for.  ﻿I congratulate the Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I look forward to working closely with him as the Czech Republic, a good friend of my country, moves ever closer to membership in the European Union. Our thanks are due to Mr. Han Seung-soo for his work as President of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. I am delighted to welcome Switzerland as a new Member of the Organization and look forward to the imminent membership of East Timor, a nation whose birth was fostered by this Organization. Prime Minister Rasmussen of Denmark has already addressed the General Assembly on behalf of the European Union. Ireland associates itself fully with his remarks. We are all still haunted, a year later, by the shadow of the terrible deaths and events of 11 September 2001. Last year in the delayed general debate, I spoke about the implications of those atrocities. I set out my thoughts on how we as the international community should respond. My conclusions last year and my message today are the same. The United Nations is at the centre of our system of collective security. It is a mirror of our determination and our political will. This is the world body invested by the peoples of the world with unique legitimacy and unique authority. Around the world people look in hope and idealism to the United Nations. We must be worthy of that trust. I want to fully endorse the Secretary-General's address to the Assembly yesterday. As the Secretary- General said, All States have a clear interest, as well as a clear responsibility, to uphold international law and maintain international order' (see A/57/PV.2). States must honour their international obligations. Unless we consistently call to account those who defy or flagrantly violate their obligations, our system will be discredited. The choice we face is stark. Either we stand by and strengthen the international system and the rule of law, or we invite anarchy. The great Irish poet W. B. Yeats put it graphically in The Second Coming': Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world'. That was what the perpetrators of 11 September wanted. Their vicious attack was not just on the innocent people of many nationalities, including my own in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania; not just on the United States; but on the very values we cherish and that are the foundation on which this Organization is built. They will have succeeded if we are provoked into abandoning those values and laws. Ultimately they can be defeated, and the scourge of international terror ended, only if we stand united in defence of our international obligations and the rule of law. Within our system, the Security Council is charged with responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. When there are threats to international peace and security, the Member States concerned are obliged to bring these matters to the attention of the Security Council. When the Security Council acts in such cases, all Member States are obliged to implement its resolutions. Regrettably, they sometimes fail to do so. Any law that is flagrantly violated becomes weakened over time. That is why flagrant violation and defiance of Security Council resolutions should be a matter of the utmost concern to all Member States. The terrorist attacks of 11 September required an urgent response from the international community. It was vital that the Security Council was at the centre of the international community's response. The Council, to quote the Secretary-General, responded with patience, creativity and determination'. The Security Council adopted resolution 1368 (2001), demanding the fullest possible cooperation of the international community in bringing the perpetrators to justice. It subsequently authorized the deployment of an international security force to Afghanistan. It put in place measures to counter international terrorism. 30 The establishment by the Security Council of the Counter-Terrorism Committee to oversee the implementation of resolution 1373 (2001) was a landmark development. Its work has been instrumental in making it more difficult for international terrorist networks to organize and finance their activities. Continued persistence and vigilance are required. We still have much more to do. We must make it impossible for the agents of international terror to operate. We must persevere with initiatives such as the freezing of assets and the denial of safe haven. At the same time, we must ensure that everything we do respects the United Nations Charter and the body of international human rights law we have so painstakingly constructed. That is our best guarantee against evil and its perpetrators. In his address to the General Assembly yesterday, the Secretary-General also correctly identified four serious current threats to world peace. First, on the Middle East, there can be no doubt that there is a need for greater urgency in the efforts to bring an end to the conflict. The vision of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002) must be implemented. For far too long the Palestinian people have been denied their legitimate rights. Today they exist in a state of deep impoverishment. Ireland strongly believes that in order to reach a settlement that will give the Israeli people the security they deserve and that will give the Palestinian people their legitimate rights and sovereignty, the parties must move forward. They must in particular address not just the security issues but also the economic and humanitarian needs of Palestinians, and they must establish a concrete target for a political settlement. For its part, the European Union, working closely with the United Nations, the United States and Russia through the quartet', will continue to encourage and assist the parties to end the conflict and move towards a permanent peace. This conflict has been an ongoing source of suffering for the peoples of the region and also a focal point of instability for the rest of the world. It remains a threat of the utmost gravity to international peace and security. We can and must give it the highest priority. Secondly, the Secretary-General mentioned Iraq. Iraq has been in violation of Security Council resolutions, in particular on arms inspection, for some considerable time. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has been engaged in serious efforts to encourage Iraq to comply with its obligations under those Security Council resolutions. We will continue to strongly support his good offices. Let us express wholehearted agreement with the call by the Secretary-General for Iraq to comply with its obligations for the sake of its own people and for the sake of world order. If Iraq's defiance continues, the Security Council must face its responsibilities. We call on Iraq to respect its obligations and to implement in full and without preconditions all the Security Council resolutions addressed to it. The weapons inspectors must be allowed in to do the work authorized by the Council. Iraq's leadership has it within its own power to end the current predicament and to alleviate the great hardship on its people. It should do so without delay. Thirdly, it is essential for the international community to maintain its strong and active support for the people and the Government of Afghanistan. Afghanistan has come through great trials over the past year. We should not overlook the fact that, despite the best efforts of the international coalition to ensure that the use of force was targeted and proportionate, many innocent Afghans have died. We should remember them, too, in our thoughts and prayers. Ultimately, they are just as much victims of the terrorist groups who carried out the attacks of 11 September as those who were murdered in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. Considerable progress has been achieved in Afghanistan with the help of the international community. There are clear signs that, overall, the quality of life is improving. Nonetheless, there is still a long way to go if Afghanistan is completely to escape the violence and instability of the past. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan remains acute. The sustained and wholehearted support of the international community remains essential, therefore, if progress is to be maintained. For its part, Ireland has been active in the Security Council, particularly in highlighting the humanitarian situation. We have pledged $12 million over the next three years, the majority of which has 31 already been dispensed. We are also contributing personnel to the international stabilization force. Fourthly, as regards India and Pakistan, we welcome the decrease in tension between these two countries. The risk of open conflict between two nuclear-capable countries is a matter of the utmost concern to all of us. We encourage the leaders of India and Pakistan to address the underlying causes that give rise to the potential for conflict. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction chemical, biological and nuclear is, of course, an issue that goes far beyond Iraq. They represent a major threat to international peace and security. The international instruments and regimes to control the spread, and bring about the elimination, of such weapons must be strengthened and fully implemented. Ultimately, the long-term control and elimination of weapons of mass destruction can be achieved only through a comprehensive and rigorous system of international treaties and obligations that are verifiable and universal. Ireland, together with our New Agenda partners, will continue its efforts in this regard during this year's session of the General Assembly. We call on all States that are concerned about these issues to become more constructively engaged in the period ahead. All of us recognize that conflict prevention, not just conflict resolution, is the central challenge facing the United Nations. Poverty, inequality and injustice are all too often the breeding ground for instability and for threats to peace. They are an affront to the international conscience. We must tackle the injustices that all too often allow conflict situations to develop. Our challenge is to show that there is a peaceful and legitimate way of dealing with these problems. It is only through the development of integrated strategies that address the underlying causes of conflict poverty, injustice and the abuse of fundamental rights and freedoms that the international community can bring about long-term peace and stability. The Millennium Summit Declaration confirmed the commitment of the world's leadership to tackling the root causes of conflict. The Secretary-General has since called for the United Nations to move from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention. Ireland fully supports the implementation of the Secretary- General's report on conflict prevention (A/55/985). The United Nations must be equipped with the necessary tools to develop coherent conflict-prevention policies. Let us commit ourselves to supporting the Secretary-General in his ongoing reform initiatives. We must revitalize the General Assembly so that it can play its proper role. Let us re-engage on reform of the Security Council so that it reflects modern geopolitical realities. We need a Security Council which is as representative as possible of the international community, while being in a position to function efficiently, and we must provide the United Nations with sufficient resources to meet its responsibilities. Sustainable development focused on poverty eradication is the most powerful instrument which the international community has to address the long-term root causes of conflict and to promote peace. Let us also remind ourselves of the international community's long-standing commitment to meeting the United Nations target of spending 0.7 per cent of gross national product on overseas development assistance. At the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, my Prime Minister, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern, confirmed Ireland's commitment to meet that target by 2007. Let us restate our commitment to providing universal access to basic health care. We must be relentless in the campaign to eliminate diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. The spread of those diseases threatens to undermine our development programmes. We must step up our efforts to eradicate them. We must aim for the targets set out in the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, adopted by the General Assembly in June 2001. We must ensure that the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria is adequately resourced. The Johannesburg Summit agreed upon a global comprehensive action plan for sustainable development which will help guide our policies and programmes in the coming years. The Summit Declaration's commitment on sustainable development has the potential to make an important contribution to conflict prevention, particularly in Africa. Effective conflict prevention is also about putting necessary structures in place. The Brahimi report on United Nations peace operations (A/55/305) acknowledged the pressing need to establish both long- term and short-term conflict prevention strategies. I would like to reiterate Ireland's support for the 32 Secretary-General's initiatives and for the role that United Nations peacekeeping has to play in an integrated conflict prevention strategy. Peacekeeping is at the heart of Ireland's contribution to the United Nations. We are immensely proud of the contribution which Irish personnel have made to United Nations peacekeeping. We reserve a special place in our hearts for those who have given their lives in the service of the United Nations. This was demonstrated once again in a moving ceremony which was held to mark the standing down of the Irish battalion from the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon after 24 years of service. As a member of the European Union, Ireland welcomes the deepening cooperation between the European Union and the United Nations on conflict prevention and peacekeeping. This will be given further concrete expression when the European Union takes over the United Nations police operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina next January. Respect for human rights is a core dimension in conflict prevention. This is the very foundation on which peace and security surely depend. Human rights must be integrated into all United Nations activities. The entry into force of the Rome Statute establishing the International Criminal Court sends a clear signal of determination to bring to justice those who perpetrate genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. I would urge those who have not ratified the Rome Statute to do so. The international community is at its strongest when it stands unified, bound together by the strength of the rule of law. I would like to take the opportunity presented by this address to the General Assembly to pay tribute to Mary Robinson, former President of Ireland, who has just completed her term as United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. We are deeply proud of her achievements. We know that she will continue to be a fearless champion of the universality of human rights. Turning to the situation in Northern Ireland, we have seen substantial progress across the key areas of implementation of the Good Friday Agreement since I last addressed this Assembly. The political institutions of the Agreement are operating on a positive and inclusive basis, bringing tangible benefits across the board. An independent international commission has overseen two acts of arms decommissioning by the Irish Republican Army. The Patten Commission report's vision of a new beginning for policing in Northern Ireland is being progressively realized. I call on all to fully play their part in laying a foundation for and strengthening the new policing arrangements. Welcome progress has been made in normalizing security arrangements on the ground. However, more needs to be done, and we need to see further early progress, especially in the South Armagh area. The considerable record of achievement, however, has not made us complacent about the difficulties and challenges that remain. The level of street violence in the interface areas of Belfast and the sectarian attacks on vulnerable households, for instance, have given us all cause for serious concern. These have had a corrosive effect on community confidence. They need to be addressed urgently in all their dimensions, including through effective policing measures leading to convictions. The Irish and British Governments remain absolutely committed to the Good Friday Agreement and to its implementation in full. Its core principles constitutional stability based on consent, partnership politics, inclusive political institutions and structured North-South cooperation on the island of Ireland represent the only viable basis for a workable political accommodation. In short, the Agreement, which has been much praised and admired by States Members of the Assembly, continues to be the only template for political progress in Northern Ireland. Before concluding, I would like to refer briefly to Ireland's membership of the Security Council, which comes to an end on 31 December 2002. Ireland's experience as a member of the Council has strongly reinforced our belief in the system of collective global security. The central role of the Security Council in the aftermath of 11 September 2001 underlined the importance of its role as guardian of international peace and security. It must now build on that achievement. Ireland has, I believe, made a substantive contribution to the work of the Council. We will seek to continue to do so in the remaining months of our term. Our mission in the United Nations is to continually strive for a world that is fair and just. This can best be done through our system of collective security, through international economic and social development and through respect for human rights and international law. If we can commit ourselves to respect the decisions of the Security Council and all 33 our other international obligations, then innocent lives can be saved and seemingly interminable conflicts resolved. We have the methods and the means to peaceably resolve the dangers that threaten us. It should not be beyond our talent and resources to achieve this. But to do so, we need to assert the core values of multilateralism in particular, and its capacity to achieve, for all our people, a better and safer world.  ﻿Let me start by congratulating the President on his unanimous election to preside over the fifty-seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly. His election is an honour to him and to his country, the Czech Republic. The delegation of the State of Eritrea assures you of its full cooperation and support. Allow me also to extend to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic of Korea, my delegation's deep appreciation for a job well done during the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. Profound appreciation is also due to our Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts to make our United Nations more responsive and effective. On this happy occasion, my delegation welcomes the Swiss Confederation to the family of nations with great pleasure. We commend the decision taken by the Swiss people in allowing their great country to become a full Member of the United Nations. The same words go to the soon-to-be 191st Member of our Organization, the Democratic Republic of East Timor, a country whose sovereignty and independence has been won with sweat and blood, like that of my own country. Warm welcome from Eritrea, East Timor! The fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time when the wounds and scars from the 11 September terrorist attack one year ago, in three locations over the soil of the United States, are still healing. Grief, pain and anger are still lingering. At a gathering here at Headquarters this 11 September to commemorate the first anniversary of the attack, Secretary-General Kofi Annan said, “On 11 September grief enveloped the world, not only out of solidarity with the people of the United States, but out of shared loss. More than 90 nations lost sons and daughters of their own — murdered that day for no other reason than that they had chosen to live in this country. Today, we come together as a world community because we were attacked as a world community.” The loss of almost 3,000 innocent lives in a single day is so painful. The Eritrean people share the pain and the grief. They reiterate their condolences to those who lost their loved ones, and they stand in solidarity with the American people at this trying time. Indeed, the attacks of 11 September have inevitably changed the way we live and the way we see our world. This day has symbolized the alarm clock that rung around the world to wake us all. My delegation regrets that it took attacks of such magnitude to shake us from our unwatchful sleep. 22 Terrorism is not a new phenomenon in my country. The State of Eritrea has suffered it since its formal independence, in 1993, as the youngest country in Africa. The Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement and the so-called Eritrean Popular Islamic Conference were created and sponsored by Al Qaeda and other regional and international Islamic groups to perpetrate subversive acts in Eritrea for the last 10 years. In 1994, Eritrean security forces intercepted a mixed group of terrorists that included in their ranks Al Qaeda-trained nationals from several countries. In 1995, this group murdered four Belgian tourists inside Eritrea in cold blood. Sporadic cross-border acts of terror and subversion continue to this day. In a statement contained in document S/1997/517 of 7 July 1997, my Government first warned the international community, and subsequently the then Organization of African Unity (OAU) and the Security Council, that international terrorist threats from extreme fundamentalist Islamic groups were on the way. The Eritrean Jihad terrorist movements, which are members of the Al Qaeda network, are now part of the so-called Alliance of Eritrean National Forces. This umbrella organization has bases and physical presences in some neighbouring, and a number of Western, countries. These groups continue to obtain sanctuary, as well as financial and other forms of assistance, from Western capitals. As the fight against international terrorism assumes high priority and warrants concerted action, the Government of Eritrea requests full cooperation and joint action from the countries where these terrorist elements live, plan and launch their operations. At this juncture, I also wish to reiterate to the Assembly that the people and Government of Eritrea will continue to fight terrorism in all its forms. Despite the declaration by the 1999 Algiers Summit of the OAU to make the year 2000 the year to end conflicts and to start a new momentum for peace in Africa, conflicts have continued to take a heavy toll on African peoples in many countries of the continent. This is indeed disappointing. I come from the Horn of Africa, a subregion where conflicts and wars have been a way of life for many decades. The Horn of Africa is also a place that has seen many misfortunes. Recurring conflicts over past decades have claimed hundreds of thousands of lives, displaced a staggering number of people and forced millions out of their countries to live as refugees in foreign lands. The internal conflict in the Sudan is now the longest running one in Africa. Under the framework of the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD), a subregional entity, the State of Eritrea, together with the other member countries, is doing its best to bring about a resolution to this conflict. We have come a long way in bringing the conflicting parties to face-to-face talks. There are encouraging signs, but we cannot congratulate ourselves yet. Our efforts may be considered a success once quieter days of peace, stability and sustained prosperity prevail in that sisterly country. I must admit that we need the help of the international community to end the suffering of our brothers and sisters in the Sudan. In the same vein, the problem in Somalia, another sisterly country in the Horn, continues to be a serious one that the international community cannot ignore. The vicious conflict in Somalia will have long-term catastrophic humanitarian consequences if the international community abandons this unfortunate country. The United Nations and the world community at large must help the Transitional National Government of Somalia to stabilize peace and security in the country. The international community should rush to save Somalia. Now, on a positive note, let me tell the Assembly the good news regarding the border conflict between my country and Ethiopia. On 13 April this year, the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission, a panel of five judges established by the Algiers agreement, made a judicial ruling on the entire 1,000-kilometer border between the two countries. The people and Government of Eritrea are pleased to see a legal solution to a conflict they never chose. My Government believed from the very beginning that this conflict could not be settled by might, but by peaceful means alone. The pacifist A. J. Muste said it all: “There is no way to peace. Peace is the way”. The Boundary Commission has drawn the new border and is currently in the process of physically demarcating the lines on the ground. Completion of the demarcation is expected in the next few months. According to the Algiers agreement, which both countries signed, the decision of the Commission is 23 final and binding. Eritrea has reiterated its acceptance of the Commission's decision of 13 April 2002. Eritrea therefore believes that territorial claims and counter- claims ended on that day. In legal terms, the conflict ended then too. Now that the conflict has legally been put to rest, the people of Eritrea want to leave this awful experience behind them and move on with life afresh. As Carl Bard said, “Though no one can go back and make a brand new start, anyone can start from now and make a brand new ending.” What matters is the destination point. The people and Government of Eritrea are committed to turning things around. At the end of this saga, my delegation finds it fitting to pay tribute at the General Assembly to our peace-loving friends and partners who helped us to get here. Allow me therefore to particularly thank the former Organization of African Unity, now the African Union; President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria; the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan; the Government of the United States of America; and the European Union. We are grateful to them all for their valued efforts in this difficult and long peace process. The year 2002 saw five important international gatherings aimed at bringing peace, security, human dignity and economic prosperity to the peoples of the world, big and small alike. Those meetings included the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, the Second World Assembly on Ageing in Madrid, the special session on children in New York, the World Food Summit in Rome and, lastly, the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. The promises and declarations of all these international events are tied in with the goals of the 2000 United Nations Millennium Declaration. As we all know, those goals embrace the key dimensions of human development — related to poverty, hunger, education and health — stated as a set of time-bound targets. Those targets are: halving poverty and hunger, achieving universal primary education and gender equality, reducing under-5 mortality by two thirds and maternal mortality by three quarters, halting the spread of HIV/AIDS and halving the proportion of people who lack access to safe water. With 1990 as the base year, those targets are to be achieved by 2015. Despite the promises of globalization and the many initiatives launched at various times to help the continent, Africa's economic growth is still lagging far behind. The success of development in Africa still depends on the political will of rich countries to provide financial assistance, on the one hand, and on the full ownership and effective execution of national development programmes by African countries themselves, on the other. Having said that, I shall now, for the benefit of our partners, reiterate the five core principles underlying Eritrea's development strategy: first, developing the capabilities of our people as the principal asset and driving force of our development endeavours; secondly, establishing strong public- private sector partnerships; thirdly, striving to achieve self-reliance and avoiding chronic and debilitating dependency; fourthly, protecting the environment from the adverse effects of development programmes; and fifthly, establishing effective development partnerships with multilateral and bilateral development agencies, with Governments and with non-governmental organizations. I would be remiss if I failed to bring to the attention of the Assembly the looming drought that threatens the lives of more than 1 million men, women and children in Eritrea. The failure of vital rains expected in the months of April and May has put their lives at risk. Famine is imminent if international aid does not reach the Eritrean people soon. I wish to use this occasion, therefore, to appeal to the donor community to respond to this pressing humanitarian need. In conclusion, I wish to express my delegation's confidence that, under your able leadership, Mr. President, the fifty-seventh session will see much success.  ﻿Let me first of all convey greetings and wishes of peace and prosperity to the people of your countries from the President of Turkmenistan, Saparmurat Niyazov. Allow me to congratulate the President on the occasion of his election to such a high and responsible post and wish him success in the organization of the fruitful work of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I would also like to welcome the Swiss Confederation and Timor-Leste on their membership this year in the United Nations. From the first days of its independent development, neutral Turkmenistan has cooperated closely with the United Nations and considers that cooperation the main direction for its foreign policy. The key issue for Turkmenistan as a neutral country in such conditions is cooperation in the name of peace and security and the well-being and prosperity of its people. We constantly feel that we have the support of the United Nations for our foreign policy initiatives aimed at strengthening these goals. Our commitment to these international obligations as a permanently neutral State remains unchanged. The importance of promoting the role of the United Nations is constantly becoming more obvious against the background of current developments of both global and regional processes where the concentration of collective efforts and the adoption of decisions that take into account various interests are required. Turkmenistan stands for strengthening and broadening the role of the United Nations in the solution not only of global problems, but also in the collective discussion of regional issues and for a more extensive use of the potential of the United Nations and its institutions in proposing and implementing foreign policy initiatives. We see huge opportunities in the close cooperation of the United Nations and its specialized bodies in the implementation of the large-scale national projects. In this context we express our gratitude for the cooperation of the leadership of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the United Nations International Drug Control Programme (UNDCCP) and others. In cooperation with these agencies, the Government of Turkmenistan is carrying out a number of large projects of social and economic orientation that are producing specific results in the areas of health care, social affairs, education, environment and other areas. More than a year has passed since the tragic events of 11 September 2001, which forced us to evaluate the issues of security of our people and our States through a qualitatively new scale of measurement and has confirmed the necessity to consolidate efforts in this direction. In this context the region of Central Asia has come to the forefront of the world's attention. In many 30 respects the prospects for peace and security will depend on the way multilateral dialogue develops on these issues in the region. Turkmenistan attaches foremost importance to the role of the United Nations in invigorating regional and interregional dialogue in the search for solutions to emerging problems. In this connection I would like to draw your attention to the initiative of the President of Turkmenistan in creating a regional consultative council of the heads of Government of the countries of Central Asia. This would be a high-level interstate body for regular consultations and the development of joint decisions on matters that touch directly upon the destinies of the States in the region and the real needs of their people. Primarily, these issues would include trade and economic interaction, energy supply, cross-border trade, water use, transportation and humanitarian cooperation. We believe that multilateral consultations on the part of heads of State will contribute to the development and implementation of agreed actions by the parties, on the basis of mutual interests, and will enable the creation of a maximally effective system of rational interaction. In this regard, the initiative of the President of Turkmenistan, Mr. Niyazov, to hold an international conference in Turkmenistan on economic cooperation in Central and South Asia, with the participation of representatives from the region, the United States, Russia, China, Japan, countries of the European Union, other interested States, and international financial and economic institutions, can be considered to be very timely. Such a forum will promote a new system of economic ties between West and East based on joint and equal cooperation of States. Its main goal should be creation of the most favourable conditions for trade, investment activities, and the introduction of modern technology. Moreover, holding such an international conference will make it possible for developed countries to assess the real potential for industrial and social development of States in Central and South Asia. The beginning of work on the trans-Afghan gas pipeline projects using the “Turkmenistan-Afghanistan- Pakistan” route is of great importance in developing regional cooperation. The agreement for the construction of the new gas pipeline was signed in May of this year, in Islamabad, by the Presidents of Turkmenistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Turkmenistan welcomes the interest shown in this project by large companies, financial and industrial groups, and first of all by the Asian Development Bank, which is taking an active part in the negotiating process for the implementation of the trans-Afghan gas pipeline project. The trans-Afghan gas pipeline is a project on an international scale that has colossal social, economic and political significance, primarily from the point of view of strengthening stability and security in the region. The trans-Afghan gas pipeline, of which more than 700 kilometres would be laid through Afghanistan, has, in addition to its economic component, an invaluable social and humanitarian significance. The construction of the gas pipeline would create jobs for more than 12 thousand Afghans and would also offer a new social infrastructure for Afghanistan. In this connection we call on the United Nations to assist us in the effective implementation of this project. Turkmenistan had suggested earlier, from the same rostrum, the development and adoption, under the United Nations auspices, of an international convention on operating regimes and guarantees for interstate pipelines. Such an instrument would, in our view, allow us to create a reliable political and legal mechanism for providing the safe transportation of critical raw materials to world markets. Turkmenistan's foreign policy of positive neutrality is aimed at ensuring secure development and cooperation aimed at social revival in the countries of the region. This entails the creation of new workplaces and fighting against poverty, in other words, everything that today embraces the human dimension. Turkmenistan supports the conclusions reached at the recent Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development. We feel that solutions to current world problems, especially in the humanitarian, social and environmental areas, will require a new approach to the human dimension in world politics. In the 21st century, the notion of sustainable development has acquired a qualitatively new meaning based on steady and stable economic growth. On of the important aspects of sustainable development is maintaining a balance between, on one hand, industrial 31 and technological progress and, on the other, protection of the environment. The realization of this necessity is especially relevant today, when this balance is breached throughout the world. The international community is striving to prevent negative, technology-generated consequences on the environment. A vivid example of that is the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Turkmenistan, having acceded to that important international instrument, is taking an active role in implementing its norms and principles, and is cooperating with international organizations. In the 21st century, the problem connected with the huge deposits of hydrocarbon resources in the basin of the Caspian Sea, which involves not only the countries of the region but also many other countries and multinationals, has come to the attention of the world. It is now known that the deposits of oil and gas in the Caspian Sea are the most important energy resources of the 21st century. Their efficient development, along with the creation of the necessary pipeline infrastructure for bringing energy resources to the world markets, will ensure significant economic growth for many States and ensure the well-being of their people. It is obvious that many countries are interested in the security of the energy resources transit. The United Nations should play an important role in this process. The first summit meeting of the Caspian littoral States in Ashgabat in April of this year, on the initiative of the President of Turkmenistan, could be considered as a qualitatively new stage in this process of agreeing on and developing a mutually acceptable solution to the Caspian problem. At this historic summit, Presidents expressed the will of their State and people, which is to ensure that the Caspian Sea be and remain a sea of friendship and peace. The result of the summit is that the Caspian theme was openly discussed for the first time at such a high level. Strong agreement was reached that problems are to be resolved peacefully and constructively. Thus, the first step towards a common goal — the determination of the status of the Caspian Sea — was made. It is obvious today that effective cooperation and activities relating to the Caspian Sea as a whole are directly connected with ensuring stability in the Caspian region. Turkmenistan hopes that the Caspian region will achieve peace, stability and durable cooperation on the basis of justice and mutual respect. We need collective efforts in order to solve the problems of the international community. The solution of these problems is possible, not through collective efforts alone, but also through the assumption by each member of the international community of its individual role and responsibilities. This is the logic guiding the political behaviour of Turkmenistan in its pursuit of the goals of strengthening peace and economic, social and cultural development. Our country is always ready for constructive partnership. The United Nations can rest assured in that respect.  ﻿The international agenda was forever changed by the events of 11 September 2001. The challenge created for the United Nations was, and is, the same as that for each of its Members: how best to react to those changes. The international fight against terrorism has thus become a top priority for all of us. It is not only a fight against individuals who conspire to kill innocent people; it is also, in itself, a fight for respect for human life and human dignity, for the values of liberty, tolerance and democracy and for the peaceful solution of conflicts. The United Nations immediately pledged its Members to the struggle through a swift reaction by the General Assembly and by the Security Council, which stated that the terrorist attacks of 11 September were a threat to international peace and security and which adopted a resolution, sending out a remarkable signal of strength, quickly followed by other international organizations, such as the European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). As members are aware, Portugal currently holds the chairmanship of the OSCE. We have made the fight against terrorism a priority on the OSCE's agenda. As Chairman-in-Office, I have been working towards a European charter on preventing and fighting terrorism, to be adopted at the ministerial meeting to be held in Portugal next December. But the United Nations is in a unique position to coordinate and invigorate the international response to terrorism. We are called upon to demonstrate that a world in which humanity can live free from fear is not only a common aspiration but also an achievable goal. We trust that the Security Council and the General Assembly will live up to their responsibilities in that regard. Failure to do so would seriously compromise the credibility of the Organization. (spoke in Portuguese; English text furnished by the delegation) At the same time that the world faces the new challenge of terrorism, old challenges persist. The Middle East demands a new peace dynamic. The evolution of the Iraqi issue must entail absolute respect for Security Council resolutions and the unconditional return of United Nations inspectors. Indeed, we consider the problem concerning Iraq often to be wrongfully presented: Iraq is a threat to international security, and thus pressure must be exerted on Iraq, not on the United Nations or on one particular country. It is Iraq that is failing to comply with United Nations resolutions. Our goal is to put an end to the threat represented by weapons of mass destruction. The United Nations and its Members cannot and must not continue to tolerate the continuous violation of Security Council resolutions. Thus, the international community must know how to act effectively and must be particularly demanding on this issue. The Security Council should promptly make a statement on Iraq's lack of compliance with Council resolutions and on its obligations. It is now up to Iraq to seize this opportunity and to cooperate with the United Nations. But, should Iraq persist in not complying fully with the Organization within a time frame to be determined, the international community should not exclude any alternative or option. On the other hand, two success stories from the past year deserve a special reference. First, in Angola, peace was achieved and seems irreversible. Portugal will continue to work with the Angola's Government and political forces towards the full implementation of the Lusaka Protocol. The United Nations must contribute to that process. Humanitarian assistance is vital for the consolidation of the peace process. Those steps, along with free elections and a modern economic framework, will surely strengthen peace and democracy in that country. Secondly, East Timor's proclamation of independence on 20 May represents a success for the people of East Timor, for the United Nations and for those who fought for it. The General Assembly will soon proclaim East Timor a new Member. An independent East Timor within the United Nations deeply touches the Portuguese people, who have always believed in the rights of East Timor's people and in the justice of their cause. East Timor started from scratch. It is now up to the international community to maintain its support, lest it squander the opportunity to meet the challenges of that new country. I turn now to a number of other noteworthy matters. As a founding party to the Statute of the International Criminal Court, Portugal believes that the election of a first team of judges will be a crucial step towards the Court's effective functioning and 20 credibility. That institution and its regular functioning must become a fixture of the international scene. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) underlines the preoccupation of African countries with the values of democracy and human rights, as well as sustainable economic development and the continent's integration into economic globalization. Bearing such concerns in mind, Portugal will organize the next conference between the European Union and Africa, to be held in April 2003. Africa is a priority for us. Therefore, we support initiatives to energize the development policies and economies of that forgotten continent. Finally, we welcome Switzerland's accession to membership of the United Nations. The presence of the Swiss Confederation will certainly benefit United Nations action. (spoke in English) The way in which the world embraces the new challenges it faces will be the best indication that the events of one year ago resulted in a triumph for the international community. A safer world is founded on secure countries representing all their people and living in peace. That is how terrorism will eventually be defeated, and out of that the new international order should gradually emerge. Security can no longer be conceived in exclusively military terms or solely in terms of territorial defence. Several factors must be taken into consideration: the widespread development of weapons of mass destruction; the proliferation of other threats, such as environmental degradation, diseases such as HIV/AIDS, famine and migration, which transcend State borders; and factors affecting the ability of many States to face the challenge of globalization. Thus, no nation, however powerful, is self-sufficient; not even the greatest of countries can do everything on its own. Multilateral cooperation is the key to the future. One of the basic goals of the United Nations should be to implement such cooperation in a practical and consistent manner.  ﻿The current Chairman of the European Union, Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, has already had an opportunity to state to the Assembly the priorities and positions of the European Union. Luxembourg, through its commitment on a day-to-day basis, reaffirms its dedication to multilateral cooperation and to the work of this universal Organization. President Kavan, you assumed your important post through a new procedure designed to revitalize the work of the General Assembly and intensify its impact. I am sure that under your guidance we will achieve other significant successes. Mr. Han Seung-soo guided the work of the previous session during a period when the international situation was difficult and beset by serious problems. Thanks to his extensive experience and his understanding of international issues, a calm and fraternal message of cooperation and concerted action resulted from our debates. We all are deeply grateful to him for that. 4 Our Organization also has the advantage of having a Secretary-General whose humanism and outstanding diplomatic skills are universally acknowledged. He has begun his second term with his characteristic dynamism, which we all admire. We wholeheartedly support the Secretary-General in the discharge of his important mission. There is no doubt that multilateralism and the support of the United Nations system for it have their own particular dynamic. We are counting on him to guide the Organization in accordance with the guidelines set out in the important statement he made last Thursday. Regarding Iraq, we believe that the international community must continue to work through the United Nations, which is charged with the maintenance of international peace and security. Iraq must provide unconditional and unimpeded access to the inspectors as well as the necessary cooperation. It must fulfil its obligations immediately. We are determined to support the efforts of the United Nations to achieve that goal. International law was strengthened considerably with the entry into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court on 1 July last. This represents a major step forward in the process of the promotion of the rule of law and in the fight against impunity. This young institution must receive our full support. Indeed, it represents a guarantee in terms of the desire for protection, which is so deeply rooted in each of us. The broadest possible ratification of the Statute of the Court must remain a high-priority objective of the international community. The European Union is actively working to that end to ensure that the Court is genuinely universal in nature. In the same multilateral context, the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development has just concluded with the observation that our planet's natural reserves and resources are limited and that only solidarity can reconcile the legitimacy of development and the preservation of an environment that respects life. It is humankind's responsibility to achieve a balance in these two cases. The Summit charted a course through the Plan of Implementation, which sets out objectives and timetables. Some may feel that they are not ambitious enough, but they certainly can guide us. We need to implement this plan, and here new partnerships between the United Nations, Governments, companies and civil society are an important tool. Governments, however, still must shoulder all of their responsibilities. In Doha, the World Trade Organization decided to link the opening of markets and technical assistance to development. In Monterrey, a global consensus emerged regarding financing for development. In the wake of Johannesburg, there is a need now to create synergetic relationships between public assistance, support from companies, local resources and the commitment of non-governmental organizations. Poverty, pollution, overexploitation and, unfortunately, violence, too, will continue for a long time to fuel pessimism. However, we are encouraged to note that democracy and good governance are concepts and practices that are moving forward and that are increasingly broadly accepted. In this context, I should like to pay tribute to the young African Union, which specifically included among its objectives the advancement of the principles of democracy and its corollary, the protection of human rights. Human rights, democracy, development and security are closely linked. The Council of Europe, whose principal mission is the championing of human rights, pluralist democracy and the rule of law, has, like the United Nations, had to face an tremendous challenge following the events of 11 September. Like this universal Organization, the Council of Europe, whose chairmanship Luxembourg has held since May — its tenure is for a six-month period — has taken a series of specific measures in the international campaign against terrorism. In addition to advancing the process of the signing and ratification of international instruments, the Council has devised guidelines for an international campaign that includes full respect for human rights. Indeed, when security is threatened, respect for human rights becomes all the more important. As statesmen, it is our obligation to prevent anti-terrorist legislation from infringing on, or even destroying, democracy in its attempt to champion the fundamental values of freedom and to safeguard human rights. The events of 11 September provided a new impetus, as we all are well aware, to cooperation between institutional partners and, above all, emphasized the need to pursue dialogue between cultures and religions and to step up the process of reflection on civilizations in order to promote tolerance 5 and universal respect for human rights when we are faced with barbarism. Like the United Nations and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Council of Europe is committed to that policy. Coordination and complementarity between regional and international organizations are, moreover, among those priorities that Luxembourg has set for its chairmanship. It might thus be useful to establish links here with the important centres of the Council of Europe, namely the European Court of Human Rights — a unique mechanism for the protection of human rights; the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance; and, finally, the Committee for the Prevention of Torture. It is indeed my hope that the important work on norms and standards carried out by the Committee at the European level will one day be implemented at the international level, and that the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture — a Protocol that the Assembly will soon be called on to endorse — will enjoy the same success as its European predecessor. The establishment of the rule of law for all of us is an objective for which the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs. Mary Robinson worked tirelessly. She deserves our gratitude for her courage and her contribution to this vital cause. Her successor, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, can also count on our full cooperation and support. The special session of the General Assembly on the rights of children in May 2002 allowed us, once again, to condemn that indifference which kills and causes great suffering to millions of disadvantaged and defenceless individuals. While the Convention on the Rights of the Child has made it possible to specifically improve the lives of countless individuals, work must be stepped up and expanded in order to guarantee that there will be a real difference for generations to come. We view action in favour of women, which falls under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, in the same context. Luxembourg would like to reaffirm its dedication to the significant work carried out by the United Nations funds and agencies in these areas. In particular I would like to mention the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). International action for reproductive health is at the crux of their programmes and today it remains indispensable. It requires firm support and the necessary budgetary resources. This is why Luxembourg firmly supports the efforts of UNFPA. Reducing funding for women in difficulty is totally unjust and considerably increases the suffering of these individuals. To be sure, the work of those dedicated persons who inspire these programmes — including quite a few non-governmental organizations — will not come to an end any more than the labours of Sisyphus. But, are we not all aware of the progress which has been made possible in the daily life of individuals, groups and peoples, progress made through institutions which have been carefully conceived, democratically established, well managed, which in addition benefit from the moral authority provided them by the United Nations? Bearing in mind the destiny of the individuals who are threatened here, international officials must be provided with the means to detect at an early stage any possible violation of peace and international security. A heightened awareness of our responsibility to provide for the protection of civilian populations is in fact necessary to allow for preventive action and, in particular, for maintaining peace. As has been rightly noted by the Secretary- General, such preventive action should be done by strengthening the capacity of operational and structural prevention on all levels: local as well as national, regional and international, bilateral and multilateral. Increased interaction between all these levels is required so as to replace a culture of reaction by a genuine culture of prevention. The importance of investing in conflict prevention strategies, which may only yield fruit much later, is not always obvious. Such a choice requires a strong will of commitment by all of its players. For its part, our universal Organization, through the Security Council and other bodies of the United Nations system, is dedicated to defining an outline of possible international action for prevention to make it more systematic and effective. The pivotal role of the United Nations and its authority are essential to achieve this end. It will be up to the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly to deal with this question as well. Increasingly, the need to focus attention on the destinies and tragedies experienced by victims and 6 react to the fact that conflicts today deliberately and increasingly claim victims among the civilian population can be given priority status, because international relations today are no longer hampered by the ideological battles of yesterday. However, antagonisms have not disappeared and may even cloak themselves in new forms. We need to remain vigilant. One year ago, the international community was deeply shaken by the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 against the civilian populations of New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. A few days ago we visited Ground Zero as a sign of our grief and to reaffirm our determination to act against barbarity. While we can indeed note that the efforts made since that tragic day to combat international terrorism have achieved some specific results, this should not, however, prompt us to let down our guard. Other tragedies are still open wounds, such as the particularly obvious case of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The Middle East, since Oslo, has seen extraordinary efforts at mediation. Faced with violence and hate, non-intervention and keeping one's distance are not real options. Efforts are continuing, aimed at creating conditions for new negotiations that might make it possible to conclude the work that has been languishing since Taba. The European Union is actively participating in this process and is making efforts, through new initiatives of the Danish presidency, to once again put the political context at the heart of our concerns. The tireless efforts of the international community are required to emphasize the need for moderation. Moderates, on whatever side, have no easy task when faced with extremism. But we support them. Peace requires all of us, in fact, to be internally split, as noted by Mr. Shlomo Ben Ami, but, I would add, it will also include reconciliation. And this must be prepared with the new external partner and also with those reluctant domestic forces, which must be reintegrated into the peace process. Developments in Sri Lanka, moreover, demonstrate that hope can win the day over violence. In the case of Timor-Leste, it is also thanks to the United Nations that this hope has been fulfilled. And in Africa, several hotbeds of tension have been eased in 2002, in Angola, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Burundi in particular. The effort made by the international community in Afghanistan must, as we know, be continued over time to insure the establishment and functioning of a stable democratic and fully representative State. The process of normalization under way in the Balkans deserves similar attention. After some 160 years of existence as an independent State, Luxembourg is fully aware of the limits inherent in its size and the means available to it. In foreign policy we are acting with the firm conviction that the multilateral system of cooperation is one which provides a place and a role for everyone. In an interdependent world, we all must shoulder our responsibilities and make our contribution. And that is the basis of our commitment to the universal Organization, as it is the basis of our action to support development in the world. This is why we wish to raise our official development assistance to 1 per cent of GNP, after having been, in 2001, in the position to go beyond the threshold of 0.7 per cent recommended by the United Nations. Our Organization brings together the international community. It is the unique forum which allows for exchanges and allows us to chart the path for totally new solutions. And I am gratified to see that during this session there are two new Members here in 2002, namely Switzerland and Timor-Leste. We congratulate them on having taken this decision and we extend a warm welcome to them to our Assembly.   ﻿I extend to you, Mr. President, my felicitations on your election. I also congratulate your predecessor, Dr. Han Seung-soo, for his able stewardship of the preceding session of the General Assembly. We commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his commitment and dedicated efforts in the pursuit of the Charter's purposes and principles. I also congratulate Switzerland and East Timor on their admission as members of the United Nations. Last year, this Assembly met under the shadow of the terrorist attacks on New York, our host city. The horror of that day galvanized the international community to combat this modern day evil which threatens to destabilize our societies. Pakistan is in the forefront of the fight against terrorism. We have made major sacrifices in this war. We have interdicted infiltration by Al-Qaida into Pakistan. We have arrested and deported foreign suspects found on our territory. We are determined not to allow anyone to use our soil for terrorist acts inside or outside Pakistan. However, some quarters are unfortunately utilizing the war against terrorism as a vehicle to spread hatred against Islam and Muslims. Terrorism has neither creed nor religion. In a globalized world, religious and cultural diversity should be a vehicle for complementary creativity and dynamism, not the rationale for a new ideological or political confrontation. A sustained dialogue between the Islamic and Western nations is essential to remove the veil of ignorance and prejudice and to promote harmony and cooperation. As a first step, may I propose that the General Assembly consider the adoption of a declaration on religious and cultural understanding, harmony and cooperation. There is a need to address the root causes of terrorism. It is not religion which impels a terrorist act; it is often a sense of frustration and powerlessness to redress persistent injustices. When a people's right to self-determination and freedom are brutally suppressed by foreign occupation, they may be driven to put up 15 resistance by all means. Terrorist attacks must be condemned, but acts of terrorism by individuals or groups cannot be the justification to outlaw the just struggle of a people for self-determination and liberation from colonial or foreign occupation, nor can it justify state terrorism. Misusing the rationale of war against terrorism, India has sought to delegitimize the Kashmiri freedom struggle, tarnish Pakistan with the brush of terrorism and drive a wedge between Pakistan and its coalition partners. Boasting of its coercive capability, India has deployed about a million troops in battle formation against Pakistan. Such threatening and aggressive posturing will not resolve disputes. We in Pakistan cannot be coerced or frightened into compromising our principled position on Kashmir. The conflict in occupied Kashmir is being waged by the Kashmiris themselves. No amount of external assistance could have inspired the Kashmiri people to sacrifice the lives of 80,000 of their youth and to sustain their struggle for decades against India's occupation army. India's planned elections in Kashmir will once again be rigged. Such elections, under Indian occupation, will not help peace. They may set it back, in fact. The people of Jammu and Kashmir must be allowed to exercise their right to determine their own future in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. Despite India's provocations and threats over the past year, Pakistan has acted with restraint and responsibility. We have advanced several peace proposals. They have all been spurned by India. Let me declare from this rostrum: Pakistan will not start a conflict with India. But let me also declare that, if war is thrust upon us, we shall exercise our right to self- defence fully and very effectively. Today, peace in South Asia is hostage to one accident, one act of terrorism, one strategic miscalculation by India. In this dangerous situation, crisis management should not be allowed to become a substitute for conflict resolution. The steps required to avoid a conflict and advance peace in South Asia are clear: first, mutual withdrawal of forward-deployed forces by both States; secondly, observance of a ceasefire along the Line of Control in Kashmir; and, finally, cessation of India's state terrorism against the Kashmiri people. Simultaneously to all this, a dialogue must be resumed between India and Pakistan. The structure for such a dialogue was agreed between Prime Minister Vajpayee and myself at Agra. The Kashmiris should be fully associated with the dialogue on Kashmir and should be allowed to travel freely to Pakistan and Azad Kashmir. To ensure sustainable peace and stability in South Asia, a Kashmir solution should be accompanied by agreed measures for nuclear restraint and a conventional arms balance between India and Pakistan. India's ongoing massive military build-up reflects its known desire for domination over South Asia and the Indian Ocean. In the interest of regional and global stability, this must be discouraged. India's belligerence also reflects the chauvinistic ideology of the Hindu extremist parties and organizations. Rising Hindu fanaticism in India has targeted Muslims, Christians, Sikhs and even the scheduled-caste Hindus. Last February, an estimated 2,000 innocent Muslims were massacred and burned alive in Gujarat with the complicity of the Bharatiya Janata Party's state leaders. There must be accountability for this massacre. The international community must act to oppose extremism in India with the same determination it has displayed in combating terrorism, religious bigotry, ethnic cleansing and fascist tendencies elsewhere in the world. Even as Hindu fundamentalism is rising in India, Pakistan is waging a successful struggle to restore its traditions of a tolerant Islam. We are acting vigorously to eradicate the sad legacy of the Afghanistan war: religious extremism, drugs and guns. We in Pakistan are determined to transform into reality the vision of our founding father, the Quaid-e-Azam Mohammad Ali Jinnah, for a progressive, modern, democratic Islamic State. We wish to play a constructive role in promoting peace and prosperity in South Asia, Central Asia and the Gulf region. In three short years, my Government has laid the foundations of sustainable development and sustainable democracy in Pakistan. We have empowered the people by devolving decision-making to the grass-roots level. We have improved human rights, virtually eliminated exploitive child labour and empowered the women of Pakistan. We have rationalized economic policies and, despite internal and external shocks, set Pakistan on the path of sustained economic growth. Pakistan has also become the first country to set up a human 16 development fund, with the collaboration of the United Nations Development Programme, and a national volunteers corps for the achievement of the millennium goals of poverty alleviation and human development. In 30 days, we will hold national, provincial and Senate elections, completing the process of restoring true democracy in Pakistan. We in Pakistan remain extremely happy with the positive changes in Afghanistan after two decades of conflict. We fully support President Hamid Karzai. We appreciate the efforts of the Secretary-General and his Special Representative, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, to bring hope and peace to the long-suffering Afghan people. We believe that faithful implementation of the Bonn process and the Tokyo commitments is essential for success. Ensuring credible security in Kabul and other centres is of paramount importance. This was brought home by the attempt made a few days ago to assassinate President Karzai. The international community must urgently revive the Middle East peace process also to realize a comprehensive and just peace on the basis of Security Council resolutions and the principle of land for peace. Pakistan supports the full and faithful implementation of all Security Council resolutions. In our globalizing yet divided world, the most important war we must fight is the war against poverty. The objectives of this war have been identified — at the Millennium Summit, at Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg. We must implement the commitments made in an integrated and coherent manner. Let me state here that a pernicious aspect of the international banking system is the stashing away in secret accounts in developed countries of money acquired illegally by corrupt elite from developing countries. An international regime to interdict and return illegally acquired wealth to the developing countries will make a genuine contribution to the reduction of corruption and poverty alleviation in those countries. Despite current differences among Governments, people from both rich and poor nations are beginning to embrace universal values and common goals: avoiding war; ending poverty, hunger, disease, discrimination and human rights violations; promoting democracy; sharing technology; creating decent work for all; and protecting the environment. We must capture this growing spirit of global humanism to advance the quest for global prosperity and universal peace. This can be accomplished only by the United Nations. Our decisions and actions today will shape events of the future. We must rid ourselves of forces of intolerance and radicalism. We have to create a safer world for our future generations — a world of peace and conciliation, not one of conflict and tension.   ﻿At the outset, let me congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to this responsible position. Your vast political experience and diplomatic skills guarantee the successful discharge of your duties, on behalf of the United Nations cause and for the prestige of the friendly Czech Republic. The events of the past year do not allow us to treat this session merely as a routine one; they give a more specific nature. It should go beyond the routine political declarations and should aim at achieving specific results. This session should address the unfinished tasks of the Millennium Declaration and the new challenges to international peace and security, primarily the fight against terrorism. The session should contribute to resolving the persistent problems 17 of underdevelopment, poverty and widespread disease throughout the world. Unfortunately, regional crises and conflicts in different parts of the world continue to dominate the General Assembly agenda. Bulgaria has been closely following the situation in the Middle East, and it supports efforts to find fair and lasting solutions. We share the view that progress can be achieved only on the basis of dialogue and cooperation between the parties concerned and with the active engagement of the “quartet” in this process. The situation in Afghanistan is still volatile. The Government needs comprehensive support to enhance internal stability and security and to rebuild the country. Therefore, Bulgaria has suggested that the external debt of Afghanistan be relieved in order to stimulate economic development of that country. Iraq has been of a focus of attention of the United Nations for the past 12 years. The full implementation of Security Council resolutions concerning Iraq is of urgent importance. We expect Iraq to comply immediately and unconditionally with those resolutions. For its part, the Council must take actions that will uphold its authority and credibility as the single international body responsible for the maintenance of world peace and security. I concur with the views expressed thus far by Secretary-General Kofi Annan, President Bush and other previous speakers about the need to act decisively and without delay to adopt an effective, workable Security Council position on this issue. Bulgaria has come to the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly with the added responsibility of a member of the Security Council. We are strongly committed to the principles of consensus, constructive dialogue and transparency in the work of the Council. The fight against terrorism is a top international priority today. Yesterday's special meeting of the Security Council reaffirmed the validity of resolution 1373 (2001) and commended the work of the Counter- Terrorism Committee. The presidential statement, supported unanimously by the Council, reflects the political will for common action against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. I would add that the fight against terrorism should not lead to persecution on religious or ethnic grounds nor infringe upon human rights. Bulgaria is already a party to all international conventions against terrorism. Moreover, my country has made a substantial contribution to all international efforts by sending its contingent to Afghanistan. Anti-terrorist efforts require a serious rethinking of current approaches to cooperation. We are aware that terrorism is often linked to other security threats, such as organized crime, drug trafficking, corruption, money-laundering and the illegal arms trade. Bulgaria has initiated and actively participated in a number of bilateral and regional cooperation arrangements on these issues. My country is increasingly effective in blocking one of the routes of drug trafficking towards Europe. We have adopted one of the most stringent laws on export controls over the arms trade and have been implementing a whole range of its provisions decisively. Developments in South-Eastern Europe remain dynamic and volatile. Yet, for the first time in recent years it has been positive. I, for one, am optimistic that the legacy of conflict and confrontation could be surmounted at long last, and stability, peace and security can finally be established in the region. This process should be continued and made irreversible. All countries in South-Eastern Europe today share the same European perspective, and this is what gives me grounds for optimism. For Bulgaria, early membership in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is a strategic priority enjoying wide public support. During the years of crisis and post-crisis management in South-Eastern Europe, Bulgaria has shown the capacity and proved its ability to generate stability and security in the region. It continues to promote the effective and strict implementation of the Chemical Weapons and Biological Weapons Conventions. The uncontrolled proliferation of small arms is another source of terrorism. Furthermore, we strongly support the United Nations Programme of Action in this sphere. International human rights protection should take place in the spirit of justice and equality, in line with the United Nations Charter and the principles of international law. The United Nations should be in a position to respond promptly and more effectively to any serious human rights violations. This is why we support the ongoing reforms in the monitoring mechanisms of the Commission on Human Rights. 18 Bulgaria believes that the internal security of any State lies in the exercise of all human rights by persons belonging to minorities within the State and is closely linked to the internal stability of that State. All individuals should enjoy their rights on the basis of non-discrimination and equality before the law. In this regard, we insist that the international community's efforts should be focused primarily on the implementation of existing standards. Decisions should be taken to make the United Nations more effective in fulfilling its numerous responsibilities. Bulgaria supports the reform measures initiated by Secretary-General Kofi Annan. United Nations reform must continue and take into account in future the new political and economic realities. In particular, it must address the specific issues of sustainable development. I emphasize this point, because I am still under the influence of the Johannesburg World Summit, where my country once again confirmed its strong support to efforts targeted at the eradication of poverty and achieving sustainable patterns of production and consumption, as well as providing decent health care and education to the Earth's population. Mr. President, I would like to assure you that Bulgaria regard the work of the United Nations with a great sense of responsibility. We stand ready to participate in the discussions and decision-making on all agenda items. The world today needs resoluteness and firmness in order to meet the new challenges to international peace, security and sustainable development. The United Nations offers the best framework for tackling these challenges. Bulgaria is willing and able to make its contribution to such international efforts.   ﻿It is a great honour and pleasure to congratulate the representative of the Group of Eastern European States on his election to the high post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty- seventh session. On behalf of the delegation of Ukraine, let me wish him success and assure him of our support. I would like to address words of respect and gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo. I would like to take this opportunity to convey cordial congratulations to a new, welcome Member of the United Nations, the Swiss Confederation. We look forward also to welcoming the Democratic Republic of East Timor as a Member of the United Nations shortly. 18 We consider the joining of the United Nations by those States a truly historic event which testifies to the viability of our great family of nations. The first days of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly began with a commemoration of the victims of the horrible terrorist acts of 11 September 2001. Over the past year we have repeatedly reflected on whether those events would remain a tragic moment in history, or whether they would prove to be a turning point. We have been searching for an answer to a question representing the most difficult challenge to humankind: how to preserve the fundamental right of every person — the right to life. For Ukraine, “terror” and “terrorism” are not just words. For decades, the Ukrainian people lived under the oppression of terror, which was raised to the rank of State policy. Next year Ukraine will commemorate the seventieth anniversary of the induced famine which in 1932 and 1933 took the lives of over 7 million Ukrainians. That most tragic event in our modern history, caused by the totalitarian regime, was a brutal act of genocide against the Ukrainian nation. At that time the world failed to respond to our tragedy. Nor did it recognize early enough the face of fascism: certain politicians and certain States thought that that evil would bypass them. The consequences of that inaction turned out to be enormous. Today, at the beginning of a new millennium, I am confident that each of us would like to rely upon the encouraging momentum of change which has taken place in the international arena, and to rely upon the unifying force with which the world responded to the events of 11 September 2001. In the face of the challenge of terrorism, the international community demonstrated its determination and resolve. Tangible results have been achieved by the antiterrorism coalition. We regard the fight against terrorism as one of the aspect of a broad and long-term process of comprehensive international action aimed at abolishing the philosophy of hatred and intolerance, which is exacerbated by conflicts in various regions of the world. The need for a new philosophy is particularly acute on the security front: success of the international presence in Afghanistan, the completion of the peacekeeping mission in East Timor and normalization in the Balkans are taking place alongside the dramatic developments in the Middle East, the so-called frozen conflicts in the post-Soviet space, which remain unresolved, and persistent security problems in Africa. In this context, the United Nations has no right to limit itself to passive observation and uninvolved analysis. At the Millennium Summit, the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, put forward an initiative on developing a comprehensive United Nations strategy for conflict prevention. We hope that ongoing discussions in the United Nations on the recommendations made by the Secretary-General on this issue will contribute to a real shift from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention. The United Nations is capable of utilizing its consolidating force to strengthen the legal basis of international relations. We highly value the United Nations contribution to this process that brought into force the Rome Statute and led to the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Today, it is highly important to ensure the effectiveness of the Court and to preserve the integrity of its Statute. Another priority task in this sphere is to conclude the elaboration of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. This year Ukraine became a party to the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings and the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism. Upon the completion of relevant domestic procedures on the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, Ukraine will be a party to all 12 universal instruments against terrorism. A number of tasks facing the international community in the social and economic spheres are further defining the role of the United Nations as a unique forum for dialogue among developed countries, countries with economies in transition and developing nations. As a member of the Economic and Social Council, Ukraine stresses the need for reform of the Council and for strengthening its coordinating role. That process would, inter alia, significantly strengthen the Organization's potential to ensure consistent and effective implementation of the provisions of the Millennium Declaration, the Monterrey Consensus and the outcome of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg. 19 At the Johannesburg Summit, the President of Ukraine proposed the formulation of innovative financial stimulation mechanisms for developing countries and countries with economies in transition, in particular through debt-for-sustainable-development swaps. In our view, such steps would have a positive impact on nations' rates of economic growth and ecologically responsible development. On 31 December 2001 Ukraine concluded its two-year term of membership of the Security Council. As a member of the Council, our country strived to make practical contributions towards finding solutions to critical security problems in many regions of today's world. Our country's position of principle is still that the Security Council is the only organ with the legitimate right to decide on the use of force, in accordance with the United Nations Charter. At the same time we consistently stand for increased transparency in the Council's work, and we hope that progress on internal changes will allow the process of comprehensive and long-awaited reform to start. An important element of Ukraine's participation in United Nations efforts in the sphere of peace and security will continue to be its contribution to peacekeeping activities of the Organization. We believe that the key role played by United Nations peacekeeping operations and the personal contribution made by each peacekeeper deserve adequate recognition by the international community. I am confident that everybody present in this Hall will share our view. At the current session of the General Assembly, Ukraine will present a draft resolution proposing annual observance of an International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers as a way to pay tribute to the memory of fallen peacekeepers and to honour the participants in ongoing and past missions. We hope this will be unanimously supported. Ukraine views positively the advancement of the stabilization process in the Balkans, in particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Kosovo. Ukraine holds to a consistent position concerning the territorial integrity and inviolability of the borders of the Balkan States, and it fully supports the active involvement of European actors in an effort to further normalize the security situation in the region. In contrast to a promising assessment of the situation in the Balkans, we are compelled to voice our regret over the absence of progress in the settlement of other problems which are of particular interest to Ukraine. Among them is the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict. The absence of confidence between the Georgian and the Abkhaz sides stands in the way of a renewal of political dialogue. As host country to the third meeting of the sides on confidence-building measures, which was held in Yalta in March 2001, Ukraine stands ready to take practical steps, in cooperation with the United Nations and other interested States, in order to renew the spirit of Yalta. Speaking of the situation in Georgia, I cannot fail to mention that Ukraine is deeply concerned at the situation related to developments in the Pankisi valley. Ukraine believes that the existing misunderstandings can be resolved only through peaceful means, in compliance with the norms and principles of international law. We call upon the parties to employ all available political and diplomatic mechanisms to arrive at a mutual understanding and to take advantage of every opportunity to achieve détente in the current situation. Ukraine unconditionally supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia. The situation in the Middle East also remains a source of deep concern for Ukraine. It is quite obvious today that the parties have become trapped in a cycle of violence, which contradicts the true aspirations of both peoples and breeds yet more hatred and desperation. We fully support the efforts of the international community, in particular the Quartet and the countries of the region, aimed at assisting the parties in finding peaceful ways to settle the conflict. Ukraine, for its part, strives to contribute in every possible way to a peaceful settlement. In April this year, during his visit to the region, President Leonid Kuchma presented Ukrainian proposals in the framework of international diplomatic efforts aimed at a peaceful settlement of the Middle East conflict; these envisage a range of parallel steps in the security, economic and political spheres. I should like to take this opportunity to confirm Ukraine's readiness to offer a venue on its territory and to provide all appropriate conditions for the conduct of talks on this issue. The achievement of a final, just and durable peace in the Middle East is not possible without the resumption of peace negotiations on the Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Lebanese tracks. The development of the situation concerning Iraq cannot fail to cause serious concern. We rely on the potential of the United Nations to solve this problem. The resolutions of the Security Council should be fully implemented. We expect that the new round of negotiations between the United Nations and Iraq will help to find ways to resolve this issue. Today, the world looks with hope to the unprecedented integration process on the African continent. We hope that the birth of the African Union will strengthen the spirit of African brotherhood and unity in responding to the numerous challenges that confront the continent: armed conflict, poverty and the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Ukraine welcomes the African Union's establishment and its far-reaching plans to revitalize the continent. We hope that the New Partnership for Africa's Development will unite the nations of the world in a global partnership in support of peace, stability and development on the African continent. For its part, Ukraine is ready to continue to strengthen its cooperation and expand its economic ties with the countries of a united Africa, including in the framework of the new global partnership for the development of the continent. Ensuring the proper implementation of the principles of the supremacy of law, the creation of conditions for economic growth and the effective functioning of the institutions of an open society are goals that remain fundamental in Ukraine's national policy. The President of Ukraine has launched a programme of political reforms to ensure a transition to a parliamentary-presidential form of governance. That process should bring about the further democratization of our society and should lead to consolidation of all domestic resources in order to achieve European standards and to strengthen concord in Ukrainian society. Our determined strategic goal is to become a member of the European Union and of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which should finally ensure the indivisibility of the European political, economic and security space. Our course of action is aimed at making Ukraine a pillar of political stability, economic prosperity and cultural renaissance. Here, I cannot fail to mention a tragic problem for Ukraine that is related to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Our country must address — virtually on its own — a complex set of technological, social and economic problems connected to the mitigation of that disaster's consequences as well as to the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in 2000. We expect that our efforts will be supported by concrete action on the part of the international community, in particular through the implementation of the new United Nations strategy for Chernobyl. Guided by the aspiration to achieve practical results, we are also determined to solve a broad range of other problems that have an important place on the agenda of the world forum. Undoubtedly, the fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic is one of the most challenging of these. I should like to inform the Assembly that a regional conference for the countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia will be held in Ukraine in November this year with the support of the United Nations and of other international partners. I am confident that, a year after the 11 September tragedy in the United States, each of us realizes the particular significance of the tasks facing the United Nations. Looking ahead to the new challenges, we hope that, in the cause of protecting civilization's values, we shall be guided by our wisdom, which will allow us to avoid tragic scenarios and to protect the rights of every inhabitant of the planet, including every new human being who comes into the world even as we speak in this debate: the right to life, the right to dignity, the right to this world.  ﻿On behalf of the delegation of Uganda, I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the deliberations of the fifty- seventh regular session of the General Assembly. We express appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-Soo, for a job well done. We also congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the outstanding work he continues to perform on behalf of the United Nations and the international community. Uganda welcomes to the membership of the United Nations two new members, the Democratic Republic of 5 East Timor, which is soon to become a Member, and the Swiss Confederation, whose admission to the United Nations brings closer to realization the goal of universality of membership of this global Organization. One year after the tragic events of 11 September 2001, the primary role of the United Nations to maintain international peace and security must be strengthened, in order to ensure that the tragedy that befell New York City and Washington D.C., last year is not repeated anywhere on this globe. The United Nations, together with all Member States, must make every effort to eradicate the scourge of terrorism from the world. The Government and people of Uganda stand united with all peace- loving countries of the world in condemning and resisting acts of terrorism carried out by cowardly and barbaric forces. The use of indiscriminate violence cannot be justified under any circumstances and, therefore, must be roundly condemned. The people of Uganda have been victims of senseless acts of terrorism perpetrated by terrorist groups such as the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) and the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) for many years. Uganda is committed to efforts to bring the perpetrators of terrorism and their collaborators to justice. Uganda is ready to cooperate with other countries in the implementation of the provisions of existing international anti-terrorist conventions, as well as the conclusion of new international instruments to counter terrorism comprehensively. At the domestic level, Uganda recently enacted a law called the Suppression of Terrorism Act. The enactment of that law is clear testimony to the commitment of the Government of Uganda to fight terrorism both at home and abroad. The scourge of conflicts on the African continent has for decades been one of the major contributors to socio-economic decline, causing untold suffering, as civilian populations are forced into living as refugees and internally displaced persons. Bearing that in mind, we welcome the historic decision of the inaugural Assembly of the African Union to establish the Peace and Security Council of the African Union to deal with the scourge of conflicts in Africa and to ensure that peace, stability and security prevail on the African continent. Uganda has duly signed the Protocol relating to the establishment of the Peace and Security Council. As a collective security and early-warning body, the Peace and Security Council will enhance Africa's capacity to manage conflicts by facilitating timely and efficient response to conflict and crisis situations on the continent. I wish to call upon our development partners and upon the international community at large to support Africa in this new endeavour. In conformity with our commitment to restore peace and stability in the Great Lakes region, and consistent with the spirit of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, the Presidents of Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo signed an Agreement in Luanda, Angola, on 6 September 2002. That agreement provides for total withdrawal of Ugandan troops from the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, normalization of relations and cooperation in the economic and social fields. Under the Agreement, Uganda undertakes to withdraw all its troops from Beni, Gbadolite and Bunia within a period of 100 days. As of now, we have withdrawn all our troops from Beni, and by the weekend we shall have no troops in Gbadolite. At the same time, the two countries agreed to establish a joint security mechanism for the western slopes of the Rwenzori mountains in order to address Uganda's security concerns. Also of importance is the undertaking by the parties to refrain from all types of military and logistical support — including the provision of bases and sanctuary to armed groups, inter-ethnic militias, subversive organizations and all rebel movements — against each other. Uganda is indebted to the Government of The Republic of Angola for its crucial engagement, which led to that breakthrough. As Chair of the regional initiative on Burundi, Uganda has played a leading role in efforts to find a just and lasting solution to the internal conflict in Burundi. We welcome the conclusion of the Arusha Peace Accord, and I should like to appeal to all the parties to honour the ceasefire and to support fully efforts to implement the Arusha Accord. I thank, in that regard, the Governments of South Africa, Tanzania and Gabon for their tireless efforts. In addition, we pay tribute to former President Nelson Mandela of South Africa for his role as Facilitator. Uganda and the other countries in the region will continue to exert every effort to bring about peace and stability in Burundi. We call upon the United Nations and the rest of the international community to support our efforts to restore peace in Burundi. Since the Nairobi Agreement, signed in December 1999 between the Governments of the Sudan 6 and Uganda and facilitated by former President Jimmy Carter of the United States and by President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya, relations between Sudan and Uganda have continued to witness steady and satisfactory progress. To date, the Sudan and Uganda have agreed to restore cooperation in the political, security and diplomatic fields. We have also agreed to establish a joint ministerial commission to oversee further cooperation in all areas. Uganda strongly supports and is actively participating in the negotiations initiated by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development aimed at resolving the conflict between the Government of the Sudan and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement/ Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLM/SPLA), which culminated in the breakthrough of the Machakos Protocol on 20 July 2002. Indeed, it was in the spirit of hopeful anticipation of peace that President Museveni hosted a historic meeting in Kampala on 27 July 2002 between President Al-Bashir of the Sudan and the Chairman of the SPLM/SPLA, Dr. John Garang de Mabior. Therefore, it is extremely unfortunate and regrettable that the second phase of the Machakos negotiations between the two Sudanese parties has stalled. The Government of Uganda calls upon the international community, especially the countries of the region, to demand a return to the negotiating table by the Sudanese parties so that a comprehensive, just and lasting settlement can be reached. The situation in Somalia continues to be volatile and the prospects for peace elusive. Following the Arta agreement and the formation of the Transitional National Government of Somalia, the position of Uganda has been to encourage the reconciliation process and an all-inclusive and broad-based administration for that country. It is in that context that Uganda looks forward to the convening of the forthcoming Somali peace and reconciliation conference, which is due to start in Nairobi, Kenya, on 15 October 2002. Uganda is concerned at the lack of progress in efforts to find a just and permanent solution to the question of Western Sahara, which has remained unresolved since the former colonial Power abandoned the territory in 1975. We urge the United Nations to hold, as soon as possible, a referendum to enable the Saharawi people to exercise their inalienable right to self-determination, in accordance with the relevant General Assembly resolutions. Uganda supports the right of the Palestinian people to a homeland, and we appeal to the two parties to resume negotiations with a view to finding a just and lasting solution to the Middle East crisis. Uganda supports the establishment of a Palestinian State to exist side by side in peace with the State of Israel. Uganda participated actively and at the highest level at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg, South Africa. The Summit was clearly one of this year's major events in the field of development. Uganda welcomes the outcome of that conference, which reaffirmed the principles and priorities of Agenda 21. In focusing on poverty eradication, the Summit established the essential integration of the three concepts of people, planet and prosperity. We believe that the challenge now before the international community is to implement, fully and expeditiously, the concrete agreements reached at the conference. This session of the General Assembly must, therefore, translate the aspirations of the developing countries expressed at the conference into reality. We believe that all countries have an obligation to implement the Johannesburg Plan of Action and Declaration on sustainable development and, by so doing, to contribute towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, adopted by the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session. Uganda welcomes the international consensus reached at Monterrey in March this year, including new development assistance commitments for financing the development of developing countries. We appeal to our development partners and to international financial institutions to provide additional resources and to honour the agreed targets for official development assistance. The priority accorded to the eradication of poverty by the Millennium Summit and, in particular, the goal of reducing poverty by half by 2015 will not be realized unless all countries — especially developed countries — honour the obligations and commitments that have been agreed to by the international community. Uganda is committed to fulfilling the objectives and goals of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). In that connection, we welcome the Group of Eight (G-8) Africa Action Plan, adopted by the heads of State or Government of the eight major industrialized countries at their Summit at Kananaskis, Canada. NEPAD recognizes that the primary responsibility for Africa's future and for its development rests with Africans, but Africa needs 7 support from its development partners. It is against that background that Uganda appreciates the commitment made by the G-8 Governments to mobilize and energize global action, to marshal resources and expertise, and to provide impetus in support of NEPAD's objectives. We welcome the adoption of the United Nations Declaration on the New Partnership for Africa's Development by this session of the General Assembly (resolution 57/2) and the overwhelming support that NEPAD has received from the international community. Uganda believes that trade — especially free and fair trade — is the engine of growth and development. In that regard, we urge the international community to make every effort to ensure that the multilateral trading system caters for the special needs of the least developed countries with practical measures that can improve their terms of trade, enhance their export capacity and sustain their balance of payments. The major agricultural products of the least developed countries, such as coffee, cotton, bananas and tea, are exported to several markets, notably the European Union, the United States of America and Canada. Because of that fact, conditions of market access are of critical importance for defining the trading opportunities of the least developed countries. While Uganda welcomes the African Growth and Opportunity Act adopted by the United States and the European Union's Everything But Arms initiative, we believe these positive developments should be complemented by simplified rules of origin and coordinated programmes of assistance by the donor community to increase the capacity of least developed countries to produce and market more. We are encouraged by Canada's unilateral decision to lift tariffs on African exports to Canada and to abolish subsidies on agricultural products. We urge other countries to emulate this positive example. The collapse of commodity prices has contributed to a drastic decline in the terms of trade of the least developed countries. This matter deserves urgent attention by the international community if the least developed countries are to be fully integrated into the multilateral trading system. We call upon the international community to implement fully the provisions of the Doha Declaration in favour of the least developed countries and, in addition, to provide technical support to build their capacity in ongoing negotiations. In the short term, aid can be — indeed, it has been — beneficial for the development of developing countries. In that respect, Uganda would like to appeal to the donor countries to make the necessary effort to honour the agreed target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product for official development assistance. We thank those countries which have already reached or even surpassed that target. I would like to say that Uganda supports the Secretary-General's efforts to reform the United Nations system to make it more efficient and effective. Reform of the Security Council is, however, long overdue. We appeal to all Member States to expedite the process of reform, including the expansion of the Council's membership in its permanent and non- permanent categories. Finally, I would like to reiterate Uganda's full commitment to multilateralism and to the principles and purposes of the United Nations. We are ready to make every effort to achieve the lofty goals set by the international community at the Millennium Summit.  ﻿My delegation associates itself with compliments extended to the President following his election to the presidency of this session, to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, and to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan. The admissions of the Democratic Republic of East Timor and of the Swiss Confederation to membership of the Organization are a joyous occasion for my delegation. We welcome and indeed congratulate those two countries and nations as they join our family of nations. As we meet here today, Lesotho and some other countries of the southern African subregion are in the grip of a most devastating and unprecedented food shortage, as a result of a combination of floods, unseasonable frost and drought, consequent upon climatic changes that have hit the region in the recent past. On 19 April of this year, when the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotho declared a state of famine, it was evident that over half a million people, out of a total of 2.2 million, faced a severe food crisis. Since then, efforts have been made at the national level to address the problem. Let me take this opportunity, on behalf of the Government and the people of the Kingdom of Lesotho and, indeed, on my own behalf, to express our gratitude for the rapid response of the United Nations and its specialized agencies and programmes and that of the donor community to the crisis facing my country. HIV/AIDS, which has emerged as a major health and development threat, continues to be a source of grave concern in my country. Most of those who are infected are between the ages of 15 and 45 and constitute the potential and active workforce in Lesotho. Of equally great concern is the corrosive effect that HIV/AIDS has on the family structure and on the social fabric of our society. We now have a large number of orphans and child-headed households. Those who are sick not only lack adequate counselling and medicine but also lack care and support. My delegation therefore makes a special appeal to the international community to provide adequate financial support for the African countries, in order to arrest and, indeed, to redress the spread of HIV/AIDS. In this regard, the efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations in establishing the Global Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are most welcome. Indeed, Africa as a whole needs unconditional support in many other areas, particularly in the sectors of agriculture, health, nutrition, water and sanitation and education. Undoubtedly, there is a strong link between poverty and the scourge of HIV/ AIDS. The Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development, the Doha Ministerial Conference on trade and the World Summit on Sustainable Development provided useful forums for discussing steps that must be taken to remove obstacles to economic growth and sustainable development, particularly in the developing countries. We are hopeful that commitments made by our cooperating partners mark a beginning of the process of helping the least developed countries (LDCs) to translate goals and targets of major global conferences and summits into concrete actions. My delegation reiterates that the marginalization of LDCs can be ended only if they are assisted in integrating profitably into the global economy. Africa took a very bold and decisive step recently in Durban, South Africa, in launching the African Union. There is no doubt, as many may have observed, that while the road to this Union was strewn with many obstacles, there is now some light at the end of the tunnel. This hope is premised on the principles that have guided us in the last thirty-nine years of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The Africa of today is committed to the principles of democracy, stability, peace, security, good governance and the rule of law. Above all, modern Africa is committed to good economic management because it is, indeed, the mismanagement of our economies that has often led to conflicts on the continent. 5 The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is a home-grown African strategy and an African Union programme for Africa's development. It is a commitment by African leaders to eradicate poverty and to place the continent on a path of lasting growth and development. My delegation, therefore, appeals for more international support for NEPAD. We believe that the role of the entire international community in supporting NEPAD, and the role of the United Nations in the coordination and synchronization of activities related to ensuring its success, would indeed provide a fresh impetus for Africa's development. The right of a people to self-determination is a human right and a fundamental principle enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The peoples of Western Sahara and Palestine, therefore, deserve no less. Hence, my delegation urges that efforts to emancipate these nations be strengthened and speeded up. Lesotho is gratified that one of the oldest and longest running conflicts in Africa has finally come to an end with the signing of the ceasefire in Luanda, Angola, early this year, by the representatives of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) and the Government of Angola. However, Lesotho and other Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries, as well as the international community at large, are alarmed by the harsh social and economic conditions that confront internally displaced persons and refugees who return to their homes in Angola. We appreciate the efforts of the entire United Nations system to address this situation. We are of the view that a lot more still needs to be done for the Angolan people, including the provision of significant additional resources as called for by the United Nations Secretary-General, in order to address the humanitarian needs of the people of Angola. Despite the temporary disruption of the ceasefire negotiations, my delegation is convinced that the Machakos Protocol signed between the Government of the Sudan and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement and Army, remains a viable framework for the realization of durable peace in the Sudan. We urge the warring parties to return to the negotiation table in earnest and in good faith. The situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo has also been a source of concern to us all. We wish to congratulate the Governments of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda and Uganda for the signing of the peace agreements, which should pave the way for the withdrawal of troops from the Democratic Republic of Congo. We believe that this will also ensure that the security concerns of the neighbouring countries are adequately addressed, whilst at the same time creating conditions that are conducive for the Congolese people to live in peace in their own country. Terrorism has become one of the most pressing concerns of the international community in recent times. The Government of Lesotho has joined other peace-loving members of the international community in waging war against this heinous crime. The Government of Lesotho is committed to the full implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), and, despite financial and technical constraints, we will continue to discharge our obligations, as stipulated in that resolution. The shocking images of atrocities perpetrated in Rwanda and in the former Yugoslavia will forever be embedded in our minds. They have served as a painful reminder to the international community that such crimes should never go unaccounted for and their perpetrators unpunished. In that spirit we hail the landmark agreement reached between the United Nations and the Government of Sierra Leone to establish an independent special court for the prosecution of those responsible for the serious decade- long crimes against humanity committed in the territory of Sierra Leone. We hope that the creation of this special court will contribute greatly to the process of national reconciliation and healing, as well as to the restoration and maintenance of peace in Sierra Leone. The Government of Lesotho reveres the coming into force of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, a momentous period when the countries of the world affirmed their intolerance of those who commit crimes against humanity with impunity. We therefore invite those States that have not yet done so, to become party to the Statute, so that we may embark on this noble but difficult pursuit in solidarity. I should not conclude this statement without making reference to the issue of the reform of the Security Council. The process of democratization is, 6 indeed, very difficult, and yet inevitable. It essentially involves a lot of compromise and understanding on the part of those who cherish and uphold the basic tenets of democracy and equality of States. My delegation therefore wishes to reiterate its concern that this organ of the United Nations, which is charged with the maintenance of international peace and security, has itself not yet moved to be more inclusive and more representative. Here again, efforts need to be redoubled and the pace accelerated.  ﻿The recognized leadership of Mr. Jan Kavan will guarantee the success of our debates. Together with congratulating him on his election to the presidency, I should like to assure him that he can count on my Government's full cooperation in his work. I come to this universal forum on behalf of a people which last November renewed its commitment to democracy. Representing the constitutional Government headed by Mr. Ricardo Maduro Joest, who has made the welfare of his people the essence of his mandate, I come with a message of peace and friendship from Honduras addressed to all the nations gathered here. My country's Government, born of the will of the people through a free and transparent election regarded as a model, has in a few months brought about changes that have strengthened Honduran democracy. It has implemented historic institutional reforms, such as the depoliticization of the Supreme Court of Justice, the disallowing of participation in the presidential election from positions of political advantage, the creation of a higher accounting tribunal to exercise overall monetary control, and the depoliticization of the national electoral tribunal. Moreover, it has developed civil security schemes and measures that are effective and respectful of human rights, all within a context of transparency in administrative management and a head- on campaign against corruption and extreme poverty. As a Government, we are doing what we responsibly must do, and in that work we wish to continue to rely on the friendly and respectful assistance of the international community, to which we likewise offer our solidarity and cooperation. Moreover, I come to the Assembly with the firm 37 resolve to associate my country with the efforts of all Member States to realize fully the purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter. I come to the Organization also to offer my Government's cooperation in the building of peace, in the maintenance of international security and in the forging of a global alliance for human development. The day 11 September 2001 is an indelible date in the history of humanity. The unprecedented terrorist attacks changed for ever the face of New York, the iron Babel', which, despite its great sorrow and grief, continues to offer us its hospitality. Thousands of families belonging to many peoples of the United Nations, including mine, were plunged into grief and pain on that fateful day. Our condolences and solidarity are with them. As it did on that tragic occasion, the Government of Honduras condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Accordingly, I take this opportunity to reaffirm in this world forum our unswerving commitment to use all our skill and energy to combat this scourge that threatens civilized coexistence among nations. With the same conviction, Honduras reaffirms its resolve to cooperate with other democratic nations in the common undertaking to eradicate this evil, thus building a better and less violent world. Since 11 September 2001, many things have changed. However, other threats persist and continue to loom over our peoples, making increasingly imperative the quest for new consensus and greater commitments. Following the Millennium Summit, three conferences at the highest level and of the most far-reaching importance have been held in recent months. Our heads of State or Government met first in Monterrey to consider the issues of financing for development, later in Rome to address the problem of world hunger and, most recently, in Johannesburg to debate the great challenges of sustainable development. From each of those conferences, we have emerged moderately satisfied in terms of concrete results. However, we recognize that the dialogue must continue so that we can together seek new forms of cooperation to alleviate the hunger and pain of a large part of humanity, whose very survival is in danger as a result of the vortex of economic development taking place at the cost of the planet's destruction. All of those commitments demand a United Nations revitalized in its action and strengthened in its internal structure. The time has come to reconsider creatively and with greater determination the organizational structure of the Security Council, an organ that cannot continue to turn its back on a reality is very different from that of 1945. Honduras will not rest in its insistence on the need to abolish or restrict the right of veto enjoyed by some Members of the Organization. Likewise, my country believes that the States contributing to development should have a seat and participate in the debate and work of that important United Nations organ. The time has come to join in our resolve to seek mechanisms and decisions that will secure the full participation of all the peoples and nations of the Earth. It is time for those who have been Members of the Organization to return. For that reason, Honduras believes that we should not continue the practice of excluding from our debates and our work concrete realities such as Taiwan, a country whose participation could offer new opportunities for cooperation for the benefit of many peoples, and which, in turn could benefit from our activity and decisions. In essence, Honduras pleads for a new United Nations in which all peoples and nations enjoy full representation and in which there is more just and balanced representativity in the discussions and in the resultant resolutions. In this context, Honduras welcomes the accession of Switzerland and the incorporation of Timor-Leste into our world Organization. I take this opportunity to wish them the warmest of welcomes. In the broad and comprehensive vision of what, in my Government's opinion, this Organization should be, special mention must be made of the International Court of Justice, since it is the jurisdictional organ of the United Nations system and all States Members have committed themselves to complying with its decisions in the cases to which they are party. Just as Honduras endorses the principles and practices of international law that promote human solidarity, respect for the self-determination of peoples, non-interference and the safeguarding of universal peace and democracy, we also proclaim the validity and compulsory application of international arbitration and judicial rulings to be irrevocable. Consistent with this state philosophy, my country is absolutely convinced that compliance with international rulings handed down by a competent international court, as 38 well as good-faith compliance with the commitments undertaken by means of treaty, will guarantee peace, harmony and security among peoples and Governments. Honduras feels that the very credibility of a country is at stake when it complies or fails to comply with the obligations arising from an international ruling. As for Honduras, the resolution of a competent international court has constitutional weight and its effects require immediate execution, for we believe that law and legality are unshirkable imperatives of the new international order. Moreover, in my Government's opinion, they are the cornerstone of international society in this century. Prompted by this conviction, in January my country turned to the Security Council, in its capacity as guarantor of the implementation of the rulings of the International Court of Justice, in seeking the requisite cooperation to ensure compliance with the ruling that the Court handed down 10 years ago in the dispute which, by common agreement with the Republic of El Salvador, we submitted to it for consideration and decision. Recent events in our countries have led us to believe that the implementation of the ruling will begin very soon as a result of talks between the Presidents of the two nations. We sincerely hope that this may be the case, both because we do not wish to distract the Security Council's attention from this matter, which is of importance to our peoples and to the validity of international public law itself, and because we wish to promote the process of integration to which the whole of Central America is now committed. The Central American isthmus is going through a special moment in its history. There is a resolve among our Governments to grasp the future together and, accordingly, we have agreed to promote the creation of a customs union among the partners of the regional integration system, which should be established by December 2003. This renewed integration, as we call it, offers opportunities both for our collectivity and for our neighbours and partners in development, as in the case of Mexico with the Puebla-Panam· plan. Important challenges are also being met in concert, such as the negotiation of a free-trade treaty with the United States of America. We intend later to repeat the experience with the European Union. Despite the significant progress that has been made, and as in other regional systems of States, practices persist that impede the full development of our trade relations. Fortunately, we are striving to overcome these obstacles through dialogue and solutions appropriate to civilized nations which understand that, given our common past, we share a common future. At the present time, there are grounds for grave concern in the face of events and realities that threaten international peace and security. The situation in the Middle East has been a constant cause of concern to all. Honduras appeals to the men and women of that region to repudiate and renounce violence and thus give peace a chance for the sake of a generation of children who see and experience nothing but violence as they grow. This and other bloody conflicts require us to rethink and reformulate new ideas for prompt action. We need to globalize solidarity and human development. The great challenges of this century require us to increase the worldwide presence of the United Nations Development Programme, the World Food Programme, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Environment Programme and other entities and agencies of our system, whose work effectively contributes to establishing the conditions to ensure that all boys, girls, men and women of all ages, regardless of their ethnic origin, colour or religious creed, may live in an environment conducive to the full exercise of their rights. In this context, the peoples of the world are calling for concerted action on the part of our Governments to make the United Nations the world's most efficient Organization for addressing the challenges posed by the millions of men, women and children infected by the HIV virus; by others, suffering unemployment, who have entered the most destitute sectors of society; and by the more than 40 million boys and girls who wander or simply live on the streets. Over time, crimes against humanity have motivated concerted action on the part of all peoples to develop new and advanced schemes for international protection. That is the case with the new International Criminal Court, to which Honduras is honoured to be party. We applaud this revolutionary effort in the administration of criminal justice and hope that, sooner 39 rather than later, all the States Members of the United Nations will join it. I wish to conclude my statement by emphasizing that the great challenges we face in today's world demand concerted and global action. If we truly wish to see the planet survive and, with it, the human race, the time has come to work together responsibly to forge real partnerships for human development and sustainable development for all the peoples of the United Nations.  ﻿It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I am confident that the many posts he has occupied will facilitate his task in leading the deliberations of the General Assembly to their desired objectives. I also express our appreciation to his predecessor for the efforts he made to bring the deliberations of the fifty- sixth session to a successful conclusion. I would be remiss if I failed to express our appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his efforts to preserve the principles and purposes of the 12 United Nations Charter. I wish him success as he strives to contribute successfully to the just solution of the problems that the international community faces. I would also like wholeheartedly to welcome Switzerland as the long-awaited newest Member of the Organization. We look forward to cooperating with it in promoting the principles of the United Nations and safeguarding its Charter. This session of the General Assembly has been convened one year after the 11 September attacks, which had an impact on the current international situation. In the aftermath of the attacks, many grave issues remained unresolved, awaiting effective solutions, and many questions went unanswered. The state of confusion, incertitude and tension on the international scene results from the feeling of the majority of the world's people that they have lost their orientation. This results from a tendency on the part of some to use practices that can be best characterized as unilateral, expressing an appetite for hegemony and monopoly over the wealth of others. The Middle East region is a case in point. After decades of struggle waged by the people of the region to liberate themselves from colonialism and foreign domination and to try to eliminate injustices resulting from the redrawing of maps and the enforcement of artificial borders between them, the people of the region are facing a more vicious attack today than they faced during earlier colonial periods. The Arab countries have condemned the attacks against the United States of America. They have expressed sympathy for the families of the victims. Nonetheless, a year after the event that was officially linked to the Al Qaeda organization and the Taliban movement, the world wonders how those accusations were re-channelled so as to be levelled against the Arab countries to such a degree that some of them are being threatened, while none of them had anything to do with the attacks. The irony is starker since justification for the accusation is usually linked to the presence of some Al Qaeda elements in those countries or to the fact that such elements are nationals of those countries, while it is public knowledge that elements of the Al Qaeda organization are present in more than 60 countries around the world, including the United States of America, according to official American statements. Since the end of the Second World War, our region has witnessed a series of wars and destruction as a result of an Israeli approach based on occupation, settlement building and the uprooting of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians from their homeland. The United Nations has made efforts to find a just solution for the Arab-Israeli conflict. To that end, the United Nations has adopted hundreds of resolutions that Israel has refused to implement, in a stark challenge to the will of the international community. Israel continues to occupy the Golan, the West Bank and Gaza and parts of Lebanese territory. When the Arab countries unanimously launched their peace initiative at the Beirut summit in March 2002, Israel responded by launching a widescale military attack against Palestinian cities, villages and camps in the West Bank. Israel's defiance of international legitimacy assumed proportions that have been condemned by international public opinion, particularly when the Israeli Government refused to receive the fact-finding mission to investigate the details of the massacre at the Jenin refugee camp. Israel has claimed that the crimes it has carried against the Palestinian people under occupation have been carried out in self-defence and in the war against terrorism. We see how Israel has manipulated the war against the Taliban and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan. In that context, it is important to stress that silence in the face of such manipulation amounts to total disregard for human values, as much as it is disregard for defenceless Palestinian souls. Without going into details of the Israeli attacks and violations in which American weapons were used, the only way out of the crisis faced by the peoples of the region is by making Israel abide by relevant Security Council resolutions, which thus far are 28 in number. Is it reasonable for the world to request Iraq to implement Security Council resolutions, while some help Israel remain above international law? It is indeed legitimate for us to ask the United States to distance itself from the aggressive Israeli practices and to apply to Israel the American law that prohibits the use of American weapons against a third party. It is indeed odd that the United States considers Israel to be acting in self-defence in occupied territories, which is not in keeping with Security Council resolutions in whose drafting and adoption the United States itself has participated since the founding of the United Nations. 13 Just and comprehensive peace in our region can be achieved only through the implementation of resolutions of international legitimacy that stress the need for Israel to withdraw from all the Arab territories occupied since June 1967 and to safeguard the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, including the right to establish their independent State with Jerusalem as its capital. Much has been said recently about the danger of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the possibility that international terrorists might acquire such weapons. As is well known, that danger is not limited to one region. Rather, it exists in many regions of the world. It is regrettable that certain parties focus only on some Arab and Muslim countries, and not on others, ignoring in the meantime Israel's nuclear arsenal. All the countries of the region have expressed, year after year, their readiness to make the Middle East region a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction — nuclear, chemical and biological. Today more than ever before, we call for urgent and serious efforts to make our region free of all weapons of mass destruction, under the supervision of the United Nations. We declare from this rostrum that all the Arab countries are prepared to establish such a zone, provided that Israel will agree to establish such a zone and to submit all its nuclear facilities to the safeguards system of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), as have the other Middle East, Arab and Muslim countries of the region. The majority vote that Syria won upon submitting its candidacy for membership to the Security Council highlights the appreciation of these countries for Syria's constructive role in supporting the United Nations. It is well known that Syria has always been in the forefront of countries whose respect for international legitimacy constitutes a principled position in their foreign policy. We agree with the Secretary-General about the necessity of avoiding unilateral measures and resorting instead to working within the framework of the United Nations, which represents international legitimacy. In that light, we see no justification for igniting a new war in the Middle East. We strongly believe that striking Iraq, which no longer occupies the land of others, while keeping silent about the Israeli occupation of the Arab territories occupied since 1967, represents blind bias and a distorted vision of the real situation in the Middle East. The international community is committed to the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. We cannot recall anyone doubting that commitment. We also stress that it is the right of the Iraqi people alone to decide their future without any interference in their internal affairs. It is the duty of all Members of our Organization to commit themselves to the implementation of United Nations resolutions. In keeping with that commitment, Syria supports the resumption of dialogue between Iraq and the Secretary- General with the objective of reaching a political solution that meets the requirements of the Security Council and that grants Iraq hope of peace, security and the lifting of the sanctions imposed on it, especially as Iraq has officially recognized the State of Kuwait and its international borders. Syria has expressed its satisfaction at positive developments in the African continent. We are confident that the establishment of the African Union will have a positive impact on the present and future of that continent and on solving the urgent problems it faces. In that regard, we look forward with true hope to the implementation of agreements recently signed by the parties concerned to end the fighting in Angola, Congo and the Great Lakes region. Syria also expresses its satisfaction at the increasing international support to end the embargo against Cuba. Syria further welcomes the high-level talks between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea and expresses the hope that this rapprochement between the two Koreas will help achieve the aspirations of the people of the Korean peninsula by peaceful means. The Syrian Arab Republic hopes that peace and stability will prevail in Afghanistan in the interest of the Afghan people, who have long suffered the scourges of war and internal strife. Syria supports the efforts of the Government of the Sudan to preserve the unity and territorial integrity of the Sudanese people and calls for a ceasefire in the 14 south of Sudan as a prelude to the resumption of dialogue. Syria supports the Artah agreement reached by the Somalis and deems it the most viable solution for achieving national reconciliation in Somalia. The world's peoples are passing through a difficult test at this critical juncture; the choices of even big and influential countries, are getting narrower rather than broader due to the absence of a just world order. It is to be regretted that the voices of those who call for war rise above the voices of those who call for peace and that those who usurp the rights of people and encroach on their dignity are drowning out the voices of those who defend the rights of people regarding their territory and freedom. But despite this grim picture, right will, in the final analysis, triumph over injustice. That is the correct reading of the history of nations and civilizations; there is no going back. Arab Syria's belief in its rights and the rights of other nations cannot be shaken or undermined by hegemony and the arrogance of power. We are convinced of the possibility of building a world in which all coexist in peace and security, a world free of occupation and hegemony, a world in which all peoples equally share the resources of our globe and the fruits of science and technology in order to achieve prosperity for all.   ﻿In addressing this honourable Assembly, I first wish to convey the greetings of the people of the Republic of Vanuatu. Our future will be determined by the nations represented here today. I also take this opportunity to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly. You have assumed the presidency during a turbulent period in international relations, and my delegation pledges its full support and cooperation to you, as you guide this noble Organization through this difficult time. I also take this opportunity to acknowledge with deep gratitude the contributions of your predecessor, who so competently steered the work of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly to its conclusion. I acknowledge with much gratitude and admiration the outstanding leadership and diplomatic skills of Secretary-General Kofi Annan. His outstanding wisdom has made it possible for the United Nations to maintain its credibility and relevance not only in maintaining international peace throughout the world, but also in ensuring that this Organization continues to address the development challenges confronting the world, including Vanuatu. I am pleased to welcome the Swiss Confederation as a Member of the United Nations. I am looking forward to the imminent admission of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, a nation where Vanuatu was honoured to have participated in the United Nations- administered peacekeeping process. The deeply disturbing events of 11 September will remain etched in our memories for a long time. On behalf of the Government and people of Vanuatu, I have the solemn duty of conveying to the Government and people of the United States of America, including the families of the innocent victims of 11 September 2001, our sincere condolences for the many innocent lives lost on that fatal day of the most inhuman act of modern history. The barbaric and cowardly acts of 11 September have shaken the foundations and principles on which this Organization is built. They have ushered in a new period of global uncertainty. Terrorism has become the scourge of our time. This complex phenomenon has scarred our planet. As responsible members of the international community, we must work closely together in order to eradicate it. However, any action of reprisal or punitive measures must receive universal support through established multilateral and international structures, beginning with the United Nations, the most universally 2 represented organization. It is very dangerous to take any action outside such mechanisms. We request that all actions undertaken must, above all, serve the purpose of guaranteeing justice, peace and security in the future world. In particular, we call upon the initiators of a military action against Iraq to show great wisdom and responsibility to ensure that their decisions do not create a new world order of insecurity, hatred and conflict, defined by cultural, ethnic and religious divisions. All actions taken must be consistent with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and established international law. Although the fight against terrorism has taken centre stage, it must not lead us to forget or to neglect development issues and security concerns inherent to the developing world, in particular, to the small island States. Some resources will inevitably be reallocated to the growing problem of security, but it must not overshadow the development agenda of the developing world. It is in that context that my delegation wishes to associate itself with the statements made by other Pacific island countries in endorsing the Pacific Islands Forum declarations that have been distributed as a United Nations document. The recent World Summit on Sustainable Development held in South Africa unambiguously reminded us that much remains to be done in addressing the challenges inherent to the world's many developing economies. The environment and the negative impact of climate change are of extreme concern, and we urge those countries that have not yet done so to ratify the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible. The ratifications of Japan, the European Union, China and Russia have been most welcome. The aggressive policies of developed countries continue to marginalize many of the world's very small developing economies, such as that of Vanuatu. Binding commitments to international declarations and legislation are the cornerstone of a peaceful and just world in which justice prevails above all. There must be equitable partnerships and cooperation so that we can all contribute our support and confidence. While small nations, such as Vanuatu, are being forced to comply with conditions imposed by developed countries, some of those same nations decide at the same time to impose policies that encroach upon national and regional positions. Vanuatu is firmly opposed to the proliferation of nuclear weapons in all their forms. In that context, my Government once more unreservedly condemns the ongoing transfer of radioactive materials in the Pacific Ocean. The flagrant disregard for national and regional opposition is a clear demonstration of the policies of the powerful. That negligence is shameful in the light of the many ideals and principles espoused by this Organization and its various entities. Given the recent adoption of the Pacific Islands Regional Oceans Policy at the Pacific Islands Leaders Forum in the Republic of the Fiji Islands, I strongly call on the shipping States to respect the efforts of the Pacific Island countries to safeguard their principal resource: the sea. The conditions imposed by the powerful with respect to the initiatives of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) are another clear demonstration of the game of the powerful, in which we see the big nations manipulating the world order to their own advantage. Those abominable policies affect the very boundaries of national sovereignty for the benefit of the developed countries. We must put an end to all this hypocrisy, if we, the small nations, are to be treated fairly and as equal partners in the international community. Vanuatu opposes discriminatory policies and legislation which expose our vulnerability to a very volatile global environment. Some of our national efforts to stimulate economic growth are being stifled by the enormous pressure exerted by the club of the rich, which does everything to ensure that their position prevails. Where does that leave us? I must stress this because Vanuatu has done its best to comply with the OECD initiatives, including through legislation to prevent money-laundering and to ensure transparency in financial transactions. Yet, that rich and influential organization continues to put forward further demands. We are ready to negotiate within a time-frame that must first suit our economic and political requirements. But the OECD must, in turn, be ready and able to provide immediate relief and solutions. Any decision by the OECD to blacklist countries such as Vanuatu is premature and unwarranted. It would serve the interests of the OECD alone. Vanuatu is confronted with a dilemma because the countries that introduced the tax-haven policy during the colonial period continue to place unreasonable demands on our already weak economy. 3 On that note, I must also mention the complicated and extreme difficulties that my country is facing as it struggles through its reform process. Given the established millennium priorities, there is still an acute shortage of financial assistance necessary to effectively implement national development priorities. We have become accustomed to receiving plenty of foreign advice that is, unfortunately, not backed up by real financial support. That has placed an extreme burden on the already scarce resources available in the country. I believe that it is important that our development partners try to better understand the particularities and unique characteristics of not only Vanuatu but also other small and fragile economies of the Pacific islands. The existing ban on exports of kava to Europe and the United States is another indication of the unfair and discriminatory policies practised by the powerful nations. We expect that other countries will, in turn, join the ban. However, there is no scientific evidence to justify those trade sanctions, which have impacted negatively on the economy of Vanuatu. We therefore seek the support and understanding of the international community in order to allow time for the adequate scientific research to be carried out before such trade restrictions are imposed. Kava products exported to Europe and other destinations are mixed with non-kava products. For the moment, it is completely unfair and discriminatory to impose such a ban. My Government fully supports the efforts to reform the United Nations system in order to create a stronger and more efficient organization. On this issue, my delegation endorses the position of other delegations on the need to restructure the membership of the Security Council so that it may better reflect the geographical representation and the under-represented groups of Member States without affecting the Council's authority. The question of Taiwan must also be adequately addressed here. Resolution 2758 (XXVI), adopted by the General Assembly in 1971, resolved the legal and political representation of the People's Republic of China as a Member of the United Nations. Therefore, any attempt by Taiwan to gain admission to the United Nations or to any of its affiliated organs or special agencies will not be supported by my Government. The United Nations must ensure that it does not become involved in the conflict between China and Taiwan, which is a matter totally within China's purview. I should also like to take this opportunity to mention the problem of West Papua. At the Millennium Summit, the then-Prime Minister of Vanuatu touched on the important matter of the principle of self- determination for the people of West Papua. The question of West Papua has always occupied a special place on Vanuatu's foreign policy agenda. The Charter of the United Nations espouses the principles that continue to guide the Organization's efforts with regard to self-determination. We are completely convinced that, if the United Nations is to be consistent in its decisions to promote recognition and respect of the fundamental right to self-determination, the question of West Papua must be placed on the agenda of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. The closed-door policy with regard to the pleas of West Papuans continues to undermine the credibility of the United Nations in terms of its ability to address an essential matter. I think it is in the best interests of the international community that the question of West Papua be revisited. We also request that a commission of inquiry be deployed to verify information on atrocities alleged to have been committed in West Papua. In conclusion, we must continue to support the pivotal role of the United Nations in efforts to create a just and equitable world. We must stem the growing gap between the developed and developing worlds in order to guarantee economic and social prosperity for all — a critical prerequisite to guaranteeing political stability, peace and security throughout the world. The effective implementation of the United Nations agenda for development, in particular the Millennium Declaration and the Monterrey and Johannesburg Declarations, will advance that process. A more favourable international environment will assist the developmental priorities of developing countries and will address the great economic imbalances prevailing today. True goodwill, respect, tolerance and equality will be necessary if we are to move forward. The role of the United Nations will be crucial in that process, but only if support is forthcoming from its Members.  ﻿I should like to begin by congratulating Mr. Kavan on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session and to assure him of my delegation's full support and cooperation. I would also like to commend his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for having skilfully presided over the work of the fifty-sixth session. Similarly, I would like to express my delegation's sincere appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, for the able manner in which he has continued to manage the day- to-day affairs of our Organization in the face of numerous and daunting challenges. My delegation wishes to join others in welcoming the admission to the United Nations of Switzerland, a country that has done so much for the Organization over the years. I would also like to welcome East Timor to the community of nations, following the successful tutelage of the United Nations. As we commemorate the first anniversary of the tragic events of the 11 September terrorist attacks, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate Tanzania's solidarity and support for international efforts to fight terrorism. Coming from a country that experienced a similar tragedy four years ago, I understand the continued pain and suffering of those who lost their loved ones as they come to terms with the aftermath of those tragic events. We have every confidence that, through our collective efforts, the war on terrorism will ultimately be won. It is a welcome coincidence that the fifty-seventh session should be held so soon after the World Summit on Sustainable Development. Tanzania is glad that poverty eradication was underscored as humanity's critical challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, particularly in the developing countries. It was very gratifying, indeed, to note that due regard was also given to the burning issues of 15 education, health, energy, shelter, water and sanitation, as well as agriculture, in particular food security. The abundance of pledges from all speakers and participants to fight poverty, promote social and economic development and enhance measures to deal with pollution and protect the environment was very reassuring indeed. However, many stakeholders, including those from my country, are anxiously waiting to see how we move beyond rhetoric to concrete action. Those of us from the developing countries know too well in this regard that our biggest challenge is to get our act together by practicing and observing good governance, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. We have to institute sound political, social and economic policies, as well as to fight corruption and graft. We have to create conditions conducive to investment flows and trade. Fortunately, this is no longer wanting, because most of our countries have made serious efforts to meet these ideals with reasonable success. However, it is frustrating to note that there is little appreciation of these achievements. Instead, there is amplification of the little that is yet to be overcome. Many of us feel that we deserve to be treated better. It is surprising also to note the temptation in some quarters to evolve a new paradigm in international relations that of assigning collective responsibility, condemnation and punishment to a region or continent for the mistakes of one country in that part of the world. A crisis in an African country, for example, is meant to be left to African countries to fix and they are threatened with being held responsible and accountable if that is not done. Several times, we have been reminded to sort out the problem in some crisis- stricken African countries or else risk losing cooperation on the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) from the developed countries. Tanzania considers such tendencies not only to be strange, but also dangerous, unfair, discriminatory and totally unacceptable. Let all of us continue to work together to resolve problems facing our countries and peoples wherever they may occur. We look forward to seeing the developed countries of the North play their part, as is expected of them, as expressed in the millennium development goals, the Monterrey Consensus, the Brussels Plan of Action for the least developed countries, the Doha agreement and the Johannesburg Plan of Action and at yesterday's historic high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly on support for NEPAD. We consider the role of the developed countries to be very critical to success in the war against poverty and the attainment of sustainable development. We look forward to seeing the countries of the North increase official development assistance to the countries of the South. At Monterrey, Kananaskis and Johannesburg, there were good signs that this is now possible. However, when one looks at the resource requirement of the millennium goals and the time frame for implementation, the promises made are far below target. At Monterrey and Kananaskis, some $12 billion were pledged over a period of three to four years, whereas the requirement is $50 billion annually until 2015. We appeal to the developed countries to commit more resources and within the time frames set out in the millennium development goals. Another important area where the intervention of the developed countries is essential is debt relief. Debt servicing is crippling the economies and Governments of the poor developing countries. Debt relief releases resources which can be used to finance priority sectors and activities, such as education, health, energy, water, rural roads and microfinance schemes. Let me take the example of my country, Tanzania. After reaching the completion point for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative and the cancellation of a portion of the external debt, Government expenditure on basic social services has increased to unprecedented levels. We will now be able to give clean water to more people than we could have done in the past. We are now able to hire more teachers, build more classrooms, take more students into schools and buy more textbooks and teaching materials. We have improved health-care delivery systems. We have hired more medical practitioners in rural dispensaries and health centres and we have provided more equipment and medicines. There are more rural roads maintained now than before and new ones are being opened up. The list of benefits is long and we could have done much more if we had got a bigger debt-cancellation package. That is why we continue to appeal for deeper debt cancellation for Tanzania and the rest of the least developed countries. Moreover, the amount of debt that has not been forgiven to my country is not payable, given our level of poverty. 16 Debt cancellation or relief on its own cannot solve the resource needs of developing countries. Measures to make capital and financial resources available for investments and trade in the developing countries are very important. To date, not much has come to our part of the world, despite our having put in place the most competitive investment incentives. May I once again appeal to the Governments of the developed countries to intervene in the most judicious way possible to encourage investment flows to Africa and the developing countries. I believe that their words of encouragement and support will have a positive impact. Market access is another very important matter for us. We highly appreciate and thank the United States and the European Union for granting duty-free and quota-free access for goods from Africa and the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States respectively. This has acted as an important stimulus to increased production and investments in our countries. We welcome similar decisions taken by Japan, Canada and China, thus further expanding Africa's market access. However, agricultural subsidies in the developed countries remain an obstacle to which we again appeal to the developed countries to give due consideration. As we all know, it is in agriculture that we have the best of the comparative advantage. Unhindered access to the markets of the developed countries, therefore, could have immeasurable benefits. I am of the view that the developed countries can afford to dispense with subsidies to agriculture. Instead, the $1 billion spent on such subsidies daily could be used to fund the implementation of millennium development goals. Among today's daunting global challenges are the conflict situations in Africa and the escalation of violence in the Middle East. We highly appreciate the proactive role played by the United Nations, countries of the respective regions and the international community in trying to mediate and end the conflicts. We pray for the continued involvement of the international community in putting an end to conflicts. The framework for the resumption of negotiations between Israel and the Government of Palestine already exists. Both sides must create an environment conducive to negotiations. There has to be an end to Israeli occupation of Arab lands and significant movement towards the creation of a viable Palestinian State living side by side with Israel as an imperative to lasting peace in the Middle East. The security concerns of Israel should be addressed and encoded properly in any agreement. In this regard, all relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions must be adhered to. It is our conviction that, without the active involvement of a third party, not much can be achieved. Tanzania is convinced that the Security Council, as well as the United States, the Russian Federation, the European Union and the Arab League, can play a pivotal role in getting to a sustainable solution. Fortunately, all of these are now actively involved. We appeal to them to remain seized of the problem and to continue to work together. The situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi remains a major concern and preoccupation of Tanzania and other countries in the region. I want to reaffirm the continued commitment and readiness of my Government to contribute in any way possible towards building a peaceful, secure and stable Great Lakes region. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, it is encouraging to note that there are some positive developments following the recent agreement and understanding reached between that country, Rwanda and Uganda. It is our hope that the implementation of the agreements and understanding will be scrupulously observed. We welcome the undertaking of the United Nations and the Republic of South Africa to help the parties. The security situation in Burundi is fragile. The new transitional Government installed on 1 November 2001 is functioning, but the continuation of the civil war seems to be undermining its base. Tanzania underscores the significance of getting a ceasefire agreement for the sake of the people of Burundi and the success of the transitional Government. It was in appreciation of that imperative that my President accepted the request of the facilitator and that of President Pierre Buyoya of Burundi for Tanzania to help urge the rebels to come to the negotiating table. We tried our best and, as a result, the Burundi Government and the rebels started direct talks in Dar es 17 Salaam on 12 August. The negotiations are continuing. They are not easy, but we are confident that they will be crowned with success. Tanzania will continue to assist in and work for the success of the negotiations. We do so on the clear understanding that we stand to gain more from a peaceful and stable Burundi and to lose if there is war and lack of stability. The end of the refugee problem, as well as the end of mistrust between our two Governments and the free flow of trade across our common borders, are the obvious benefits which we long to see realized. One of the serious consequences of the conflicts in the Great Lakes region has been the massive displacement of people and the influx of refugees, which constitute a huge burden for Tanzania. At present, Tanzania is hosting close to a million refugees from Rwanda, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. While we appreciate the work being done by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and other humanitarian agencies to protect the refugees, much remains to be done to offset the burden which these refugees place upon my country. We would like to see more being done to facilitate repatriation of the refugees. Unfortunately, the 1951 Convention is not as elaborate concerning the responsibilities of refugee- generating countries or those of the international community as it is on the responsibilities of the refugee-receiving countries. This is probably due to the context in which the Convention was conceived. The situation has changed. Tanzania feels strongly that there is a need to review the 1951 Convention to keep it in step with changing times and circumstances. The long and protracted war in Angola appears to have ended. However, Angola still needs the continued support of the international community to deal with the reconstruction and the huge humanitarian crisis facing the country. Tanzania welcomes the decision on continued United Nations involvement. With regard to Western Sahara, Tanzania firmly believes that the United Nations cannot, and must not, retreat from this unfinished agenda. Tanzania wishes to reiterate its longstanding support for the efforts of the United Nations, which will enable the Sahrawi people to exercise their right to self-determination. While we appreciate the progress made in the reform of the working methods of the Security Council, we remain concerned that no movement has been recorded in the area of expansion of membership. Tanzania would like to reiterate its support for Africa's quest for two permanent seats. In his address to the Assembly on 4 October 1996, my President, Mr. Benjamin Mkapa, said: The founding of the United Nations was inspired by the human solidarity which the world sought to promote five decades ago... What holds our nations together, despite their diversity, is the common bond and solidarity we feel for each other as human beings. Today, more than ever before, we need that solidarity in order to deal with the myriad problems we all face together'. These words were relevant then, and they are still relevant today. ﻿Mongolia welcomes wholeheartedly the newest member of the United Nations family, Switzerland, a country that has a long-standing association with the United Nations as its second largest headquarters. We also look forward to welcoming East Timor, the youngest member of the international community. A little over two years ago, at the historic Millennium Summit held here in New York, our leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and pledged their unequivocal support for a more efficient and reinvigorated United Nations so that this unique world body can effectively address the formidable challenges of the new century and, indeed, of the new millennium. Some important steps have been taken to reform and adapt the United Nations to the evolving international realities, with a view to ensuring its efficient functioning in the era of globalization. However, the reform process, particularly that of the Security Council, tends to slow down and hence, there is an apparent need to take proper measures to speed it up. Mongolia stands for a just and equitable enlargement of the Security Council and for democratization of international relations by enhancing the openness and transparency of the work of the Security Council and by increasing the role of the General Assembly, as envisaged in the Charter of the United Nations. The United Nations has been instrumental in intensifying the efforts of the world community aimed at developing a collective response to global terror, at helping reach national reconciliation and build a peace 23 process in post-Taliban Afghanistan, at assisting in the emergence of an independent East Timor and at helping to bring about the entry into force of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. It has also been indispensable in paving the way towards reaching consensus at Doha, Monterrey, Rome and Johannesburg, which were important steps along the road towards meeting the millennium development goals. Yet, much still remains to be done to sustain the progress achieved, to honour commitments made and to redress setbacks to international peace and security in today's volatile environment. The tragic events of 11 September have shown that there is a need for a fundamental change in our perception of security. More weapons and allocating more resources to the military do not necessarily translate into increased security. Security can no longer be confined to the boundaries of a single State, or even a group of States. This indivisibility of global security makes multilateralism the order of the day. To paraphrase the Secretary- General, let us all recognize that today global security is our national security. Let us also recognize that ensuring the security of the human person must be at the heart of our concerns. The concept of human security is increasingly making a case for itself. The outgoing year has witnessed serious threats to international peace and security. The remnants of those threats continue to pose a menace to the international community. In Afghanistan, the United Nations is helping the Afghan Government in its efforts towards rehabilitation, reconstruction and development. Those objectives can only be achieved if the Government of President Karzai exercises effective control over the entire country. The prevailing explosive situation in the Middle East is of special concern. It calls for sustained efforts aimed at reaching a just and comprehensive solution to the problem. Mongolia supports the efforts of the Quartet and of the countries of the region to find ways to peacefully settle that long-festering conflict. The convening of an international conference to consider effective measures for such a solution will undoubtedly be a step in the right direction. My Government shares the view that the Security Council should make every effort to impress upon Iraq the need to comply with Council resolutions and, as a first step, accept weapons inspections unconditionally. The world community cannot afford to sit idle in the face of open defiance of mandatory resolutions of the Security Council. The world has not only been threatened by the escalation of tension in various regions, it has also been threatened by increasing human insecurity resulting from the failure of the international community to deliver on the crucial commitments it made during the 1990s. In his address to the General Assembly last year, my Prime Minister appealed to the international community to make the first decade of this new century a decade of implementation and cooperation towards a safer and better world, as we cannot afford to fail during yet another decade if we are serious about ensuring human security. We cannot afford to fail to implement the far-reaching, yet achievable, targets set by our leaders at the Millennium Summit. That is all the more so as our failure or inaction could be used as justification for deadly acts by those who threaten peace, stability and social progress. That appeal is even more relevant today. The 2002 Human Development Report indicates that if current trends continue, a significant portion of the world's States are unlikely to achieve the millennium development goals, including the overarching target of halving extreme poverty by 2015. If global progress continues at such a snail's pace, it will take more than 130 years to rid the world of hunger. A legitimate question arises, namely what has to be done by the international community to redress that situation? The short answer could be to display genuine solidarity and for all to share responsibility in honouring the commitments made without delay. But the people of our countries, in whose service this world body was conceived, have waited through dozens of conferences and their five-year reviews while the implementation of agreed targets continues to be stalled at levels far from those desired. Under these circumstances it is our considered view that it is incumbent upon the international community to closely look into the existing imbalance in global governance, especially in the economic and social areas. Mongolia believes that with its impartiality and universal legitimacy, as well as its Charter-based prevalence over any other international agreement, the United Nations is uniquely placed to provide for global 24 governance in economic and social areas while allowing equal participation by the South in the decision-making process. We therefore believe that it is high time to engage in an earnest dialogue about an entirely new framework of development cooperation that is more responsive to the emerging imperatives of global human security. As we see it, the new development partnership between the North and the South should be based on justice, not on charity; on equitable sharing of global market opportunities, not on protectionism or aid; and on mutual cooperation, not on unilateral conditionality or confrontation. The Economic and Social Council has an important role to play in initiating and promoting that dialogue, in line with the objectives set forth in Article 55 of the Charter. Furthermore, transnational organized crime, illicit drugs, money-laundering, the illegal arms trade, the spread of HIV/AIDS, global pollution, climate change and other negative phenomena pose a persistent threat to rich and poor nations alike. They call for a new cooperation framework to be developed to defend the new frontiers of global human security and to fill critical gaps in the existing system of global economic governance. At a time of increasing globalization, the formidable challenges facing the human family require an adequate response. It would be a fallacy to replace fundamental reform with a piecemeal approach or marginal remedies. If there is strong political will on the part of the international community to collectively stand up to these challenges, then why not engage in a common quest for an adequate architecture of global governance for human security? Mongolia expresses its firm support for the creation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). NEPAD is a comprehensive blueprint and a broad vision for Africa's future economic and social development. It is Africa-owned, and based on the lessons of the past decade. We hope that that important initiative will receive the generous support of the international community with a view to attaining the ambitious goal of an African renaissance. My own country, Mongolia, which has the inherent development handicap of being landlocked and is very susceptible to natural disasters, is not immune from many of the threats to human security to which I have referred. In addition to the persistence of poverty and unemployment and the disruption of basic health and social services, human security in Mongolia is affected by the increasing recurrence of natural disasters and the spread of environmental degradation, including desertification, water and air pollution. Efforts to improve human security are further hampered by extremely low population density, a weak infrastructure and a small, non-diversified economy that is very vulnerable to external shocks. Capitalizing on its valuable assets of well- educated human resources and accumulated experience of reform in both the political and economic areas, Mongolia is endeavouring to ensure the human security of its people through both national action and international cooperation. Nationally, my Government launched, in late 2000, the Good Governance for Human Security programme, aimed at improving the capacity to formulate and implement policies to ensure human security. Thus far, we have succeeded in securing a national commitment to its implementation on the part of all the branches of the State; institutionalizing the programme's implementation mechanism; and laying the groundwork for the greater involvement and participation of civil society, the private sector and academia. At the international level, Mongolia, for its part, has been endeavouring to contribute, where it can, to the common efforts of the world community, while drawing attention to issues of particular concern to it. As a landlocked developing country, Mongolia attaches particular importance to enhancing international cooperation to ease the inherent development challenges faced by that group of countries. In this regard, my delegation looks forward to the forthcoming International Ministerial Meeting on transit transport cooperation, to be held in 2003 in Kazakhstan. In recognition of the crucial role of education in ensuring sustainable human development and human security, my delegation is pleased to note that at its last session the General Assembly proclaimed — as the result of an initiative of Mongolia — the 10-year period starting 1 January 2003 as the United Nations Literacy Decade. We look forward to the unanimous adoption of the Decade's draft plan of action at this session of the General Assembly. 25 Ten years ago Mongolia declared itself a nuclear- weapon-free zone. Since then, it has adopted national legislation defining and regulating that status. At present, consultations are under way with our immediate neighbours and other States concerned on ways to institutionalize our status internationally. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the five nuclear-weapon States for their cooperation, and United Nations bodies for their invaluable support in translating the initiative into reality. In recent years, Mongolia has been actively engaged in establishing and strengthening institutions and processes of democratic governance, protecting human rights and promoting democratic consolidation. Its efforts have been similar to those of many other States that are promoting democratic values and developing democratic institutions. We believe that the Fifth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies, to be held from 18 to 20 June 2003 in Mongolia, could provide an important opportunity for the international community to exchange information and experience and search for practical ways of promoting and strengthening democracy nationally and internationally. I would like to take this opportunity to express my Government's heartfelt gratitude to this body for graciously accepting our offer and setting in motion the preparations for the Conference. The main theme of the Conference is democracy, good governance and civil society. Mongolia believes that the International Criminal Court, established on 1 July, could be instrumental in ending impunity and upholding justice, deterring future crimes and further strengthening international criminal law. As one of its founding members, Mongolia also believes that the widest possible accession to the Court will broaden the geographic scope of the Court's jurisdiction and thus end impunity for acts of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. The Court's jurisdiction should eventually cover the crime of aggression. In conclusion, may I reiterate my Government's resolve to work with other Member States towards making our world Organization better equipped to meet the global challenges lying ahead.   ﻿Allow me to extend my best wishes to Mr. Kavan on the occasion of his election to the office of President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, as well as to congratulate his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for presiding with competence over the proceedings of the last session. At the same time, I take this opportunity to congratulate the Swiss Confederation and East Timor on their new membership in the United Nations. I would also like to greet the return of the United States of America to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, which we consider an important event that will contribute positively to the future activity of that Organization. During this year, Albania witnessed many positive developments in the political, institutional and socio-economic areas. The new climate of dialogue that has recently prevailed in Albanian politics is encouraging the reforms aimed at accelerating the country's integration into Euro-Atlantic structures. The political and social stability of the country is being consolidated, thus creating the conditions for positive developments in all fields. The continuous improvements in democratic standards that characterize Albanian society today are a result of the reforms undertaken to strengthen the rule of law and the building of new democratic institutions. In the process of implementing the commitments of the Millennium Summit Declaration, the Albanian Government is taking the necessary measures to integrate the Millennium Development Goals into its national development goals. The national strategy for economic and social development, drafted recently by the Albanian Government, with the support of the World Bank, has appropriately accommodated development indicators from various fields to the Millennium Development Goals. We have the political will to continue on the long and difficult road of implementing these objectives. We consider this to be an indispensable process for the country's sustainable development. Albania has already presented its report on the implementation status of the Millennium Development Goals. For these stated purposes, the Albanian Government is undertaking an extensive campaign targeting the State administration, civil society and the whole of Albanian public opinion, with the purpose of making them aware of their role in implementing these objectives. We highly appreciate the cooperation and support of the Secretariat, the Department of Economic and Social Affairs and the other specialized agencies of the United Nations in implementing these objectives. The Albanian Government has recently undertaken comprehensive action against the phenomena of illegal trafficking, smuggling, corruption and abuse of power. Being at the crossroads between East and West, Albanian territory has been an attractive venue for local and international criminal activities and has been exploited as a bridge for the trafficking of human beings, drugs, arms and goods. The crises and conflicts that our region has been forced to experience have contributed to that desirability. To combat this, the Albanian Government has made concrete commitments to end human and all other forms of trafficking coming from, and going through, its territory by severely punishing perpetrators to the full extent of the law, as well as by eliminating the causes that create the conditions for such phenomena to take place. The political stability of the country has also witnessed very positive developments. The recent presidential election, which has been conducted for the first time with the broad consensus of all parliamentary parties, is further contributing to that stability. The overall reforms we are undertaking have had as their point of reference the standards of the most developed Western countries. The ultimate aim is the integration of Albania into the Euro-Atlantic structures. Joining the European Union has been a permanent major objective of my country. The expected commencement this fall of negotiations on the Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union will be the best form of encouragement for the comprehensive reforms being carried out in Albania. The whole Albanian political spectrum, including the Government and the opposition, is committed to the achievement of this target. Albania pays special attention to the Atlantic dimension of that integration. Our aspiration for full membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is in line with NATO's strategic interest in strengthening peace and stability in South-Eastern Europe. We believe that the wider the geographic spread of this organization, the more secure international peace and stability will be. We hope that the ongoing fruitful partnership between Albania and NATO will be recognized and encouraged at the Prague summit. 8 During the last few years, the region of South- Eastern Europe has experienced a new era of positive changes. The new liberal mentality is significantly taking hold in the consciences of the citizens of our societies. We are confident that this part of Europe will soon become part of the European common future. But, unfortunately, the traces of extreme nationalism and xenophobia that continue to exist remind us that we have a long way to go before we are able to escape the past and establish genuine democracy in our region. Albania is strongly convinced of the need to strengthen regional cooperation on the basis of the principles of friendly and good-neighbourly relations, respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity and the protection of human rights and liberties. Albania has made a valuable and internationally recognized contribution towards the strengthening of peace and stability in the region. Strongly convinced that Albania's internal stability is essential to the stability of other neighbourly countries in the region, and after having completed our tasks at home, we have sought to promote throughout the region the philosophy of co-existence and tolerance, instead of that of hatred and inter-ethnic and religious differences. With its vision towards the future, Albania has made serious efforts towards the regional integration of the countries of South-Eastern Europe on the basis of the European Union model. We believe that this model of reconciliation and cooperation, which was designed and implemented after the Second World War, is the model that the Balkans should embrace and implement with courage while leaving their bloody inter-ethnic conflicts behind. In that context of cooperation and integration, the free movement of people, goods and capital throughout our region should become a tangible reality for our countries and their citizens. We have to be aware that what we have in common today, and what we will have in common in the future, is more important than the bitter heritage of past differences. This is the philosophy of building on common values for a common future. As stated two days ago in Kosovo by the External Relations Commissioner of the European Union, Chris Patten, Kosovo has undergone important changes that could not have been imagined three years ago. The building of self-governing democratic institutions in Kosovo was a tremendous achievement by the people of Kosovo and the international organizations led by the United Nations. The normal functioning of those institutions, with the participation and representation of all its citizens, will create the necessary conditions for the further normalization of political, economic and social life in Kosovo. It is our conviction that the local election to be held this October will be conducted in full compliance with international standards and will contribute further to the consolidation of institutions and the democratization and Europianization of Kosovo. The Albanian Government hails the cooperation between the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo and Kosovo's elected institutions. We are convinced that those relations will be further strengthened in the future to the benefit of all the citizens of Kosovo. Albania supports Security Council resolution 1244 (1999), as well as the efforts and commitment of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in Kosovo, Mr. Michael Steiner. Albania views relations with Kosovo in the broader perspective of regional stability, cooperation and integration. Albania encourages and supports a stable and sustainable Kosovo as a constructive and complementary element of the region's stability and integration. This means that Kosovo should be open in its relations, not only with Albania but also with Serbia and all other countries of the region. Albania sees the future of Kosovo from the perspective of regional and European integration processes. This future requires democratic standards, such as the consolidation of democratic institutions, the strengthening of the rule of law, the return of Serbs and the normal functioning of a multi-ethnic society there. The future status of Kosovo must simultaneously satisfy a number of elements and principles, such as the right of all its citizens to express themselves on these and other matters regardless of their ethnic background; the will of the international community; and the need to guarantee the stability of Kosovo and the region itself. The status of Kosovo depends on its stability. In accordance with its long-term vision of regional cooperation and European integration, Albania has committed itself to promoting further its relations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The recent upgrading of those diplomatic relations to the ambassadorial level and Albania's initiation of a 9 number of bilateral agreements are concrete examples of that commitment. We welcome the recent democratic elections in the Presheva valley, and we strongly believe that those elections will contribute to the strengthening of stability in that region. The integration of Albanians into all levels of the central and local administrations and the protection and respect of their rights will no doubt bring positive developments to that area, to Serbia and to the region at large. The Albanian Government is interested in developing cooperative and good-neighbourly relations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We welcome the democratic elections held recently in that country. We look forward to the early creation of a stable, long-term government, having as its major objective the full implementation of the Ohrid Agreement, the essential condition for the maintenance of peace, stability and democracy and for the continuation of the reforms in our neighbouring republic. The European integration processes have increased the awareness of Albania and that of the other South-eastern European countries of the role and importance of regional organizations and initiatives. They are efficient instruments that bring countries together, not only in the form of political cooperation, but also by intertwining their interests in many fields, such as trade, transport, culture and education. Fighting organized crime is another dimension of such cooperation. In March, Albania successfully concluded its chairmanship of the South-East European Cooperation Process, while in April it assumed the presidency of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. We are confident that, during the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of member States of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation process, to be held in Tirana in October, the participating countries will reaffirm their readiness to strengthen their political and economic cooperation and to translate it into programmes and projects. One year after the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, our hearts still feel the pain of the loss of innocent lives. The endangering of peace, freedom and democratic values — a challenge that faces all United Nations member countries — calls for the creation of a unified front. Terrorism has become a common enemy from which none of us is immune. Nevertheless, our determination to fight that enemy is resolute, and it gives us an opportunity to build a more secure and more peaceful world. Albania was among the first countries to align themselves with the international coalition against terrorism. This year, in compliance with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), Albania has taken legislative, executive and administrative actions to fight against that phenomenon. At present, Albania has a complete legal framework that provides for the control, investigation and punishment of potential terrorist acts and of persons who are linked to or support such acts. Albania has become a party to the 12 United Nations Conventions related to the fight against terrorism. The Albanian Government has also taken action to set up and strengthen specific State structures to prevent and fight against terrorism. Those structures are also responsible for and capable of offering full cooperation on an international level. Albania has praised and supported the activity of the United Nations peacekeeping Mission in Afghanistan and is currently contributing troops to that Mission. We have followed with deep concern the developments in the Middle East and the threat that Saddam Hussein's regime poses to security, peace and global solidarity against State-backed terrorism. The Albanian Government reaffirms its position, which demands Iraq's full compliance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. Any hesitation or indecisiveness with regard to implementing United Nations decisions and resolutions concerning Iraq would be a challenge to the international community and could have grave consequences for peace and global security. We are convinced that, as President Bush said a few days ago in this Hall, we cannot stand by and do nothing while dangers gather. We must stand up for our security and for the permanent rights and hopes of mankind. Together with the entire international community, the Albanian Government is following with concern the escalation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Our position is that a solution to that conflict can be found that will bring about a sustainable and lasting peace. Albania welcomes the steps taken by the international community to bring peace and stability to the Middle East and expresses its confidence that both parties to 10 the conflict will join the international community in its efforts to find a permanent solution. Our region faces many challenges that its countries must confront together. The United Nations has an important role to play in uniting the efforts of individual Members to create the necessary synergies to deal with those challenges. Armed conflicts, terrorism and international organized crime, poverty, the violation of human rights, contagious diseases, natural calamities and environmental pollution are problems that require not only the commitment of all our countries, but also coordinated and efficient joint action by the United Nations based on the principles of the Charter. The United Nations must strengthen its role in preventing and resolving conflicts as well as in ensuring peace and stability. In that respect, its cooperation with regional security organizations should continue, based on the best examples of the past. In promoting peace and development, the United Nations should use more efficiently the available financial resources, aiming at their better management but also at tailoring its projects and programmes to the specific needs of beneficiary countries. The Albanian Government welcomes and supports the efforts of the Secretary-General to reform the Organization and hence to enhance its efficiency. I should like to take this opportunity to thank the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, the United Nations Development Programme and the other specialized agencies of the Organization for their efforts to assist the Albanian Government in implementing its development programmes and projects. I would like to emphasize that this is a special year for the United Nations. Many important events have taken place in connection with such issues as the rights of children, the ageing of populations, nutrition, the fight against poverty and environmental protection. Albania has contributed to those events. On this occasion, on behalf of the Albanian Government, I would like to pay tribute to the outcomes and initiatives of the Summit on Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg a few days ago. We are convinced that the commitments undertaken by our countries in connection with those initiatives will soon be embodied in joint efforts aimed at creating a better world for everyone. ﻿I would like to join in thanking the outgoing President of the General Assembly for the diligent manner in which he managed the affairs of the Assembly. I would also like to congratulate you, Mr. President, for taking over the leadership of the Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. We hope that you will have a successful tenure in your stewardship of this important body. Allow us to also welcome Switzerland and East Timor to membership of the United Nations. Two years ago, the world's political leaders met at this place and, through the historic United Nations Millennium Declaration, reaffirmed our faith in the United Nations Organization and its Charter as indispensable foundations of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. That an unprecedented number of heads of State and Government had gathered at the United Nations to make that commitment to cooperation among the peoples of the world — to peace, prosperity and justice throughout our universe — gave hope to the billions throughout the world who know the painful meaning of oppression by 10 another, of war and violent conflict, of poverty and injustice. None of those who spoke from this podium knew that a year after they had pledged to use their energies and talents to provide a meaningful life for all, peace in this country and the rest of the world would be brutally challenged by the murderous terrorist attack of 11 September. We meet a day after the anniversary of that fateful 11 September. We have a collective duty to reaffirm our united resolve to create a world free of the fear of terrorism. We have a common task to ensure that this Organization truly lives up to its obligations to do all the things that make for peace. We have a solemn obligation to give real meaning to the message of hope we proclaimed in the Millennium Declaration. It may be that future generations will say that if we have learned anything at all from the horrendous events of 11 September, it is that the General Assembly should dedicate its efforts to the accomplishment of these tasks. In keeping with that perspective, we have come to the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly to report that the peoples of Africa have risen to those challenges by forming the African Union. Our Union is based on the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. It results from the transformation of the Organization of African Unity, which championed the cause of the unity and independence of Africa for nearly 40 years. The African Union is Africa's practical and determined response to its past and present, in favour of peace and stability, democracy and human rights, cooperation, development, prosperity and human dignity. Its programme for the socio-economic revitalization of our continent is the New Partnership for Africa's Development, which must help us to eradicate poverty and underdevelopment throughout Africa and, within the context of the African Union, end Africa's humiliation as an object of charity. Clearly, the objectives of the African Union and the programme enunciated in the New Partnership essentially, and of necessity, seek to advance the aims contained in the Millennium Development Goals. Naturally, the United Nations — as an Organization seized of the task to address the critical issues of peace, human rights and poverty eradication within the framework of sustainable development — will forever be central to the success of the African Union and the accomplishment of the goals of the New Partnership for Africa's Development. Accordingly, on behalf of the united peoples of Africa, we are honoured and privileged to commend to this Organization both the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa's Development. We are convinced that with the support of the United Nations, we will transform this into an African century. We are happy that there are encouraging peace processes in Angola, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Sudan, with the Comoros already having held successful elections. We are particularly pleased because these positive developments will create the possibility for millions of our fellow Africans to reaffirm the sanctity of human life and security and to engage in the important tasks of rebuilding their countries to bring about a better life for all. As part of our commitment to wage a sustained struggle to realize the long-deferred hopes of the peoples of Africa, we have agreed to the establishment of various institutions, including a peer-review mechanism, which must help us ensure that we honour our commitments to democracy, human rights and good governance. I am confident that the United Nations will work closely with the African Union and that this premier Organization of the peoples of the world will use its vast and invaluable experience to ensure that the African Union delivers on the important and pressing duty of achieving sustainable development in each and every country on our continent. Together, the agencies of the United Nations and the organs of the African Union must give priority to such matters as human resources development and capacity-building, modernizing Africa's economy, dealing decisively with the intolerable debt burden, ensuring access of our products to the markets of the developed world, spreading the emancipation and empowerment of women, combating communicable and other diseases — including AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis — and fighting against environmental degradation. At the end of August and the beginning of this month, the people of South Africa and Africa were honoured to host the World Summit for Sustainable Development. A number of far-reaching decisions were taken at that important Summit to ensure that we will bequeath to the next generations a better, humane and equitable world based on what we agree are the 11 inseparable pillars of sustainable development: economic development, social development and environmental protection. Delegates from around the world enshrined the decisions they took in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development to ensure that the billions of people who have placed their fate on our collective shoulders have a concrete programme of action to realize the goals contained in Agenda 21 and other documents adopted by the world community of nations during the last 10 years. The Johannesburg Summit confronted the stark reality that billions of people across the world are poor, and it boldly confirmed the need for us to collaborate for a shared human prosperity through sustainable development. We agree that this goal can be achieved because we are inspired by the knowledge that the resources needed exist within the global community. Indeed, Member States have already committed themselves to make available the means necessary for the implementation of our plans, especially finance, technology and capacity-building. It is critically important that we implement everything we agreed, acting with the necessary sense of urgency. Again, this we will do together, under the leadership of the United Nations, while we continue to strengthen the multilateral system of global governance as the only viable international response to all our challenges. Fundamentally, this is the only credible response to the challenge of globalization and the need to enhance human solidarity to meet our common needs. It has been our privilege to chair the Non-Aligned Movement for the past four years. During that time, the Movement has ensured constant dialogue between the countries of the North and South, which has advanced the commonality of interest between States, confirming the view that the future of all humanity is interlinked. We are pleased that the views of the Movement have helped to inform the advance towards a better life for all, to which we have all committed ourselves by word and deed. In February next year, Malaysia will assume the responsibility of guiding our Movement as it responds to the changed and changing global environment. I am certain that this will add new strength to the Non- Aligned Movement in the interests of all humanity, especially the poor of the world. As before, the Non- Aligned Movement is committed to the peaceful resolution of all conflicts, including those pertaining to Palestine and Israel, as well as Iraq, in keeping with the resolutions of the United Nations. These are urgent tasks to which the Organization must respond. In conclusion, let me recall that two years ago in the Millennium Declaration more than 150 heads of State or Government resolved that “we believe that the central challenge we face today is to ensure that globalization becomes a positive force for all the world's people” (resolution 55/2, para. 5). Through both our global and our regional programmes we can and must ensure that globalization indeed becomes a valuable process which will bring about sustainable development and prosperity for all. From this fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly must surely issue the unequivocal message that the peoples of the world are united in their resolve to sustain the message of hope by advancing the goals of peace, of democracy, of prosperity and of sustainable development. ﻿Allow me first to salute fellow leaders, whose tireless work and 26 timeless commitment within and beyond the halls of the United Nations help shape a more secure world for our peoples. Improving the human condition is a charge to which we must remain resolutely committed. This we can achieve only through meaningful partnership. Last year's efforts and the promise of community-building should not be excluded from this year's agenda. To build community partnership is crucial; but, more importantly, we need equity. To fulfil expectations of a better world, and to extract the lauded benefits of globalization, much harder work is required to reduce the gap between rich and poor nations and the haves and have-nots in our societies. How can we explain the excruciating truths of a global marketplace where countries which are technologically deficient and heavily dependent on agriculture for their survival are encouraged, and even coerced, into opening their economies and embracing free trade, while larger and richer economies systematically subsidize their domestic agricultural output, mostly for political reasons, at a rate of between 22 to 60 percent annually. Mr. President, your mandate this year — a very critical one — will be to ensure that the peoples of the world who suffer as a result of this inequity can truly renew their faith in us and believe again in the values of the United Nations. My delegation has said repeatedly that globalization is not a bad thing. However, it continues to be managed badly. We insist that the current structure of the global economy is inherently flawed. It serves to reward the powerful and to punish the weak. While we appreciate that our world is undergoing profound and necessary changes, we cannot countenance abandoning the principles and values that bind us within the human family and the family of nations. Globalization, in our view, must include true universal equity in its application of shared responsibility and good governance. The selective processes by which the agendas of the powerful few are advanced to the exclusion of the small, poor and economically vulnerable States must be addressed with a willingness to correct it. My delegation believes that the United Nations is uniquely positioned to respond to this challenge. Hence, my Government questions attempts to transform certain United Nations organs such as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) into advisory bodies, and away from development assistance, which poor developing countries need now more than ever. The United Nations must evolve as a dynamic, receptive and representative body to stem the tides that threaten us. It must build or strengthen social safety nets in many developing nations, not oversee processes geared at dismantling them. We must recommit to improving lives and to re-energizing our fight against poverty, hunger and ignorance. The United Nations has a significant role to play in this endeavour. Improved coordination of United Nations agencies is critical in achieving these objectives. My delegation urges Member States to pledge their support, and hopes that they will, to ensure that the three conferences sponsored by the United Nations this year — the International Conference on Financing for Development, the special session on children and the World Summit on Sustainable Development — bear fruit. We remain hopeful that continued dialogue, partnership and the instrumentality of the United Nations will enable us to make meaningful progress. A year has passed since the barbaric acts of 11 September. The foundations of our world views have changed dramatically, as has the way we look at ourselves and at our commitment to personal, national and international security. Again, Saint Kitts and Nevis unreservedly denounces any act of terrorism, anywhere in the world. We do not believe that the indiscriminate killing of innocent people as an expression of despair or oppression is an acceptable means of redress. We value highly the sanctity of life, and my Government is committed to its protection. We will work together in the United Nations to find international solutions to address this outrage. Let us ensure that the continuing war against terrorism is waged within the structures of international institutions such as the United Nations. Year after year, we call on the international community to join our noble campaign to halt the trans-shipment of nuclear wastes through our Caribbean region, but this call goes unheeded. I reiterate our appeal today. Saint Kitts and Nevis urges sustained follow-up action to give meaning and life to the United Nations resolution adopted in 2000 declaring the Caribbean Sea a special area in the context of sustainable development. 27 Representation is crucial to the peoples of the world, and, as my delegation has done in the past, I wish to re-emphasize the status of the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan. Membership in this Organization is in itself a validation and celebration of a people's fundamental human rights. We therefore lament the continued stalemate that results in the exclusion of the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan from the United Nations family. The contribution of the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan to the global market, to the international community in the areas of technology, technical assistance and development assistance is unmistakably significant. Its participation in international activities can rival, and in many instances surpasses, that of many developed countries who are full Members of the United Nations. It is unfortunate and most regrettable, therefore, that the United Nations has been unable to create a meaningful and practical formula that would allow the Chinese people on both sides of the Taiwan Straits to resolve this impasse, which stymies the genuine hopes and desires of millions of people who adhere to the principles of the United Nations Charter and whose nation is a model international citizen. We have witnessed how involvement by the international community can facilitate positive developments, such as the emergence of nationhood. On behalf of my Government and in my own name, I welcome East Timor to the United Nations family. I salute it and its great leaders and pledge my Government's support in working with it in the years ahead on issues of mutual interest and, of course, of interest to the international fraternity of nations. I also extend a hand of welcome and friendship to the Government and the people of Switzerland. It has observed the United Nations for many years, so it is no stranger to its proceedings. The Organization will benefit greatly from its participation, and Saint Kitts and Nevis looks forward to collaborating with it in the future. The incidence of HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean region is a real and growing threat to our security at a number of levels. In human terms, it threatens to devastate families and to create a generation of orphans. At the economic level, it places a tremendous burden on the health resources of our countries and has already begun to undermine the economic infrastructure of our countries. The most productive and able-bodied are at risk, and those infected with the disease are less and less able to contribute to the economic activity and growth of their countries. Instead, they require medical and financial support. Resources earmarked for other areas have to be redeployed to address the new pandemic. It is clear that pharmaceutical companies and Governments that support them can do much more to reduce the cost of antiretroviral drugs. Private-sector companies must also do more to assist employees and families suffering from HIV/AIDS. It is regrettable that the $10 billion in resources required by the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria are yet to be realized. Saint Kitts and Nevis repeats its call for new paradigms to redress the inequities of globalization. We urge the international community to develop appropriate frameworks to promote fundamental freedoms as a comprehensive whole, not only in terms of political rights, such as the right to self-expression and the right to vote, but also the human right to economic development. Only when we respond to the genuine needs of humankind — only when the hungry are fed, the vulnerable made strong, the weak, dispossessed, disenfranchised and oppressed empowered and made to feel a sense of belonging, and when they are free to participate fully in issues relating to their future — can we have a world where anarchy, terrorism, inter-State conflicts and war recede. What we ask for is certainly attainable. We simply call on the United Nations to facilitate systems where partnership, collective responsibility and respect for each other are allowed to flourish. This is possible once States realize that national policies in a global economy have international consequences. Politics may still be local, but when we take action locally we must remember that we are also global citizens. Thus, a principal goal of globalization should be to level the playing field to provide equal opportunity. Strategies, as a consequence, should reflect confidence-building measures for free trade and sustainable development. In conclusion, let me say that the United Nations has stood firm for peace, prosperity and security for all peoples. It has done much to ensure peace and justice throughout the world, consistent with the principles of international law. It has set itself lofty goals for this millennium: basic education for all, eradicating poverty, reducing HIV/AIDS, and ensuring sustainable 28 development for all. Our people and, indeed, all citizens of the global community pray that the political will will be found to translate those lofty goals into reality on the ground. Positive action, rather than eloquent speech, must become the defining quality of the United Nations in the third millennium. ﻿The Commonwealth of Dominica joins other delegations in congratulating you on your election to chair the proceedings of the fifty- seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly. We are confident that you will preside over this Assembly with the efficiency and dedication required to take us through the agenda of the fifty- seventh session. We also take this opportunity to extend to your predecessor our sincere appreciation for the excellent manner in which he steered the work of the fifty-sixth session of this General Assembly. One year ago we convened in a city reeling from a terrible tragedy which spurred the international community to unite in the fight against international terrorism. The world's response to the events of 11 September 2001 was one of total condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and a firm undertaking to uphold the principles of freedom and democracy enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The United Nations Security Council was swift and decisive in its adoption of a resolution focused on suppressing the financing of terrorism and denying terrorists any safe haven in which to operate. Sadly, terrorism remains today one of the greatest threats to human security. The Commonwealth of Dominica therefore once again reaffirms its commitment to the fight against international terrorism and to ensuring that the channels for funding of terrorist-related activities and international crime are permanently disabled. My Government is making every effort towards the successful implementation of United Nations Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) in spite of limited human and financial resources. Legislative measures which have been put in place include an Exchange of Information Act, which addresses some of the concerns of the international community as expressed in resolution 1373 (2001). This Act was passed in the Dominica Parliament in January 2002, while a bill for the suppression of financing of terrorism will be tabled before Parliament shortly. My delegation wishes to take this opportunity to express its appreciation for the initiatives taken by the Counter-Terrorism Committee, the Commonwealth, the European Union and other countries and organizations to assist developing countries in their implementation of resolution 1373 (2001). The historic entry into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) takes us one step further in the fight against impunity of war crimes and crimes against humanity. The Commonwealth of Dominica's accession to the Statute of the ICC in January 2001 is indicative of our support for the establishment of a permanent international court that will bring the perpetrators of the most serious international crimes to justice. In this regard, the ICC must seek to prevent or penalize terrorist-related crimes which may be localized in action, but may have severe global consequences. The international situation, notably developments in the world economy, has not been favourable to the growth prospects of small States such as the Commonwealth of Dominica, which remains a small, open and largely agriculture-based economy, extremely vulnerable to external economic shocks. While the events of 11 September 2001 are behind us, the irreparable damage to the economies of small Caribbean countries is still evident. Hardest hit was the tourism sector, one of the areas with the greatest potential to contribute to Dominica's social and economic development. 32 The growth of our offshore financial sector, another potential contributor to our economic diversification, has been adversely affected by our country's inclusion in the list of non-cooperative countries and territories put out by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)'s Financial Action Task Force. All attempts thus far to have our country removed from that list have proved futile, in spite of the implementation of the measures necessary to ensure best industry practices in the financial services sector. The Commonwealth of Dominica nevertheless commits itself to the global combat against money- laundering and stands ready to cooperate with the international community in its anti-money-laundering initiative. A number of new laws have been enacted by Parliament to legislate its anti-money-laundering policies. The Commonwealth of Dominica has also established a Financial Intelligence Unit and a Money- Laundering Supervisory Authority to ensure that our financial-services sector remains free from money- laundering. As I address you, my country is facing one of the most challenging periods in its history. The slowdown in the global economy, the impact of the events of 11 September 2001 on an already deteriorating fiscal situation, the continued difficulties of integrating into the multilateral trading system in a globalized world and the rapid decline in overseas development assistance have undoubtedly affected our economic performance in an appallingly negative way. We have been left with no other option but to pursue a stabilization and adjustment programme, which, although approved by the International Monetary Fund, has not succeeded in keeping detractors, including the public service union, off the streets. The success of this programme should lay the basis for sustained higher growth output and employment, as well as poverty reduction. We recognize, however, the attendant costs of implementing this programme. The Dominican people have been asked to make temporary, but heavy sacrifices in order to place our country on the road to recovery. We wish to recognize, in this forum, the support given in these difficult times to the Commonwealth of Dominica at the Caribbean regional level, and look forward to the timely support of the international community. Last year, as the world turned its attention to the events of 11 September, the Secretary-General reminded us that none of the issues that faced us on 10 September had become less urgent. Indeed, the United Nations calendar for the past year has been crowded with special conferences and summits, all convened to address problems and issues of global concern that affect the everyday lives of the peoples of the United Nations. While it is true that those issues are current and of interest to the smaller members of this body it is unfortunate that many of us do not have the capacity or wherewithal to ensure that they receive effective representation, not only at the conferences but, more significantly, in the preparatory committees that precede the conferences. It is no accident, therefore, that most often the States that least benefit are the smallest and least influential. The Second World Assembly on Ageing and the special session on children attempted to deal with issues which affect the most vulnerable members of our societies. The World Assembly concluded in April with a Plan of Action for implementation by the international community. In small countries like the Commonwealth of Dominica, this implementation must, of necessity, include the recognition of older persons as the pillars of our societies — people who make a significant contribution to our economic development. My Government has developed a national policy on ageing which seeks to ensure that older persons are provided with protective care and given an opportunity to continue to participate in the development of our nation. A few weeks ago, we were privileged to host the tenth annual regional meeting of HelpAge International — a happy coincidence, given that among our population of 75,000, we have 22 centenarians. I want to make specific mention of the world's oldest living person — a Dominican woman, Mrs. Elizabeth Israel, affectionately known as Ma Pampo — who is allegedly 127. Civil society organizations like HelpAge must be recognized for their vigorous attempts to deal with issues affecting older persons. As a family of nations, we established set goals, strategies and actions in pursuit of a better life for children at the special session of the General Assembly on children. As a 33 signatory to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Commonwealth of Dominica remains committed to ensuring that children's rights are protected and respected. Children are one of our most valuable resources. The Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development was convened in March this year, and was hailed as a “turning point in the approach to development cooperation” by the international community. It was widely acknowledged at Monterrey that, in order for development assistance to be effective, both the donors and the recipients had to share the same goals of sustainable development and the alleviation and eventual eradication of poverty. We applaud the commitment expressed by the major donor Governments to the Monterrey Consensus. What we desire, however, is an equitable distribution of the increased official development assistance funds pledged by the heads of State or Government of the European Union in March 2002. The same can be said of the “new compact for global development” proposed by President George W. Bush on 14 March 2002, by which the United States pledged to increase its core assistance to developing countries by 50 per cent over the next three years. We are still confident that global conferences can work, because it has been proved that they serve as forums where new proposals can be debated and consensus sought on topical issues. At the recently concluded Johannesburg Summit, world Governments agreed to halve by 2015 the number of people lacking clean water and basic sanitation. My Government was particularly pleased that at the conclusion of the Johannesburg Summit the richer countries stated their willingness to reach an agreement, by January 2005, within the World Trade Organization, for “substantial improvements in market access” for food exports from developing countries. The Johannesburg Summit underlined the necessary linkage between environmental protection and natural resources management and the issues of poverty, underdevelopment and social justice. The Summit demonstrated the interdependence of social, environmental and economic factors, which must work in unison if long-term sustainable development is to be achieved. Empirical evidence exists to show that poor and weak national economies impact negatively on the environment, while environmental degradation and the over-utilization of natural resources result in declining economies and impoverished communities. The Government of Dominica remains fully committed to Agenda 21 and the Barbados Programme of Action for Small Island Developing States. We reiterate our unwavering support for the Johannesburg Plan of Action and urge all Member States to make good on their commitments for the successful implementation of all sustainable development conventions. The increase in levels of official development assistance, to which I alluded earlier, is essential when viewed in the context of the implementation of development strategies by small island developing States. It is recognized that the small, open economies of these small States require effective means, including financial resources, to counteract the negative effects of globalization and trade liberalization and to foster sustainable development. The Commonwealth of Dominica is acutely aware of the magnitude of the challenges facing our pursuit of sustainable development. Ours is a country with a history of consistently seeking a national development path guided by sustainable development. An integrated development plan, undertaken with the participation of a diversity of stakeholders and sectors, will shortly be completed and will provide us with a framework within which we can address physical, economic and social vulnerabilities in an integrated manner. At this time, my Government wishes to place on record its appreciation of the continued commitment of the Republic of China on Taiwan to the social, economic and infrastructural development of small, vulnerable economies very much like its own. As the fourteenth largest economy in the world, the Republic of China on Taiwan has demonstrated the benefits of having a global perspective on development. We welcomed the decision of the World Trade Organization, in November 2001, to admit the Republic of China on Taiwan as a full member of that organization. We look forward to a similar occasion when the Republic of China on Taiwan will take its place in these halls as a full member of the United Nations family. The Commonwealth of Dominica joins other delegations in congratulating the African nations for two important developments. First, the transformation of the Organization of African Unity into the African 34 Union, which we are confident will be a strong institution committed to the promotion of peace and stability, democracy and human rights, cooperation, development, prosperity and human dignity. Second, we have the programme for socio-economic revitalization of the African continent, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). The United Nations has a central role to play in ensuring the success of this bold initiative of the African States to eradicate poverty and underdevelopment. These two development provide great examples that our Caribbean region can emulate. In conclusion, I wish to reiterate the resolve of the Millennium Declaration that “the central challenge we face today is to ensure that globalization becomes a positive force for all the world's people.” (A/54/2000, para. 5) We must ensure, through the global and regional programmes, that globalization truly contributes to sustainable development and prosperity for all. We wish the 57th General Assembly every success in advancing the goals of peace, democracy, prosperity and sustainable development.  ﻿Mr. President, on behalf of the delegation of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, I would like to congratulate you on your election to the Presidency of the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly. We are confident that your experience and wisdom, already well-proven, will ensure the success of this session. I would also like to thank your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his able guidance of the work of the last session. Also, I would like to congratulate the Swiss Confederation and the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste on their admission to membership in the United Nations. I would also like to congratulate most warmly our United Nations Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, and the United Nations staff for their excellent work in promoting the noble goals of this Organization. We note with satisfaction the significant activities and the commendable international conferences held this past year, primarily the United Nations Conference on HIV/AIDS in New York, the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development and the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. Such international conferences have placed the world before its collective responsibilities in dealing with core issues that require global solutions. What is at stake is the equilibrium and future of the world. This session is being held one year after the criminal attacks against New York and Washington. I would like to confirm once again that Mauritania totally condemns those terrorist acts. We condemn terrorism in all its forms. Mauritania will be actively involved in regional and international initiatives to combat that pernicious phenomenon. We reconfirm our full support for the relevant Security Council resolutions and are resolved to implement them, specifically resolution 1373 (2001) of 28 September 2001. The tragic events highlighted a new reality. Terrorism, instead of being a marginal phenomenon, has become a core issue ignoring borders and which can only be combated through a global strategy. Nobody should believe that fighting terrorism is a clash between two civilizations or cultures. Rather, we must act together to show that the elimination of terrorism is a new step taken by the human race towards further developing its comprehensive, all-inclusive civilization and attaining its aspirations for a safe and better future. In order to achieve peace and security, the United Nations must play an ever-larger part to strengthen international law. We noted the sustained efforts and the repeated calls for peace in the Middle East. We believe the Arab countries' initiative adopted at the Beirut Summit offers the ideal framework for comprehensive and lasting peace that will ensure progress and prosperity for all peoples in the region. We noted with great interest the vision of the President of the United States of America, Mr. George Bush, who spoke of the need for the coexistence of two independent States, Palestine and Israel, and efforts by the Quartet and the European Union with a view to the establishment of an independent Palestinian State with Al-Quds al-Sharif as its capital. This play is pursuant to the terms of reference of Madrid and the land-for- peace principle and is also in accordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978. We reiterate the need for an immediate Israeli withdrawal from all territories of the Palestinian Authority, an end to the suffering of the Palestinian people and the immediate resumption of peace negotiations. This is the only way to have peace and security in the Middle East. We hope to see a return to peace, stability and harmony in the Gulf region. We oppose the use of force against Iraq and affirm our support for a peaceful 25 solution to settle the crisis in accordance with international law. We are concerned that there should be respect for the independence and territorial integrity of Kuwait, and respect for the independence and territorial integrity of Iraq. Once again we call for the lifting of the embargo against the Iraqi people, which has now been in place for more than 12 years. With regard to Western Sahara, we support the efforts by the Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy, James Baker, to find a definitive solution to insure stability in the region, one that would be accepted by all of the parties. On developments pursuant to the Lockerbie crisis, we welcome the significant steps taken by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to find a diplomatic solution to the problem. We think it is now up to the Security Council to take the necessary steps to lift the embargo imposed on Libya. Turning to our own continent, Africa, we welcome the birth of the African Union, which will be a framework for enabling the African peoples to achieve their aspirations for progress and development. We also support the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), which seeks to strengthen regional cooperation to achieve economic integration, and we welcome the support given to this initiative by our development partners. Mauritania reiterates its support for the People's Republic of China, the sole legitimate representative of the Chinese people, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI) of 1971. Mauritania welcomes the efforts made by the Government of the People's Republic of China for the peaceful reunification of that country. We have now seen it proven that violence and extremism result from poverty and despair. The international community must therefore make more efforts in the areas of human solidarity and social progress everywhere in the world. We call for the necessary assistance to be provided to the countries of the South and for the opening of the markets of the developed countries to the products of developing countries. Investment opportunities in developing countries should be increased. Despite the huge challenges and a difficult economic international situation, the Islamic Republic of Mauritania has taken major steps towards development and construction, as noted by our President at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. We have established solid foundations for sustainable development and have developed a clear-cut strategy to combat poverty. We have taken steps towards comprehensive education, health care and other social services for our people such as drinking water, electricity and communications. Illiteracy and ignorance are major obstacles to development. We have launched broad literacy and education campaigns for our citizens. We have been able to do this because of our pluralist democratic system, which insures freedoms and human rights in an atmosphere of security and stability. The United Nations Charter seeks common goals of freedom and solidarity for all people. New developments in the international arena in the last few years require our Organization, including the Security Council, to adapt to changes. Today, more than ever before, we must comply with the commitments we made to achieve a new world order based on justice and rights law, to ensure peace, security and dignity for all.   ﻿The challenges we face at the beginning of the twenty-first century are immense. We are facing terrible poverty; crises and wars; millions of refugees; the hideous face of terrorism; trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs; and regions decimated by disease as we continue to destroy the earth's ecological balance. There are no simple answers to these problems. But there is a place where we all can meet to find solutions: the United Nations. The world needs a strong United Nations. I have just quoted my Swiss colleague, first of all to celebrate his country's and East Timor's entry into the United Nations, and secondly because I fully agree with his statement. In the words of Kofi Annan: “The more a country makes use of multilateral institutions — thereby respecting shared values, and accepting the obligations and restraints inherent in those values — the more others will trust and respect it, and the stronger its chance to exercise true leadership”. (See A/57/PV.2) I know the personal commitment of my dear friend Jan Kavan, the President, to this principle. Our two countries have worked closely in a common effort to promote peace, the rule of law and shared values in South-eastern Europe. Today we can be proud that we also contributed in changing this region. It is no longer “CNN-able”, as our colleague from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Lagumdjia, said yesterday. Yet this has not been an easy process. Take my country, Greece. In the previous century, we went through two world wars, two Balkan wars and a major war with Turkey, which resulted in millions of refugees and in painful population exchanges. We suffered under civil war, famine and dictatorship. We witnessed the forced division of Cyprus through military invasion and occupation by Turkey, and the recent wars in the disintegrating former Yugoslavia in our backyard. Not far from us, conflict continues. We stand ready to support all efforts to ensure that Israel 17 may be secure and that the Palestinians may have a State they can call their own. It is no wonder that today we cherish the peace we have achieved. It is no wonder that we cherish the fact that Greece today has its most stable democracy in modern history, that we are among the more prosperous countries in the world, and that we will soon be hosting one of the most demanding events humankind has created, the Olympics. This to us is a responsibility. We have learned our lessons. We are where we are today only because of our people's steadfast commitment to work for the shared values of democracy, peace, justice, and human rights. It is no wonder that Greece has become a champion of the enlargement of the European Union, because the European Union is a community of values, and being a community of values is the biggest peace project of our region. We have a responsibility to our neighbours, from Turkey to Bosnia and Herzegovina, to see them, sooner or later, part of this wider European family — creating a new vision where all can share the values of peace and democracy and be citizens of the European Union. We have learned that at the heart of these conflicts are human beings, as the Danish Prime Minister, Mr. Rasmussen, has said. We have learned that democracy and human rights are fundamental to the life and dignity of all human beings. Whenever our global principles are violated, it is usually in societies and places where extremism and lack of democracy exist. I believe that democracy will isolate the phenomena that we have seen in recent years, such as that of 11 September. We in Greece have also known terrorism. We have suffered at the hands of a small terrorist organization called November 17. Since June, Greek security forces have brought all the key members of November 17 to justice. This formidable achievement was supported by assistance from allied intelligence agencies, to which we are indebted for their support. This experience is just one more example of how close international cooperation can accomplish common goals and protect our common values. It is also a tribute to our long-lasting democratic institutions. In the European Union, we are building not only a community of nations but a community of values. The Greek presidency of the European Union, which begins in January 2003, will promote the values of democracy and peace in every element of its agenda. We want to focus our efforts on reinforcing the trans- Atlantic relationship. We believe that the United States and the European Union share the same democratic values. We must stand united in our efforts to promote peace within a multilateral framework. We also will pay tribute to the cultural diversity that is at the heart of the European project, with a focus on reinvigorating democratic governance by renewing our efforts to build social inclusiveness and civil participation across borders, working with our new neighbours, from the Baltic region to the Mediterranean, from the Atlantic to the Caucasus, a new neighbourhood of peace, cooperation and democracy. In this community of values, I should like to talk about a case in point. A few years ago, the notion of rapprochement between Greece and Turkey was unthinkable. Now, with a common European vision, our Governments are creating a framework to solve existing problems, and citizen's diplomacy is building a bridge of peace between our nations. Athens and Ankara have concluded a number of agreements in areas ranging from energy to tourism, from education to landmines, designed to ease tension and strengthen our common interests. While fundamental differences remain on certain issues, in a short space of time, we have come a long way — and we surely can go further. I welcome my discussion and meeting with the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Gürel, and his willingness to continue on this path of rapprochement and peace. Yet our shared values are being sorely tested on the issue of Cyprus. There is now a compelling deadline for a resolution to the continuing division of the island. Negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Cyprus to the European Union will be finalized in December. We hope that a free, united Cyprus will join a free, united Europe. Unification will undoubtedly bring greater security and prosperity to both the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities on the island. But if a political settlement is not reached, the internationally recognized Republic of Cyprus will join alone. Let us therefore work to break down the walls that keep future European Union citizens apart. With the exception of Turkey, the whole world shares a vision for Cyprus as a federal State with a 18 single international personality and a single citizenship, no foreign troops on its soil, and equal rights and security guarantees for both the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities. The vast majority of the Cypriot population agrees that the two communities can and should live together, united by shared values, while preserving their individual cultural identities. We must respect United Nations resolutions on Cyprus. They must be honoured, as my Maltese colleague just repeated. Cyprus is also a critical factor for the stability and security of South-eastern Europe and the Middle East. A solution to this problem, therefore, will widen the area of stability and peace throughout the region. Not much farther away, the situation in Iraq is a challenge for us all. It challenges our respect for international law and our respect for international organizations. Greece vows to act in the way it sees fit to safeguard these valued principles. In dealing with Iraq, our actions must be guided by evidence of a threat to global security, and must be embedded in respect for the well-being of the Iraqi people. We must exhaust all available diplomatic means to ensure that Iraq complies with existing United Nations resolutions, immediately accepts the unconditional return of United Nations weapons inspectors and destroys all weapons of mass destruction. This will free the people of Iraq from the economic sanctions, which are depriving them of their basic needs. We welcome the statement by President Bush. By taking the issue of Iraq back to the Security Council, he has both challenged the Council and empowered it to move forward more effectively and more credibly. Democracy is a value that should not be taken for granted. It must be reinforced to meet new challenges in a globalizing world. In this spirit, Greece launched, in Johannesburg, the first-ever online global poll on sustainable development and the environment. Electronic democracy offers tremendous potential for bridging the digital divide that separates many peoples and individuals, for strengthening civil participation and for enhancing global democratic legitimacy and transparency. We suggest that the United Nations establish a new global forum — an electronic Demos — where citizens could articulate their views, mobilize around the issues that concern them and shape political decision-making, both nationally and internationally. Greece will make good on its commitment to sustainable development by taking concrete actions and identifying specific targets. This year, many countries celebrated the establishment of an institution that was founded on the premise that good global governance must be built on sound global principles. The International Criminal Court represents a commitment by our community of nations that no crime against humanity will go unpunished. Creating a watertight system of global justice which requires all countries to uphold common rules, principles and rights will be an important step towards building a real community of global values. Finally, I would like to say that those values lie at the heart of the Olympic Truce, which was endorsed by the Millennium Summit and the Millennium Declaration. It is global peace initiative which was just recently endorsed by the former President of South Africa, Nelson Mandela. When he signed the Olympic Truce in June, President Mandela said: “The Olympic Games represent one of the most evocative moments of celebration of our unity as human beings in pursuit of noble ideas. Among those ideas is the quest for global peace.” We uphold the values of democracy, human rights, peace and sustainable development; they can enrich us all. They can inspire us and challenge us. They are values that can inspire change in one person, in one community or in a large nation. They are values that can change the life of not just one person, but the world as a whole. These are the values upon which we must build our future and the future of our children.  ﻿On behalf of my country, I congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan and the other members of the Bureau on their election. The President can count on the full cooperation of the delegation of Chile for the success of his stewardship. The Government of Chile takes this opportunity to welcome the accession to membership of the United Nations of the Swiss Confederation and, soon, of Timor-Leste. The presence of Switzerland strengthens its historical association with the founding principles of this Organization. The upcoming presence of Timor- Leste symbolizes the role of the United Nations in the creation of a viable and democratic State. We are proud to have contributed to that mission. One year ago, this city suffered a reprehensible terrorist attack that left an indelible stain on the conscience of mankind. That date, 11 September 2001, marked a turning point in contemporary history. This episode brought us face to face with new dimensions of our human vulnerability, with a fragility that universalized insecurity. The attack perpetrated a few kilometres from this place showed us, with frightful cruelty, that human coexistence urgently requires new approaches and new instruments. It has become necessary for Governments and societies to forge positive responses and to work together to resolutely confront terrorism. In a globalized world, it is imperative that we re-evaluate multilateralism, and Chile would like to renew its commitment in that regard. We believe that, at this period of history, we have to make every effort to bring about a safer world. That challenge should unite societies and cultures. As the Secretary-General pointed out yesterday, the United Nations alone has the legitimacy necessary to contribute to an effective system of security. Complying with Security Council resolutions is a responsibility incumbent upon everyone, and is essential to the future of the Organization. The changes that have taken place in recent years have created new challenges and responsibilities for the world that we must assume, and to which we must respond, as a global society. The risks today are indeed both global and without boundaries. Both States and ordinary men and women in every part of the world now face a new environment of uncertainty. In that context, traditional notions of security which were formulated against the backdrop of threats from State actors have been overtaken. A safer world requires that we build consensus and that we develop new approaches that both take into account the multi- dimensional nature of threats and place people at the centre of their concerns. In such a security scenario it is urgent that we promote a comprehensive focus at the global level to deal with new threats and to build a world free of fear and poverty. The concept of human security has emerged from just that sort of change. We would like people to be at the centre of every multilateral deliberation. That was the priority that Chile put forth a decade ago with its initiative to hold a summit on social development. It is that same concern that has led to our participation in the Human Security Network, of which Chile has been the coordinator this year. Human security is linked to the maintenance of international peace and security, public order and the social environment. Those elements should be promoted through innovative and effective strategies. Chile's candidacy for a seat on the Security Council for the period 2003-2004 which has the support of the Group of Latin American and the Caribbean States, for which we once again express our appreciation seeks to strengthen the multilateral approach to crises that threaten international peace and security, as well as to place human security at the centre of the concerns of that main body of the United Nations. Respect for human rights is a fundamental requirement in the search for a world that is free from fear, more secure and full of hope. Human rights are a source of political and social legitimacy in the contemporary international system and provide guidelines for its actions. As a member of the 34 Commission on Human Rights, our country will participate in initiatives to strengthen the fundamental and unique role of that body. Similarly, democracy too is a universal value, one which is expressed mainly through free elections and change in governance. Strengthening democracy requires integrity, transparency and good governance. That is the proper way to create a democratic environment in which a society can be better integrated, protected and imbued with meaning. My country constructively supports and promotes the spread of the values of democracy and democratic thinking throughout the world. In our region, democracy is a fundamental value. The adoption of the Inter-American Democratic Charter represents a step forward in the continuing effort to further refine and strengthen democracy. In that vein, we welcome the establishment of the Community of Democracies as a concerted attempt to make universal the values inherent in democracy. The cultural dimension, as an expression of a modern vision, must be part of our efforts to build a safer world. Intercultural dialogue and respect for diversity are fundamental elements of civilized relations between nations. We believe that intercultural dialogue should contribute to strengthening the universal values of human dignity. International terrorism is a negation of the values that make possible civilized coexistence, in which there must be room for the diversity of the world. Terrorism is the greatest risk facing the global community in building a safer world. Political commitment is therefore needed to agree on effective efforts to eradicate terrorism within the framework of international law. Intercultural dialogue is essential to develop a global strategy to combat terrorism. The United Nations plays an essential role as the leading organization in the fight against terrorism. The work of the Security Council and of its Counter-Terrorism Committee, established pursuant to Council resolution 1373 (2001), and the development of a general convention on international terrorism are efforts that we support and to which we will continue to contribute. A convention on terrorism has been adopted at the regional level, and we will continue to intensify our cooperation through the Inter-American Committee on Terrorism and the Common Market of the South. The risks and threats to global security, which are beyond the effective control of States, highlight the nature of globalization in our world today. Indeed, the characteristics of globalization can be seen in such phenomena as the globalization of markets, the intensification of social relations and the broadening of cultural exchanges and communications. At the same time, however, risks have also become global and the imbalances resulting from the unequal distribution of wealth have increased, thereby accentuating the trend towards the marginalization and exclusion of communities, countries and regions. We believe in the benefits of economic and political globalization. But we also believe that globalization requires good governance and a systematic and shared effort by the international community to establish the rules of the new international system. We believe that there should be greater participation in this effort, as well as ongoing consultations with our citizens and our civil societies. The United Nation system is an indispensable forum for addressing these challenges. Just as we believe that the process of globalization in which we are now engaged requires clear rules in order for its benefits to reach all of mankind, we also believe that the economic growth and prosperity of countries require freedom, democracy and security in this global world. Chile had adopted a model that assigns to the market and to the private sector a key role in its development plans, within a framework of democracy and solidarity. We are convinced that active participation in international trade is a positive way of achieving growth, increasing employment, being innovative in the area of technology and being effective in the allocation of resources. Based on our commitment to development with equity, we have opened up our economy, our communications and our culture; and we are satisfied at having done so. We believe, based on our experience, that globalization can be a source of opportunity for all nations, particularly for small and remote countries such as ours, which are far from the major consumer centres and international flows. In order for the efforts of nations such as ours to be rewarded, however, it is essential for international trade to be fair, to have clear-cut, established rules, and to avoid measures that distort it. Subsidies and lax 35 implementation of anti-dumping measures are obstacles to the achievement of that goal. In this connection, I wish to place special emphasis on the urgent need for the liberalization of the trade in agricultural products. Many developing countries, including my own, are highly competitive in this sector, but the benefits are lost because of protectionism in the developed countries. We argued forcefully in Doha and Monterrey that in order for there to be growth, there must be access to markets. As President Ricardo Lagos stated in Monterrey, If trade barriers were eliminated, the developing countries would have the potential to earn $130 billion, more than twice the $50 billion that we proposed as a target for the Millennium Summit'. We urge the United Nations to continue its efforts to promote the integrated activities of the various multilateral political, economic and financial agencies that are helping to achieve a world of greater development, equity and security. As the multilateral system continues to develop culturally, socially and politically, Chile will continue to promote the mainstreaming of the gender perspective into the various activities of the international system and its subsystems. We also support the creation of opportunities for participation by civil society organizations. The more developed, more equitable and safer world to which we aspire also requires us to establish international standards for the protection of the rights of vulnerable groups. Chile will continue to encourage the conclusion of agreements that contribute to the formulation and improvement of public policies in this field. I would like to underscore our political commitment to achieving a comprehensive convention that protects and promotes the rights and dignity of people with disabilities. Integration, recognition of the dignity of people and equality of opportunity for all are the basic precepts of a more secure society. We are convinced that we need to commit ourselves as an international community to more active policies for the protection of the environment. Few issues on the international agenda affect us all equally as much as this one and, paradoxically, few generate as many disputes. The Johannesburg Summit confirmed my belief that we must work towards consensus on basic concepts. The right to live in a socially acceptable environment is an ethical imperative of the present day. We must therefore give priority to a global environmental agenda that focuses on improving legal norms relating to, and providing better protection for, the oceans, the climate, the atmosphere and the ozone layer. Given the direct impact that this issue has on development, I wish to note that, in December 2003, at ConcepciÛn, Chile, the World Biotechnology Forum will take place under the sponsorship of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and the Government of Chile. With regard to the political dimension, which emphasizes security, human rights, democracy and the fight against terrorism, I would like to refer to certain areas of the world that are of greatest concern to the international community. Latin America is a region in which democracy is the norm, even though in some cases it is fragile. The nations of our continent have learned how difficult it is to build and sustain democratic institutions based on universal principles and values. We have a number of regional and subregional mechanisms that compel us to fulfil this obligation. The Rio Group is without doubt the most important of these. The world is aware of the current economic crisis in our region. This is a paradoxical situation. Latin America responded properly to the challenge and adopted many of the structural economic reforms that were asked of it, which led to a degree of liberalization without precedent in its history. The developed world, however, is sending contradictory signals that test the faith of those of us who view globalization and the system of free trade as the basis for the development of our peoples. Those of us who believe that globalization must be based on the principles of competitiveness without exclusion thus see, on a regular basis, restrictions placed on our products; these are very difficult to explain. This casts doubt on the existence of a desire to move towards a globalization without compartmentalization. Because of its gravity, I must refer to a conflict that affects the entire international community. Chile wishes to express its deep concern at the grave situation in the Middle East in the light of the impasse in the peace negotiations aimed at finding a solution to the crisis between Palestinians and Israelis. The 36 continuing escalation of the violence that began in the region on 28 September 2000 continues to claim many victims and to cause heavy material damage, and threatens to spread throughout the region, thereby posing a serious danger to international peace and security. The Government of Chile reiterates the need for the strict implementation of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and recourse to constructive negotiation, with a view to achieving a just, comprehensive and lasting peace that make possible the creation of a viable Palestinian State and coexistence with the State of Israel within secure and internationally recognized borders. A world in which Palestinians and Israelis can live together will be a more secure world. We share the international sense of urgency that the Government of Iraq must abide by the provisions of Security Council resolutions in the interest of regional and global security. We are convinced that in this globalized world it is essential for us to act in accordance with the principles and values promoted by the United Nations. In Africa we now see signs of hope. Chile wishes to express its firm support for the African continent in its decision to create modern regional instruments, such as the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa's Development. We hope that these initiatives, to which Africans themselves have referred to as the African renaissance, will generate in the international community a response commensurate with those efforts. This is a new challenge for the twenty-first century, and the United Nations must be involved. Chile, a small nation that looks out at the world from the South, has developed important links of international solidarity in the most diverse directions in Latin America as part of the inter- American system; in its association with the European Union; and as a member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation organization. In opting for open multilateralism, we are facing today's challenge of working towards a more secure world a world free from fear and poverty. We will encounter obstacles which we must confront with shared political resolve. This is the responsibility of all the countries represented here today in the General Assembly. Let us advance towards global human security. Let us combat terrorism, poverty and misery in the search for a more democratic and more tolerant society. In this challenge, Chile is convinced that multilateralism can and must contribute to overcoming the insecurity currently prevailing in the world. The United Nations offers such an opportunity to the international community. It is a forum that can and must seek consensual solutions to the inescapable problems now plaguing humankind. ﻿On behalf of the Indonesian delegation, I am pleased to congratulate you on your election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We are sure that with your wise and skilful guidance our deliberations will be fruitful. Let me also take this opportunity to extend Indonesia's warm welcome and congratulations to the newest Member of this world Organization — Switzerland. We look forward to extending a similar welcome to East Timor when it joins our Organization in the days ahead. In November 2001, from this same podium, I asserted that in order to wage an effective struggle against the multiple threats and challenges confronting humankind, we must imbue ourselves with the democratic spirit. Without that spirit, we can only fail. In the relations and interactions among nations, the democratic spirit is put into practice through multilateralism. Multilateralism exists when a group of nations adopts a set of goals and each individual member is equally responsible for the achievement of those goals. It entails respect for one another's sensitivities and points of view, and therefore requires discussion and the forging of consensus. For the value 7 of each nation, no matter how small or how poor, is equal to that of any other. To my mind, the ultimate form of multilateralism is a United Nations with a General Assembly already revitalized, a Security Council that is truly representative of the United Nations membership, and a streamlined Secretariat that is responsive to the needs and interests of all Member States. Nowhere is the necessity for multilateralism more glaring than in our response to the scourge of our time: international terrorism. And nowhere else is the role of the United Nations more vital. The 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks in this city and in Washington were not only an attack against the United States but also an attack against civilization and all human values. Therefore, the coalition that responded to these attacks had to represent all of humanity — all nations, religions and cultures. For those reasons the United Nations was actively involved in the response to the attacks and must maintain a pivotal role in the response of the world community to the persistent threat of international terrorism; otherwise, in the long run, that endeavour will fail. The same is true of our efforts to advance the disarmament agenda, which is also imperative. Until the States concerned rid themselves of their arsenals of mass destruction — whether nuclear, biological or chemical — the danger remains that much, if not all of the human race, could be wiped out in a single holocaust. In accordance with the multilateral principle of equality, States should no longer cling to the privileges derived from military superiority over others. Multilateral affirmative action can also bring about peace, where for many years there has only been violence and bloodshed. In the Middle East, the Powers that wield great influence on the region are called upon to adopt a just and balanced approach to the issue of Palestine. They can, if they wish, persuade Israel to withdraw its forces from the occupied territories and to cease settlement activities in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. That will help pave the way for the realization of two States, Palestine and Israel, living side by side within secure internationally recognized borders. Only then will peace have a real chance. In this context we note with interest the communiqué issued yesterday by the Quartet on the Middle East outlining a roadmap to realize such a vision. Elsewhere, it is important to recall that the situation in Iraq has been an issue that has occupied the Security Council for some time. Hence, while over the past weeks we have witnessed an intensification of the international focus on this issue, we must not lose sight of the fact that mechanisms already exist within the United Nations system to address the issue. In tackling the present challenge, Indonesia deems it necessary that peaceful efforts be fully exhausted and existing United Nations mechanisms be fully utilized, and, if need be, strengthened. Any unilateral use of force risks not only undermining the authority of the United Nations, but would also carry the grave potential of destabilizing the immediate region, and indeed beyond, with its attendant humanitarian implications. For its part, Iraq must fully comply with the relevant Security Council resolutions. We are encouraged by the recent decision by the Government of Iraq to allow the return of United Nations inspectors. We trust that this will pave the way to a peaceful solution of the problem and preclude any attack against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. The situation in Iraq cannot be viewed in isolation. How we address this problem will have repercussions on the longer-standing issue of Palestine and the challenge of terrorism. In Afghanistan, the United Nations has done commendable work in helping the Afghan parties manage the post-Taliban transition. The international community must now help the Afghan people in nation-building, rehabilitating the country's infrastructure and strengthening its newborn Government. In the long run, the war against terrorism can only be won if we emerge victorious in a more basic struggle — the one against poverty. The substantial eradication of poverty, in fact, is what the development goals of the Millennium Declaration all boil down to. As reported by the Secretary-General, the world 8 community has made some progress in this endeavour, with East Asia recording the most significant gains. We still have a long way to go, however, before we can meet the goal of reducing by one half, between 1990 and 2015, the number of people living on less than a dollar a day. If the Millennium goals will be met at all, a major factor will be the achievement of an international trade regime where unilateral practices and protectionism have given way to genuine multilateralism. Hence, we trust that the forthcoming negotiations mandated by the Fourth World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference at Doha last year will make possible the full integration of developing countries into the multilateral trading system. Much also depends on whether the pledges made in Monterrey at the International Conference on Financing for Development could be fulfilled and then exceeded. Earlier this month, the World Summit on Sustainable Development reached agreement on a global programme to reduce poverty and restore the integrity of our planet and formulated a blueprint for switching to a more efficient use of carbon fuels and renewable sources of energy. Despite the lack of a timetable, the fact remains that we have an action- oriented plan of implementation to be carried out by a global partnership of governments, private business and civil society. A factor that can work against our hopes is a unilateralist trend so apparent at the global level. In the face of that trend, it becomes even more necessary and desirable that regional organizations grow in strength and share some of the burden that is now borne by the United Nations. This role was envisioned for them even when the world organization was still being established more than fifty-seven years ago. In general, regional organizations strictly adhere to a multilateral regime, and at that level many global problems are so much more manageable. It may therefore be highly advisable to find ways and means of further promoting the natural synergy between the United Nations and regional organizations. A good example is the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), of which Indonesia is a founding member. For many years now, we in ASEAN have been working with United Nations bodies to the considerable benefit of our peoples. It is in this spirit that we, the ASEAN countries, are sponsoring a resolution in the General Assembly on strengthening the working relationship between our regional organization and the United Nations system. Long before the 11 September attacks, a regional programme to combat terrorism and other transnational crimes was an integral part of our ASEAN functional cooperation. In the face of the surge of this global threat, ASEAN has set in motion a work plan to implement the 2001 ASEAN Declaration on Terrorism and Transnational Crime. We believe, however, that it is the totality of ASEAN's work that will decisively overcome not only terrorism but also the basic problem of poverty in our region. Since it was founded in 1967, ASEAN has tirelessly promoted political, economic and social development cooperation among its members. The result has been three decades of relative peace and unprecedented economic growth, interrupted only by the Asian financial crisis of 1997. To forestall the recurrence of such a devastating crisis, we have taken bold steps toward regional integration. Through this approach, we hope to achieve our vision of an ASEAN that is at peace within itself and with others, an ASEAN that is technologically competitive with the rest of the world and, through sustainable development, has reached, for our part of the world, the Millennium Development Goals. From the time of its inception, ASEAN has been much criticized for its preoccupation with consultations and consensus-building, which seem to delay action when swift action is needed. I am not troubled by this criticism because I regard it as an affirmation of ASEAN's adherence to the multilateral ethos. Multilateralism gives ASEAN coherence, commitment and perseverance in the pursuit of its goals. That is why it has been an effective catalyst for the promotion of security and economic cooperation in the Asia- Pacific region. At the national level, Indonesia has been similarly doubted: it is said that reform legislation has been lagging because of dithering and interminable debate. Moreover, in some international circles, Indonesia has been portrayed as less than fully enthusiastic in the global fight against terror on the basis of a mistaken perception that it is lenient with radical Muslim groups. And yet, after all the necessary debates, we did take large strides toward further democratization. Our parliament recently endorsed several amendments to 9 our Constitution: the adoption of a system of direct popular election of the President and Vice-President, the adoption of a bicameral system of legislature, and the abolition by 2004 of the 38 seats reserved for the military and police in the legislature. A proposal for the adoption of the Shariah or Muslim law in our legal system did not obtain support. The proponents graciously and democratically accepted this reality and bowed to the decision of the people's representatives and to the force of public opinion. This reflects our common commitment to democracy. We will adhere to the democratic process even in addressing serious threats to our national security, such as the separatist movements in the provinces of Aceh and Papua and the disruptive communal strife in the provinces of Maluku. On Aceh, we are prepared to resume negotiations with the Free Aceh Movement, provided the Movement drop its separatist demand, cease resorting to terrorist tactics and accept the law on special autonomy as a final political solution to the problem. At the same time, we shall continue to provide protection to civilians from terrorist attacks that disrupt public order and cause much suffering. We have also applied special autonomy to the province of Papua, which guarantees protection of the cultural rights of the people, a just and equitable share of the resources for development, and redress of legitimate grievances. In the provinces of Maluku and North Maluku, communal strife has greatly abated with the signing of two peace agreements between the factions and the holding of reconciliation dialogues. The main task now is to build goodwill among the communities and help thousands of internally displaced persons return home and start a new life. In many of our endeavours at political, economic and social reform, we have been supported by United Nations organizations, funds and programmes. We are therefore deeply grateful to the Secretary-General for his intention to enhance United Nations efforts to assist Indonesia in promoting good governance and in establishing a stable, democratic and prosperous society. Thus at the national level, we have committed ourselves to the processes of dialogue, wide participation and accountability, which are all inherent in a democracy, just as we stand for multilateralism in international affairs. We are committed to promote and protect the individual rights of our citizens, just as we have always advocated that every nation, no matter how small or powerless, must have a voice in international affairs. At the same time, however, we affirm that democracy is not merely the breaking of chains and the enjoyment of rights. Whoever would truly be free must bind himself to the duties and obligations that match and give meaning to his rights. Every individual has responsibilities to the community that nurtures him, just as every nation has responsibilities to the community of humankind, including the responsibility to respect the views of all other members of that community. This is the fundamental meaning of multilateralism. In the ultimate analysis, this is all we need to address the challenges of our time and make a more peaceful, more just and more prosperous world: that we all be sincerely responsible to one another, for one another and for the planet that is our only home in this life.  ﻿A year has gone by since the entire world mourned the victims of the World Trade Center tragedy and condemned the barbaric acts most formally. Today, from this rostrum, on behalf of the Union of the 26 Comoros and the Comorian people, I wish to evoke the memory of all those who in the United States and elsewhere have suffered injustice at the hands of those who have acted outside faith or law. We condemn terrorism in all its forms. Allow me to congratulate President Kavan warmly on behalf of the delegation of the Union of the Comoros, which I have the honour to head. I also wish to convey the trust and confidence that we have in him to lead the work of this session, based on his experience, personal qualities and diplomatic expertise. Permit me also to convey to His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo our great pleasure and admiration by recognizing the outstanding work he did as President of the previous session. I wish to convey a strong tribute to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, our Secretary- General, for his constant devotion in the service of our Organization. The Union of the Comoros heartily welcomes Switzerland and Timor-Leste as new Members of our Organization. The United Nations is an organization whose duty it is to assure humankind the conditions of living in peace, dignity and prosperity. This is an enormous and large-scale task that surely poses certain daunting difficulties that we will need to overcome. This must be so, because in no way must we or should we shrink away from obstacles and challenges. This institution must be the true guarantor of the hopes of present and future generations. This requires a true awareness of its universality, which calls for reforming its main organs. These organs must be in a position to reflect and adapt to the reality of the present world. Furthermore, and in a different context, this new political framework must go hand in hand with development, a development that takes into account the inequalities, but also the specificities of each place. There are many evils gnawing at our planet, but they affect us in different degrees. The advances of the technological world of the North contrast with the fierce struggle of the South, even now in the twenty- first century, to achieve the most basic living conditions. The extreme poverty of the South, AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are all offensive to human dignity. The South's struggle for survival is meaningful only if it finds some response in the North. This presupposes recognition of the equality of rights and of inequality of means to guarantee these rights. In Africa, initiatives such as the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) have been devised to address and remedy a socio-economic situation that has led to the most atrocious effects. But we must recognize that NEPAD's viability also depends on the North's good will to contribute to finding an appropriate solution to the main problems of the African continent. Our countries, on the other hand, place their hopes in the recommendations of the World Summit on Sustainable Development recently held in Johannesburg. This world forum took into account the human being and all the dimensions of life and survival. In other words, we hope that, by the year 2015, we will actually see a reduction in poverty by half, so that we may address priorities other than hunger, disease and war, among others. The time has come for our countries to save our peoples from the many agonies of war and from traumatic effects on our children and to put an end to the unprecedented losses suffered by our economies due to the exorbitant cost of weapons that harm our lives and those of our children. It is time to become aware of our heavy responsibility to ensure that future generations are not sacrificed to history. From another standpoint, war seeks only to prove one's force to another, and prove one's capacity to destroy. From that perspective, it can only be nefarious. This has led Comorians to banish any attempt to do anything that would lead us to confrontation. We reinforce our internal forces, which, together with our wisdom and the culture of the Comoros, lead us to forgive. We base this on our religion, Islam, which advocates tolerance, peace and love of neighbour. Guided by these sacred principles, the people of Comoros, after four years of upheaval in its socio- political sphere, finally found itself, found reconciliation and decided to heal its old wounds. Thus, on the initiative of President Azali, the various parties of the Comoros came to an agreement of national reconciliation, with the support of the Organization of African Unity and the International Organization of la Francophonie. Following this agreement and after establishing a Transitional Government of national unity, pluralistic, transparent and democratic presidential elections for 27 the Union of the Comoros and for the islands took place. The contest was run in a legitimate way and the winner was the outgoing President, Colonel Azali Assoumani. Following the elections, every island was given its own president, with full responsibility for self-management. Toward the end of this year, we will hold legislative elections intended to establish national institutions and to provide the country with a parliament. This next stage is also of crucial importance. In fact, with the establishment of the parliaments, we will be able to address and settle many outstanding issues not settled by the constitutions of the islands and the Constitution of the Union. These constitutions have often referred to organic laws, which must be enacted by the parliaments. We must recognize that this silence, this absence of legislation, may have led to misunderstanding, but this has not interfered with the regular functioning of the administration. Furthermore, commissions have been established to review modalities that are to enable the progressive transfer of powers to the authorities of the autonomous islands subject to the provisions of the various constitutions. It is obvious that beginnings are often difficult. In these circumstances, this transfer, as well as the procedures for the distribution of State property, have sometimes met with disagreement from one quarter or another. This is understandable in a country that had formerly been managed under a different system. This situation can be explained, in our view, by the absence of organic laws that would determine details of essential aspects currently subject to protest by various parties. We trust that with the establishment of the Parliament, these misunderstandings will be allayed and will yield to the harmony needed to manage the political life of the autonomous islands and of the Union. I wish to convey the deep appreciation of the people and the Government of the Comoros to all the brotherly and friendly countries and all the regional and international institutions which have to date supported us in every respect. Their cooperation has been indispensable, and, together with the wisdom of the people of the Comoros, has enabled us to avoid the worst in a small country where we are all one family. We pay enthusiastic tribute to their actions. Equally, it is our wish that crises in other parts of the world will have a satisfactory conclusion. We appeal to all partners of the Comoros to continue supporting our country as it pursues its socio-economic development. Without minimizing the question of the Comorian island of Mayotte, I wish to refer to that subject last of all. This is a matter of great concern to the people and the Government of my country. In fact, this is a matter of sovereignty, and thus of dignity and patriotic conscience, which we cannot abandon, because by doing so we would be abandoning our identity, our culture, our civilization, our history and our geography. In our quest for a solution to this problem, a single principle guides us and a single will moves us to resolve this painful dispute with respect for international law and in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, while at the same time preserving the benefits we enjoy within the framework of our relations with France. In that respect, speaking on behalf of the Government of the Union of the Comoros, I fervently appeal to France to ensure that a dialogue begins. The strategy we advocate has the advantage of insuring that the Comorian Island of Mayotte will not remain in isolation, that it will be incorporated into a regional framework which will bring it closer to its sister islands as well as to its neighbours in the subregion. We therefore hope the same considerations will prevail on the French side so that together we can reach an agreement which will guarantee greater calm and better understanding within our long-standing relationship. Whenever I address this question I recall the great Tunisian poet Abu al-Qasim al-Shabbi, who invites us not to despair and to rely on reason. If people ever want life Then time must respond, Night must dissipate and shackles Must be shattered.'   ﻿I would like, Sir, to extend to you my warmest congratulations on your election as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I have no doubt that your long experience and proven diplomatic skills will successfully steer the work of this session. I would also like to extend my appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his effective and determined guidance during the work of the fifty-sixth session. Cyprus joins other States in extending a warm welcome to the newest Member of the United Nations, Switzerland, and we look forward also to welcoming East Timor. The opening of this session coincides with a time of overwhelming challenges for the international community. The fact that the global problems are so numerous demands a determined and collective response and necessitates the enhancement of the role of the United Nations as the leading mechanism in securing world peace and stability. Cyprus would like to reaffirm its strong devotion to the United Nations and its commitment to the cause of international cooperation and multilateralism, so eloquently advocated and defended in the Secretary- General's statement to the General Assembly on 12 September 2002. It is our firm belief that the international community should act in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter and that all United Nations resolutions should be implemented. Such an approach will not only enhance the credibility of the Organization, but will also facilitate the achievement of permanent solutions based on objectivity, justice and international law. In the case of Cyprus, numerous resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council have yet to be implemented. Contrary to its obligations under the Charter, Turkey shows its defiance by calling for the acceptance of the so-called realities brought about by its aggression. Twenty-eight years have passed since the tragic summer of 1974, and the people of Cyprus, both Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, are still suffering from the terrible consequences of the Turkish invasion and the continuing military occupation of 37 per cent of the Republic's territory. The Government of Cyprus, however, does not want to engage in polemics with Turkey. On the contrary, we believe that we should move beyond confrontation towards a common future of prosperity, democracy and regional cooperation. In this respect, both sides should seize the moment and take advantage of the current window of opportunity for the achievement of a just and viable settlement of the Cyprus problem, based on Security Council resolutions, which represent the verdict of the international community and its collective wisdom. The time to engage in a serious, meaningful dialogue is now, given the unique convergence of positive factors, including the renewed interest of the international community, the personal involvement and commitment of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to whom we express our appreciation, and the European Union accession process for Cyprus. Regrettably, the international community has yet to see the greatly anticipated change of attitude on the Turkish side. The Security Council, in its statement of 9 July, authoritatively declared that 14 “the Turkish Cypriot side had been less constructive in its approach so far, and had declined to support the goal of resolving the core issues”. (Press Release SC/7444) The Council also strongly underscored the need for the Turkish side to cooperate fully in the ongoing effort for a comprehensive settlement, taking into full consideration the relevant Security Council resolutions and treaties. We invite Turkey and the Turkish-Cypriot leadership to heed the call of the international community and abandon its unacceptable policy of division and communal segregation. Their position in favour of a “two sovereign States” solution and of the denial of the rights of refugees to their property represents an anachronism in a globalized world — a world in which we view diversity as an enrichment and are bound together by integration, the quest for democracy and the rule of law. Most importantly, such a policy cannot lead to a settlement or to reconciliation, and would thus perpetuate the suffering and the plight of all Cypriots. We call on the Turkish side to respect Security Council resolutions, and the high-level agreements signed by Mr. Denktash himself, which provide for a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation and which envision a State with a single sovereignty, single citizenship and a single international character. In keeping with the interests of our people and with the need for regional stability, our vision for Cyprus represents a departure from the passions of the past. We see the future of our country in a reunited federal State, with membership in the European Union and with the human rights and fundamental freedoms of each and every citizen fully protected. We are aware that the overwhelming majority of Turkish Cypriots share this vision and long for reunification and for a common future in the European Union, with all the safeguards of a modern, democratic and effective State. They know that the accession of Cyprus would offer to all its citizens security and social and economic advancement, especially for the Turkish Cypriot community. As for our side, President Clerides, who has been participating in the talks in a constructive and positive manner, thereby earning the respect of the international community, will continue to show determination and farsightedness so as to fully safeguard the interests of Cyprus and its people. One year has passed since the heinous attacks of 11 September, which dramatically changed the international political climate. The immediate actions of the United Nations in the aftermath of the attacks reaffirmed the strong determination of the international community to counteract the global threat of terrorism, which transcends geographical regions and religions. Cyprus believes in the necessity of global mobilization and collective action against terrorism, under the auspices of the United Nations. It has become evident that in the fight against terrorism, the importance of an individual country is not related to its size or its geographic location. Every State has a vital contribution to make in the struggle to combat this threat to our common values. The Government of the Republic of Cyprus reaffirms its commitment to this struggle through full implementation of all relevant international conventions and protocols relating to terrorism, as well as of Security Council resolutions. Our determination has been explicitly stated at the highest level and through our ratification of all 12 of the international conventions and protocols pertaining to international terrorism. Two recent international events deserve special mention, since they have created a momentum for international cooperation on issues of a political, economic, environmental and legal nature. The first session of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute was a veritable landmark in combating impunity and deterring genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and aggression. On the other hand, the World Summit on Sustainable Development reaffirmed the necessity for coordinated and effective international action in the form of a joint effort to overcome the challenges of economic disparity and environmental degradation. It is now imperative to achieve the effective implementation of all the commitments that have been undertaken. Turning a blind eye to nature's warnings will exacerbate the problem and make their consequences for the global ecosystem irreversible. Cyprus also reiterates the need for joint efforts to implement the Millennium Development Goals and the Monterrey Consensus. Moreover, my country attaches particular importance to strengthening the New Partnership for Africa's Development, which represents a viable opportunity for the African continent to escape marginalization and underdevelopment. 15 The situation in the Middle East remains fragile; its repercussions could seriously threaten stability far beyond the region. Cyprus, as a neighbouring State with close relations to the parties involved, supports all initiatives aimed at achieving a just settlement, based on international law and United Nations resolutions, including the efforts of the Quartet. Such a settlement would lead to both peace and stability and would ensure normal relations and security for all the countries of the region. It would also have to include the fulfilment of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people through the creation of their own State and the termination of occupation. Most importantly, it would put an end to violence and reinforce the voices of moderation and cooperation. We reiterate our condemnation of all acts of terror, including suicide bombings. As in the past, we stand ready to assist the parties in any way they feel that we can contribute, including by hosting meetings on the island. Cyprus attaches great importance to the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament. It will therefore continue to support international action aimed at strengthening multilateral instruments on disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In this spirit, I wish to inform the Assembly that the Government of the Republic of Cyprus has recently proceeded, in cooperation with the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus, with the destruction of a significant number of weapons and has decided unilaterally to demine the buffer zone. Moreover, Cyprus is in the final stage of ratifying the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel mines. The general debate of this session is nearing its end. The distinct focus of this session has been the galvanization of world opinion with respect to the necessity of implementing United Nations resolutions. Cyprus has long been advocating respect for all United Nations resolutions, without double standards or exceptions. We are convinced that this would bring us closer to the shared vision of collective security, peace and justice envisioned by the founding fathers of the Organization. ﻿Let me begin by stating that our thoughts and prayers are with the people of the United States as they commemorate the first anniversary of the 11 September 2001 terror attacks in New York and Washington. The events of that day compel us to unite and adopt effective measures to eradicate the scourge of terrorism. I take this opportunity to reaffirm Botswana's strong support for the work of the Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee established to monitor the effective implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). The international community must maintain its unity and remain vigilant so as to ensure that such acts of terror never happen again. It is my pleasure to extend to you, Sir, and to your country, Chad, the warm congratulations of Botswana on your election to a vice-presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, and to wish you every success. I assure you of the full cooperation of my delegation. If we had started this meeting on time, I would not have minded at all. I have greater respect for time than for hordes of latecomers. I am also grateful for the fact that after other heads of State or Government left New York, nobody removed the chairs in the Assembly Hall. I wish to pay tribute to Mr. Han Seung-Soo of the Republic of Korea, President of the General Assembly at the fifty-seventh session, for the skilful manner in which he conducted the work of that session. Let me also place on record that we appreciate the good work which our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, is doing to reform the United Nations funds and programmes. The reform process is contributing to the strengthening of the capacity of those special institutions to deliver assistance to Member States in a more coherent and efficient manner. I join others in congratulating and welcoming into the United Nations family Switzerland, a new Member State, and East Timor, which is soon to become one. 2 I am delighted that Switzerland has now taken its rightful place in this world body. The United Nations has indeed been strengthened, and its universal character has undoubtedly been enhanced. In East Timor the United Nations demonstrated its commitment to the principles and purposes of the Charter by playing a pivotal and decisive role in ensuring that the people of East Timor can, at long last, exercise their right to national self-determination. We live in a world of diverse cultures and traditions, yet we are united by our common humanity. There is no alternative to coming together to address the many dangers that threaten humanity. No one country can hope to successfully confront, on its own, those global challenges whether underdevelopment, poverty, insecurity or threats to peace. They are challenges that require global solutions and the participation of all global stakeholders to confront them. It is for those reasons that the United Nations remains an important unifying institution for all of humanity. It is the only institution that can play the important role of fostering partnership, cooperation and multilateralism. States especially those, like ours, that our small have high expectations of what multilateral cooperation can do for them, and how it can change for the better the lives and destiny of the peoples of the United Nations. In this regard, we cannot fail to speak about the varied and complex challenges developing countries continue to face, particularly in the continent of Africa. Despite consistent efforts in the past to assist Africa, there are still widening disparities in development between the continent and the rest of the world. Africa continues to experience high levels of poverty, which is aggravated by, among other things, the unfavourable global economic environment and conflicts. These challenges are further compounded by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Let me hasten to state that to acknowledge the existence of problems does not mean that the future is entirely bleak. There are positive developments that give reason for hope for the realization of the aspirations of our people. Africa has committed itself to creating an environment conducive to economic growth and development. We have taken concrete steps to ensure that Africa is united and better prepared to face up to its problems. We have taken the first step in a broad and comprehensive process to bring our countries together through the establishment of the African Union. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), which was considered by this Assembly this week, is one of the major initiatives of the African Union. Botswana is convinced that NEPAD provides a sound basis for building real partnerships within the continent, as well as with the rest of the international community. It is important to reiterate Africa's deep appreciation of the support and assistance that we have received and continue to receive from the international community. We particularly welcome the resolution that has just been adopted by the General Assembly mandating the United Nations funds and programmes to support the implementation of NEPAD. Botswana is also happy with the decision of the G8 countries to join hands with us to ensure the success of this initiative. We stand ready to make our contribution so that the noble objectives of NEPAD can be attained. Central to the achievement of Africa's development objectives is a commitment by the international community to implement the decisions of the United Nations world conferences. We need to work assiduously to implement the Monterrey Consensus, which identifies sources that can be used to finance the development goals that we have set for ourselves. Potential sources include the mobilization of domestic resources; the mobilization of external resources, including foreign direct investment; increased financial and technical cooperation; and the resolution of the debt crisis. The Monterrey Consensus also recognizes trade as an engine of growth and development. The international community therefore has a responsibility to ensure that developing countries can participate in world trade. In this regard, we view partnership agreements, such as the Cotonou Agreement and the African Growth and Opportunity Act, as important steps towards fulfilling some of the objectives of the Monterrey Consensus. HIV/AIDS remains, undoubtedly, the most serious threat to the economic and social progress of the world. Its devastating impact on the African continent is well documented. There is no doubt that no one country has the capacity to deal with the problems associated with this epidemic on its own. If we are to conquer it, we will need a strategy that combines efforts on a broad front. Those who think that they are 3 still free from the epidemic and that it is an African problem had better wake up, because next time it will be on their own doorstep. Botswana is immensely grateful for the support it has received from the United Nations and other cooperating partners in its efforts to fight the epidemic. I also wish to commend the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts in mobilizing the international community to support our efforts. I am sure that, with the help of the international community, we in Africa will still be standing when the dust settles. Botswana is pleased to note the commendable efforts that the United Nations continues to make in the maintenance of peace and security in various parts of the world. With the continued assistance of the United Nations and the rest of the international community, we have reason to be optimistic and hope that the continent of Africa will soon find peace. We have closely followed the Organization's initiative in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, particularly in the areas of the disarmament, demobilization, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration of the former combatants into civil society. We welcome the ongoing consultations between the various parties to the conflict. We are anxious, however, to see full-fledged negotiations that can lead to a lasting political settlement. The people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo yearn for peace and national reconciliation, as well as the social and economic development of their country. We therefore call upon all parties to demonstrate greater determination and a sense of urgency in the search for a peaceful resolution of the conflict in that country. Peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is possible and necessary, but in the final analysis, it depends on the political will of the signatories to the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement. I wish to salute the efforts and indomitable spirit of my immediate predecessor, Sir Ketumile Masire. He has been tireless and unwavering in his mission of facilitating the inter-Congolese dialogue, convincing the people of that country that peace can come only if they are willing to talk to each other. Nobody will come from heaven or hell to create peace for them. I also wish to place on record Botswana's appreciation of the efforts and determination of President Mbeki of South Africa. He has invested substantial time, energy and resources to find solutions to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Botswana welcomes and commends the historic step taken by the Government of Angola and UNITA in signing the Memorandum of Understanding of 4 April 2002 as an addendum to the Lusaka Protocol. The people of Angola have opted for peace. They expect the international community to help them consolidate this peace. Let us not fail them. I ask the ambassadors and foreign ministers who happen to be present here to take the message to my fellow heads of State in Africa that we should not let down the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and, above all, the people of Angola. They have suffered enough. Conflicts and instability in other parts of the world, such as the Middle East and Afghanistan, are of serious concern to us. We look to the international community, within the framework of the United Nations, to play a greater role in the peaceful resolution of those conflicts. Let me conclude by reiterating Botswana's continued support for the United Nations and express my delegation's appreciation to the Secretary-General, whose visionary leadership has continued to guide our Organization. ﻿Allow me first to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the high office of the presidency of the current session and to express confidence that, under your able leadership, the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly will be successful and fruitful. The terrorist acts in the United States, the anniversary of which we have just marked with great sorrow, prompted all mankind to pay close attention to the fundamental issues of sustainable development. The barbaric acts of international terrorists demonstrated very convincingly the fragility of the world we live in and the importance for all States to join their efforts to ensure economic development and civil rights, security and stability. The contemporary world, with all the diversity of its political and economic systems, requires, as never before, agreed and coordinated efforts by the community of nations to protect common human values, primarily the rights of all citizens to a decent life. Has mankind been able to rid itself of its own entrenched flaws — poverty, environmental pollution, disease and crime? The answer is more than evident: the community of nations has not made progress in resolving those issues. Thus, breeding grounds have been created for the spread of such dangerous phenomena as terrorism and drug trafficking, religious extremism and the illegal arms trade. Having crossed the threshold of the new millennium, mankind has been forced to exert efforts to resolve centuries-old issues and to counter new threats. The events that took place last year have changed the world and have prompted everybody to think hard about the foundations that support it. The community of nations faces a pressing task: to create a new architecture of global security based on a multi-polar world, and to set up effective mechanisms to overcome the obstacles to modern economic and political development. In our view, under these circumstances, the role and the responsibility of international institutions, primarily the United Nations, become significantly greater. Strengthening the authority of the United Nations is our common responsibility. We believe that the existing system of adopting decisions affecting the fundamental interests of mankind should never be doubted, let alone reshaped in any way. The issues of the world and peace should be considered and decisions reflecting the will and the interests of the community of nations should be adopted only within the framework of the United Nations. Grounds for the use of force against Member States should be irrefutable evidence, corroborated by international institutions, of their illegal action to disrupt the world order and to undermine global and regional security. The changed world forces us to take a fresh look at disarmament issues, primarily the consolidation of the non-proliferation regime. It is becoming more and more evident that, under these new conditions, the community of nations should focus its main efforts on preventing terrorists from getting hold of weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, joint action by Member States to continue to consolidate the non-proliferation regime and to make it universal deserve special attention. We believe that the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which binds its participants to take nuclear disarmament measures, 9 should continue to play an important role in the area of nuclear arms control. As one of the few States in the world that have voluntarily relinquished their nuclear heritage, we believe that a prerequisite for an atmosphere of trust in contemporary international relations is the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). Because it attaches great significance to the preservation of peace and security in Central Asia, Kazakhstan is interested in signing, as soon as possible, a treaty creating a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region. Such a zone could be an important contribution by regional States to the disarmament and arms control efforts of international community. Further, additional results-oriented efforts to prevent the excessive accumulation of and illegal trafficking in small arms are no less important. It is impossible to ignore the alarming fact that 55 per cent of known small arms stocks, equivalent to 305 million pieces, are now already in private hands. In view of the need for targeted actions in this area, we express our willingness to host in Kazakhstan, in 2003, an international conference on this subject under the auspices of the United Nations. Our country, home to the Baikonur space launching pad, is well aware of the harmful effects of the militarization of outer space. Therefore, we believe that it is imperative to start, without delay, talks to prevent an arms race in outer space. From the very start, Kazakhstan has resolutely and unconditionally supported counter-terrorist actions by the international coalition. Without any doubt, its effective measures have contributed to the settlement of the situation in Afghanistan. Together with all interested States and parties, our country supports the key role of the United Nations in the post-conflict peace-building in Afghanistan. We intend to take a most active part in implementing an international aid programme for Afghanistan. Kazakhstan is cooperating successfully with the World Food Programme by using it to send its agricultural products to Afghanistan. Our country has provided the Afghan people with free humanitarian aid in the form of grain. We believe that early implementation of the decisions adopted at the Tokyo Conference will contribute to the successful solution of the Afghan problem and to the eradication of international terrorism. When we speak about Afghanistan, we cannot ignore the issue of drug trafficking. Unfortunately, that long-suffering country continues to be a main source of the proliferation of drugs that are being transported through the territories of the Central Asian States and sold on the world markets, first of all in Europe. This problem is getting more and more dangerous and requires urgent and effective measures by the community of nations. We hope that the coordinating role of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme will be strengthened. One has to realize that it is the drug trafficking that constitutes a financial basis of international terrorism. When we put up a just fight against that evil, we, unfortunately, fight its manifestations and do not pay due attention to the root cause of the phenomenon. If this state of affairs remains unchanged, curbing international terrorism will turn into an indefinite process that will exhaust all financial and political resources of the community of nations. The world community is closely watching the development of the situation in the Middle East. Interested States quite justifiably express their concern over the deteriorating chances of a peaceful settlement. We support the need to convene as soon as possible an international conference on the Middle East settlement in order to take parallel steps: to strengthen Israel's security, to strengthen Palestinian economic and political institutions and to settle the details of the final peace agreement. The international community also has to intensify its efforts to curb terrorism and meet the humanitarian needs of the Palestinian people. Since the first days of its independence, Kazakhstan has focussed its foreign affairs efforts on the creation of a security system in Asia. That goal was advanced by the first summit meeting of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA), convened in June of this year in Almaty. For the first time ever, the heads of the major Asian States came together to express their political will and interest in a joint search for ways to strengthen peace and stability in the Asian region. The adoption at the summit meeting of the final documents, the Almaty Act on the institutionalization of the CICA and the Declaration on Eliminating Terrorism and Promoting Dialogue among 10 Civilizations, has had an extraordinary significance. For the first time ever, the Asian continent has adopted documents making a significant contribution to regional and global security. Expressing our appreciation to the CICA member States for their efficient work at the summit meeting, we call on all interested States to continue their work to implement confidence-building measures in Asia. We in Kazakhstan believe that the Shanghai Cooperation Organization can become an effective tool in ensuring security and stability in the region. The main mission of that organization is to address jointly the problems of security, as well as to create effective mechanisms for trade, economic and humanitarian cooperation. The Johannesburg Summit fully highlighted the important need to overcome the antagonisms of modern economic and political development. It has become evident that with increasing globalization, the community of nations will have to pay close attention to the search for ways to ensure a more harmonious division of profits and benefits between the rich and poor among mankind. Addressing the forum in South Africa, the President of Kazakhstan, Mr. Nursultan Nazarbaev, rightly observed that without the natural and human resources of the developing countries the rich States would have never become rich. It is commonly recognized that sustainable development is the only way to ensure the survival of mankind. Therefore, Kazakhstan supports targeted and coordinated efforts by the international community to solve burning economic, social and environmental problems of the Central Asian region. We attach great significance to cooperation with the United Nations in water resources management, rehabilitation of the environmental disaster areas in the Semipalatinsk region and the Aral Sea, the preservation of biodiversity and the prevention of soil degradation and desertification. At the same time, Kazakhstan has every right to expect more effective actions in this field on the part of the United Nations. Unfortunately, our country, as well as other regional States, have yet to receive assistance that would speed up the solution of the environmental problems. Kazakhstan is interested in strengthening fruitful cooperation with the United Nations to improve regional transportation infrastructure, including within the United Nations Special Programme for the Economies of Central Asia (SPECA). Kazakhstan is actively cooperating with its Eurasian Economic Community partners and considers that integration organization to be a very promising structure in terms of creating a common economic space for an extensive stretch of the Eurasian continent. Our country stands for a more effective Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) and for making its activities more goal-oriented. We express our hope that the upcoming Istanbul summit will become a milestone in ECO's activities. The diplomatic efforts of Kazakhstan are also aimed at further strengthening political cooperation, trade and economic ties with the Central Asian States. We believe that a recently created new organization, the Central Asian Union, has an important role to play in this regard. The legal status of the Caspian Sea is becoming an increasingly important problem within the context of current international relations. The lack of consensus among the five Caspian States on the legal status of this unique water basin seriously hampers the chances of turning the Caspian Sea into a zone of peace and genuine cooperation. The issues of unrestricted navigation, the protection of biodiversity and the environment, as well as demilitarization, remain very much on the agenda. Kazakhstan has consistently called for the continuation of the preparatory work for a multilateral convention based on the consensus among the five Caspian States in order to develop secure legal safeguards providing for long-term and stable cooperation and for creating favourable conditions for attracting investments to develop the mineral resources of the Caspian Sea. In this regard, Kazakhstan attaches great significance to an agreement with Russia on the delimitation of the seabed in the northern part of the Caspian Sea in order to ensure the rights of the users of the seabed subsoil, as well as to the protocol on the modified median line in this part of the sea signed in June of this year. We believe that the signing of these documents represents a breakthrough in the protracted process of the development of the legal status of the Caspian Sea. These important agreements give the green light to foreign investments in the development of the enormous mineral resources of Kazakhstan's sector of the sea. This will allow our country to join the group of leading world producers of hydrocarbons. We intend to continue our cooperation with international financial institutions and companies, thereby ensuring a favourable investment climate in Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan has assumed obligations with regard to the observation and protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Our country is a participant in major international human rights conventions and exerts every effort to implement them. Democracy and human rights are part and parcel of political life in Kazakhstan, which has undertaken, in complex geopolitical conditions, reforms aimed at the liberalization of the economy and at the creation of a civil society. These reforms are unprecedented for a post-Soviet State. The question of human rights, in the view of our country, should be on the agenda of inter-State cooperation. At the same time, we believe that unified standards and criteria should be used in assessing the human rights situation in a particular country. We believe that the prerogative and responsibility for the consideration of the state of affairs in this very sensitive area should rest with the United Nations. We are pinning great hopes on the activities of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In an increasingly interdependent world, there is no alternative to multilateral cooperation. Only jointly can we work successfully for a world without wars and conflicts, a world based on justice and prosperity. We have embraced with great enthusiasm the statement made by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and express our support for his concept of joining efforts in order to address the key issues of modern times.   ﻿On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Moldova, I join other delegations in congratulating Mr. Jan Kavan on his election as the President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung- soo, for the competent manner in which he managed 24 this forum during the dramatic period of the previous session. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Swiss Confederation as a Member of our family of nations. We look forward to welcoming East Timor as the 191st Member of the United Nations in the near future. One year after the terrible attacks of 11 September, we remember the innocent victims of those crimes. As a result of that tragedy, the world changed fundamentally in many ways. The international community agreed to start fighting terrorism in all its forms. The international anti-terrorism coalition, led by the United States, succeeded in significantly undermining the capacity of the Al-Qaeda terrorist organization and in removing the Taliban regime, which had hosted it. The General Assembly and the Security Council took prompt action resulting in mandatory measures aimed at eliminating all forms and manifestations of terrorism and requiring Member States to take administrative, financial, legal and other steps. The immediate, effective and, even more important, united action by the United Nations against a terrorist threat that had now reached a new level shows the Organization's continued importance and viability. Once more, we saw the capacity of the United Nations to fulfil its noble mission by uniting and mobilizing us for this relentless fight. The Republic of Moldova supports those actions and reaffirms its commitment to fighting terrorism in all its forms. My country has been taking concrete action towards the implementation of all relevant United Nations decisions, especially Security Council resolutions 1373 (2001) and 1390 (2002). First, concrete steps have been taken to consolidate our domestic anti-terrorist legislation. Moldova presented two relevant reports to the Counter-Terrorism Committee. Only months after those tragic events, our Parliament adopted a law to combat terrorism and a law to prevent and combat money-laundering. Relevant modifications were introduced to the Criminal Code. With its recent accession to the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombing and to the International Convention against the Taking of Hostages, as well as its ratification[n of the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, Moldova is about to conclude its process of acceding to the 12 main international instruments related to combating terrorism. We call on all Member States to undertake new efforts to conclude the United Nations Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism. At the same time, as a new independent State, we ask for expert support in implementing some of those complex measures. Moldova has shown its political will to combat terrorism by actively participating in new efforts within the framework of many regional and subregional organizations, including the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe; the Commonwealth of Independent States; the Stability Pact for South-East Europe; the South-East Europe Cooperative Initiative; and the Georgia, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Moldova Group. The stabilization and rehabilitation process in Afghanistan is a test for the Organization and for the rest of the international community. Considerable progress has been achieved, and we must commend the job done by the anti-terrorism coalition under very difficult conditions, the efforts of international donors and, above all, the efforts of the Afghanistan leadership, led by President Hamid Karzai. The Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Afghanistan, Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi, has repeatedly urged the international community to maintain its strong and active support for the Government and people of Afghanistan. We share the view that stability for Afghanistan must be seen within the context of a broader stabilization process that secures increased support from international financial organizations for all Central Asian countries. Undoubtedly, there is an urgent need for more substantial efforts to bring an end to the Middle East conflict. This year has been marked by successive terrorist attacks on Israeli civilians and by Israel's disproportionate use of force against the Palestinians. We support the efforts of the Quartet to restart the peace process on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions in order to achieve the peaceful coexistence of Israel and an independent Palestinian State within secure and internationally recognized borders. We share the concern expressed by many previous speakers on the situation concerning Iraq, and we call on Baghdad to comply immediately and fully with all relevant Security Council resolutions. In that regard, we welcome the statement made recently in this Hall by President Bush recognizing the central role of 25 the United Nations and calling on it to shoulder its responsibility. Moldova, a country with an economy in transition, attaches great importance to the United Nations agenda for development and, in particular, the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration. The International Conference on Financing for Development held in Monterrey this year, the Doha Development Agenda and the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg constituted an essential step in the convergence of international efforts in such vital areas as the eradication of poverty and the reversal of environmental and resource degradation. The external debt burden, the lack of necessary resources, weak financial and banking systems, frequent natural calamities and droughts are undermining many of the efforts made by our Governments. Unfortunately, some recommendations implemented at the request of and at the insistence of some international financial institutions have proved to be relatively, or even totally, ineffective. While they accept primary responsibility for the well-being of their citizens, many Governments in the developing world are still waiting for promised resources. My country welcomes the entry into force on 1 July of this year of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC), which inaugurated a new era in the affirmation of fundamental human rights on the world stage. Moldova has begun preparations to join the ICC, which we believe will become an effective, competent and equitable legal instrument. The recent debates in the General Assembly on the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) demonstrate that the world strongly supports the unprecedented integration processes taking place on the African continent. The Republic of Moldova welcomes the creation of the African Union. We share the view that the United Nations and the entire international community must remain fully engaged in resolving the conflicts that still prevail in many parts of Africa. Conflict prevention is the central challenge facing our Organization. The Secretary-General called for the United Nations to move from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention. Poverty, inequality and injustice are most frequently named as causes of conflicts. Separatism is also one of the phenomena provoking instability and conflicts in many parts of the world. While we are mentioning the improvement in the Balkan situation, there are still a number of so-called frozen conflicts in the post-Soviet area, creating instability in the entire region. Despite many years of negotiations the separatist regime in Transdniestria continues blatantly to ignore any efforts made by the Moldovan Government, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and other countries, to oppress the local population and violate elementary human rights. By creating new obstacles to the process of removing ammunitions and weapons, the Transdniestrian separatist regime is putting at risk the fulfilment of the Istanbul OSCE Summit decision, which was reaffirmed by United Nations General Assembly resolution 55/179 concerning the withdrawal of all foreign forces and armaments from the territory of the Republic of Moldova by the end of this year. Another reason for our deep concern is the existence of a huge quantity of unregistered arms at the disposal of paramilitary units. At industrial sites of the former Soviet military complex in that region, the separatist authorities produce different types of weapons, which are delivered through third countries to other areas of conflict, thus assisting terrorist and criminal groups, as well as other separatist regimes. The considerable changes that have occurred recently in the international arena have highlighted the overwhelming role that the United Nations must play in order to consolidate democratic values and institutions and ensure peace and stability. My delegation fully supports the efforts made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan toward reforming our Organization. Some steps have been taken to revitalize the work of the General Assembly. The reform of the Security Council will make it more equitable and consistent with the expansion of the international community and will better reflect new realities. We support the expansion of permanent and non-permanent membership, so as to let those Member States that are willing and able, to better contribute to the maintenance of international peace and stability. The United Nations has also contributed to the economic and social development of my country. United Nations agencies and especially the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have actively participated in the implementation of many important programmes, thus finding lasting solutions to many challenges and helping our young democracy to 26 survive. We also commend the activity of UNICEF in Moldova for helping the newest generation of our citizens navigate through this difficult period of transition. In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to express my Government's warmest appreciation to the Secretary-General for the efforts he has exerted in order to maintain peace and security and for his outstanding contribution to promoting and fostering the role of the United Nations. The award of the centennial Nobel Peace Prize to the United Nations and its Secretary-General was highly welcomed all over the world. In this year's annual report on the work of the Organization the Secretary-General writes: “Developments during the past year have affirmed the Organization's increasing relevance in world affairs; but a review of the work of the Organization is also a reminder that much still needs to be done to achieve the aims and goals of the Charter and the Millennium Declaration.” (A/57/1; para. 230) Let us work even harder to ensure that the United Nations is able to meet the challenges of the twenty- first century. ﻿One year has gone by since the terrorist attack on the United States, which inflicted such deep wounds on the city that welcomes us today. By striking this city, this nation, this democracy, the terrorists intended to strike at the heart of the whole community of nations and peoples that embraces the United Nations and the values for which it stands. But they failed in their purpose. Instead, their barbarous acts roused in all of us a common will to respond. Rather than divide us, they united us. And united we intend to respond to every new threat to world security. The fight against terrorism is the crucial challenge we must face today in order to defend human values the values of freedom, peace, justice and development which we all share. The United Nations is at the forefront of this struggle. We know that it will be a long and hard battle, and we must therefore maintain the cohesion and determination that we have shown so far. But we are firmly convinced that this battle can be won. Yesterday President Bush recalled the responsibilities that we all share in this fight to defend freedom, which is the greatest good and that from which all other goods flow. Terrorism finds a breeding ground wherever there is no freedom, wherever there is no democracy, but where there is hunger, misery and despair. In order to defeat terrorism, we must globalize freedom and democracy. In order to eradicate terrorism, we must promote an economic development without borders a lasting development for all. My country has played a role in this struggle from the start and will continue to do so to the end, enhancing the military, financial, judicial, police and intelligence cooperation that has already achieved important results. But we are also working to eradicate poverty and disease. We are committed to pledging 0.39 per cent of our gross domestic product to less developed countries, and we intend to reach the level of 0.7 per cent. The African continent is crucial to our effort. It is a challenge to our conscience and represents a test of our ability to help its countries to participate in a true development without borders. The Group of Eight's action plan for Africa, launched in Genoa under Italy's presidency and approved in Canada, responds to the need for a new form of solidarity between the most industrialized countries and those which intend to become the owners of their future. But an increase in financial aid is no longer enough. At the Kananaskis summit, we presented an action plan aimed at achieving common standards of good governance, starting with our e-government' initiative, a completely computerized and digitalized universal model of public accounting and of public administration and its primary functions. The adoption of this universal model, which respects the identity, traditions and culture of each country, could produce several positive effects: clear and transparent public accounting; clear laws and regulations befitting the rule of law; more efficient services for citizens and businesses; greater efficiency in public administration; and, above all, greater democracy. This will spark a virtuous circle, and donor countries will finally have the certainty that their assistance is truly delivered to needy populations. In this respect, three phases were outlined at the Group of Eight meeting. In the first trial stage, the necessary assistance will be provided to the countries that wish to adopt this system. At the end of this phase, which might last three or four years, we can move on to a second phase in which the adoption of the universal system becomes a requirement for all countries that apply for development assistance. Finally, there could be a third phase in which we could ask the most industrialized countries to forge a 23 special partnership with specific countries, taking it upon themselves to implement specific projects. We are likewise convinced that public assistance should be supplemented by private assistance. At Kananaskis, we submitted an innovative proposal called de-tax', whereby private citizens would be able to allocate between 1 and 2 per cent of the price of what they buy to the implementation of specific projects, such as schools, hospitals or water-supply facilities in poor countries. At Genoa we also launched the Education for All' plan and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, to which Italy has pledged a substantial contribution. But the poorer countries also need to be relieved of the burden of their debt so as to free up the resources they need for their growth. That is why Italy has already cancelled $1 billion of debt and will soon cancel another $4 billion, until the complete write-off of all its credits. Our commitment to the United Nations is clear on all fronts. Italy is the sixth-largest contributor to the Organization's regular budget and one of the largest troop contributors. About 10,000 Italian soldiers are deployed throughout the world, from the Balkans to Afghanistan, to preserve and maintain peace and security. We will continue along that road, in our firm belief that there is no problem that we cannot solve if we are united in our determination. As we speak today, the main challenge to the United Nations and our system of values is posed by the regime that governs Iraq, which has systematically ignored all the resolutions of the United Nations. A response is indispensable to safeguard the international community from the danger posed by a massive build- up of weapons of mass destruction. As President Bush so clearly stated, what we must address today is precisely this repeated defiance of the United Nations and of the will of the international community. We must make use of all the diplomatic and political means available to address this situation. But if things do not change substantially, it will be necessary to act within the framework of the United Nations in order to safeguard global security from a real threat. The lesson we must draw from the events of 11 September is that haste can lead to carelessness, but delay in taking the necessary action can have terrible consequences. When terrorist attacks or threats to peace are carried out by networks or regimes that aim at destroying our way of life and our liberal democracies, then democracies have not only the right but also the duty to defend themselves. Let me now turn our attention to the Middle East. Italy supports the road map drawn up by the European Union, as well as the action of the quartet' and the rapid convening of an international conference to ensure the peaceful coexistence of two independent States within safe and secure borders. First of all, the spiral of violence must come to an end through the cessation of terrorist attacks. The holding of free and fair elections will advance the process of democratic reform of the Palestinian National Authority. But a lasting peace cannot be envisaged unless we narrow the economic gap between the Israelis and the Palestinians, giving the Palestinians realistic hope for jobs and development. With this goal in mind, Italy has presented a plan to rebuild and support the Palestinian economy. Italy has already offered to host the negotiations and the peace conference. We are men and women of peace. We are convinced that this new century cannot be left at the mercy of criminal folly and fanaticism. We are committed to the fight against terrorism, and we will do everything in our power to eradicate that evil and to defend our security and our future. We will lend our efforts to the building of a true and just peace, the only kind of peace for the just and the free.  ﻿I would like to begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, and to wish you success in your work. I would also like to thank Mr. Han Seung-soo for having so ably conducted the work of the fifty-sixth session. It is with special pleasure that I welcome the admission of the Swiss Confederation to the United Nations. That we have the pleasure and the opportunity to welcome such a new Member — a long-standing democracy which has only recently chosen to enter this forum — is continuing testimony to the vitality, viability and relevance of this unique body. This time last year, new States and old were thunderstruck by a terror that is still indescribable. We were reeling from the enormity of what terrorism had wrought, even as we sought to understand why it had happened. Millenniums of experience of the devastation of war had not provided us with the tools necessary to understand that new form of combat. Today, a year later, as we persevere with the arduous endeavour to eradicate the affliction, we also continue to search for causes. We distinguish, certainly, between comprehending and concurring, awareness and acquiescence, understanding and justification. At the same time, we recognize that diagnosis does not always result in a cure. We cannot go back to where we were a year ago, either in our assumptions or in our actions. The fundamental question we must all answer is: what is it that we can and cannot, should and should not, do to other human beings? The answer must include a rejection of flagrant injustice and abject poverty. That would go a long way towards alleviating the hopelessness that perpetuates such societal ills. Bearing that in mind, we welcome the targets and timetables adopted to spur action on a wide range of issues at the recently concluded World Summit on Sustainable Development. Critical among those goals is the need to provide and manage water as a basic element of life and a basic requirement for dignified living. Without that, neither economic nor political stability is possible. The other two major United Nations events of this year — the International Conference on Financing for Development and the special Assembly session on children — also demonstrate that social and economic development must be tackled in tandem in order to attain global peace and security. In Armenia, too, we are focusing on both aspects of development. The Armenian Government's poverty reduction strategy aims to establish an umbrella for the formulation and implementation of sustainable human development strategies in areas damaged by earthquakes and conflict. We shall do that by building domestic capacities for governance and by restoring social services in education and health, agricultural development, reforestation and disaster preparedness. Armenia's response to the very special session on children is the elaboration and implementation of its National Plan of Action for Children. The National Plan of Action sets 10-year goals for the protection of the rights of the child, outlines principal strategies, and establishes indicators and mechanisms for monitoring progress towards the enumerated goals. The past decades of summits and forums on the variety of social and economic ills that face modern societies have amply demonstrated that committed partnerships are necessary for serious progress. At home, Government and civil society must work together to implement the decisions of such forums, but, at the global level, Governments and international agencies must also provide the resources and impetus for their universal agendas. Economic prosperity hinges on internal, regional and international stability. That stability, in turn, depends on cooperation and goodwill. In our region, despite the existence of various conflicts, we continue to be hopeful that democratic processes will create civil societies with responsible leaders committed to the resolution of political issues. In Armenia, we look forward to a year of elections: presidential elections — the fourth held since 7 independence — will be followed by parliamentary elections, which in turn will be followed by a referendum on constitutional reforms. We are proud that we have had a working Constitution for more than seven years, and that that Constitution has seen us through difficult periods without leading to domestic turmoil. Nevertheless, we recognize the need — as in any evolving society — to make some changes in order to reflect more accurately our commitment to becoming a society that respects the rule of law and the rights of individuals. We are equally proud that the Armenians of Nagorny-Karabakh, in the midst of their ongoing struggle for self-determination, have also completed another presidential election cycle. Indeed, the people of Nagorny-Karabakh deserve to be commended for establishing the rule of law despite continuing adverse social and economic conditions. As the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Co-Chairmen of its Minsk Group continue to work with Armenia, Azerbaijan and Nagorny-Karabakh towards a settlement that will wisely — i.e. with an eye to the realities on the ground — determine Nagorny-Karabakh's final status, it is self-evident that only a democratically elected leadership that enjoys a popular mandate will be able to participate actively and legitimately in the final negotiations that affect the status of its own people. With that in mind, in 1992, at the Helsinki Meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, it was decided that elected and other representatives of Nagorny-Karabakh would be invited to the Minsk Conference, entrusted with determining the final status of Nagorny-Karabakh. Therefore, while elections and democratization do not presume a particular status, self-determination is always more legitimate when accompanied by democratic processes. The international community seems to understand, often welcomes and sometimes assists in electoral democratic processes in areas whose international legal status is still in flux and ostensibly subject to the sovereignty of an existing State. We do not understand why such wise and non-prejudicial approaches or strategies should be denied to Nagorny- Karabakh, where de facto self-rule has already been in place for almost 10 years. Democratization and self-determination become both necessary and inevitable when the formation of a new independent entity takes place inside States that are deficient in democracy and whose respect for human rights and application of United Nations principles is unsatisfactory. Nothing demonstrates that fact more than East Timor's forthcoming membership in this body. So it is with pleasure that we express to that country the heartfelt congratulations of the Armenian Government. East Timor's coming membership is proof that a blanket rejection of claims to self-determination is invalid and does not take into account the very real fact that such movements are not, by their nature, all alike or even similar. Different struggles for self-determination have evolved in decidedly different ways; therefore, each has to be treated differently. The challenge for the international community continues to be to adopt policies that will contribute to the peaceful solution of each conflict. In order to adopt correct policies, criteria must be established by which to evaluate and judge each case on its own merit, realistically taking into account the real situation on the ground in order to attain lasting peace. That peace is what the people of Nagorny- Karabakh and the whole region are still waiting for, and one would think that it is also what the leadership of Azerbaijan want. Based on the very hopeful meetings that are taking place between the Presidents of Armenia and Azerbaijan, we have reasons to be positive. However, having followed the comments that my colleague from Azerbaijan made this morning from this podium, I am not only shocked but also dismayed that he is not keeping pace with the progress being made in the region by the Presidents of both our countries. It has been two years since the meetings at Paris and Key West, where the international community put forth their views on this issue. Since then, some Azerbaijani officials, out of desperation or ignorance, have used every means at their disposal to discredit the initiatives of the international community, looking for ways to artificially link them to the critical issues of the day. After 11 September, the talk of the threat of international terrorism caused Azerbaijan to make accusations that went full circle in damaging its own reputation when, according to Western sources, Azerbaijan's own 10-year-long relationship with terrorists came to the surface and it was demonstrated 8 that Azerbaijan had indeed served as a regional terrorist hub. So that did not work. Today, as the international community speaks of countries' responsibilities under Security Council resolutions, Azerbaijan frivolously makes the same accusation against Armenia, without considering that Armenia has done exactly what the international community expected: it has used its good offices, with the leadership of Nagorny-Karabakh, to help find a peaceful solution to the conflict. Azerbaijan has a choice: continue with crude delusional manipulation and naive wishful thinking and hope for a return to a historical military and political situation that ended long ago, or join the international community, through the good offices of the Co- Chairmen of the OSCE's Minsk Group, in order to continue in the difficult search for peace. The people on the ground on all sides have demonstrated their readiness for peace and for political and economic stability. Leaders at the highest level are maintaining the honest dialogue that will chip away at political obstacles. We who are entrusted with transforming those efforts and desires into a just peace must approach our task honestly and responsibly. Let me say that Nagorny-Karabakh has never, ever been a part of independent Azerbaijan. Whether we consider history or geography, whether we adopt a long-term political perspective or face the reality of the facts on the ground, the men, women and children of Nagorny-Karabakh have earned the right to live peacefully on their historic lands. I wish to take this opportunity to reiterate President Kocharian's statement before the General Assembly two years ago with respect to working for the recognition of the Armenian genocide and preventing the repetition of such an atrocity. We extend our profound appreciation to all those Governments, legislatures and international bodies that have recognized the Armenian genocide and pledge our cooperation to all those that are currently in the process of reaffirming the facts of that crime against humanity. As a signatory of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the Armenian Government places a high priority on the struggle to prevent future genocide and to stand up against all attempts to deny past genocide. We support all initiatives that reinforce the international consensus behind that landmark treaty. It is becoming clear that this millennium, too, will not be violence-free. Today, when global peace appears a distant hope, Armenia observes the volatility in the Caucasus, the Middle East and elsewhere with trepidation. To face such challenges, Armenia supports proposals by the Secretary-General aimed at the strengthening of the Organization so that it can face new challenges in a more satisfactory way. Additionally, Armenia is in favour of more equitable representation on the Security Council, as well as more transparency in its activities. The situation in the Middle East, in Afghanistan and around Iraq remains a continuing example of the need for a vibrant and strengthened United Nations able to assert the will of the Organization's membership and empowered with greater authority to implement its decisions. As States and Governments continue to search for new ways to deal with emerging internal conflicts and increasingly complex interrelationships, Armenia is of the belief that the United Nations must stand for all the easy-to-orate but difficult-to-deliver principles of economic and political justice and equality among peoples. Given our uneven history and problematic geography, it is no surprise that Armenia is an advocate of multilateralism and collective security. From the vantage point of a country with our resources and limitations, we realize that peace is not possible without social justice, sustainable development and respect for the rights of all individuals and peoples in the community of nations.  ﻿A year ago, the General Assembly had to be postponed because of the ruthless crime committed on 11 September. There was then a worldwide wave of solidarity towards the people of the United States and, particularly, towards the families of the almost 3,000 innocent victims of that unjustifiable terrorist attack. The conditions were created for setting up a genuine international alliance under the auspices and leadership of the United Nations, with absolute respect for the purposes and principles enshrined in its Charter. Nearly all countries, above and beyond ideological, political, cultural and religious differences, expressed our willingness to collaborate actively with this endeavour of unmistakable common interest. However, another vision was imposed. In an unusual fashion, it was stated that whoever did not support the war decided upon by a single country would then be on the side of terrorism. It was even announced to the Security Council that that country reserved the right to launch future attacks on its own against other nations. A unilateral war was then unleashed, whose death toll is still unknown to us and whose most tangible consequence is probably the blow to the credibility of the United Nations and to multilateralism as a means to cope with the complex challenges currently ahead of us. What is the outcome today? There are greater feelings of hatred, vengeance and insecurity, which are not helpful in the fight against terrorism. Dangerous xenophobic and discriminatory tendencies threaten the existence of a plural and democratic world. There has been a step backward in the field of public freedoms and civil rights. In the meantime, there is a lack of political will by certain powers to rigorously apply, without selectivity and without double standards, the 12 existing international legal instruments on terrorism. In addition, no advances have been made in the definition, so indispensable today, of State terrorism. For its part, Cuba — a victim of terrorist acts for over four decades, which stated its opinions in the Assembly with poise and firmness and unwaveringly condemned the crime of September 11 and terrorism as such, but which also opposed the war out of ethical considerations and the respect for international law — signed and ratified the 12 international conventions to combat terrorism and adopted a national law to fight this scourge. It has cooperated fully with the work of the committee set up for such purposes by the Security Council and, at the bilateral level, it proposed to the United States Government the adoption of a programme to combat terrorism, which was, incomprehensibly, rejected by that Government. Until today, and despite the fact that it has not developed and has no intention ever to develop nuclear weapons, Cuba has not been a State party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, for it is an insufficient and discriminatory instrument allowing the establishment of a club of nuclear powers without any concrete disarmament commitments. However, as a signal of the clear political will of the Cuban Government and its commitment to an effective disarmament process that ensures world peace, our country has decided to adhere to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In doing so, we reaffirm our hope that all nuclear weapons will finally be totally eliminated under strict international verification. 20 In addition, and despite the fact that the only nuclear power in the Americas pursues a policy of hostility towards Cuba that does not rule out the use of force, Cuba will also ratify the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean, known as the Treaty of Tlatelolco, that was signed by our country in 1995. On a day like today, I would like to repeat Cuba's remarks at the last session of the General Assembly: “Only under the leadership of the United Nations will we be able to defeat terrorism. Cooperation, and not war, is the way. The coordination of actions, and not imposition ... is the method. ... “Cuba reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all of its forms and manifestations. Cuba reiterates that it will not allow its territory ever to be used for terrorist acts against the people of the United States or of any other country.” (A/56/PV.50, pp. 21 and 22) Why have we not seen the same zeal with which the war in Afghanistan was unleashed in the search for a just and lasting solution for peace in the Middle East? Why have some refrained from uttering even a single word to condemn the aggressions against the territory of Palestine and the crimes against its people? Why has there not been any condemnation of the selective assassinations and the use of the armed forces against the civilian population? Why are there assurances of impunity for the actions of the Israeli army, thus tying the hands of the Security Council? Why have there not been any firm actions to implement the Security Council resolutions that ensure the proclamation of an independent and sovereign Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as its capital? Why is the only superpower on the planet acting differently from one case to the other? Why is there no end to the suffering of the Palestinian mothers whose children are also murdered, like the innocent people on 11 September? These questions should be answered by those who in this Hall carry upon their shoulders the responsibility for what is currently happening in the occupied Palestinian and Arab territories. A new war against Iraq already seems inevitable; an aggravation of the situation of constant aggression that that people has lived in over the last ten years. The buzzword now is “pre-emptive war”, in open violation of the spirit and the letter of the United Nations Charter. Cuba defends principles, not expedience. Therefore, although its supporters may feel upset, it emphatically opposes this war. Cuba is not driven by an anti-American spirit, even when its Government maintains and strengthens a 40-year-old blockade against our people. But refraining from telling the truth out of cowardice or political calculation is not characteristic of Cuban revolutionaries. Therefore, Cuba hereby states that it opposes a new military action against Iraq. It does so while recalling that at one point it supported the Security Council resolution asking the Iraqi Government to end the occupation of Kuwait. We believe that the development of weapons of mass destruction today would be insane, because the only possible way that we envision for world peace is through general and complete disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, and the rechannelling of the money currently spent on weapons to address the dire socio-economic problems of humankind. The Arab countries have been emphatic in their rejection of this war, and most European countries do not approve of it. The international community is increasingly concerned about the announcement of a new war on the basis of unconfirmed allegations and disregarding the obvious reality that Iraq cannot pose a danger to the United States. If the United States Government unleashes a new war against Iraq, either by imposing it on the Security Council or by deciding upon it unilaterally in opposition to international public opinion, we will bear witness to the emergence of a century of unilateralism and the forced retirement of the United Nations. It will then seem that the cold war years — with its distant memory of bipolarism, mistakes and contradictions — were not as futile and perilous as the era that is now inexorably looming over the world. The United Nations has to be saved. Cuba defends the need both for its preservation and for its most profound reform and democratization, but all this must be accomplished through respect for its Charter and not by rewriting it or distorting its purposes and principles. The General Assembly must ultimately be allowed to play the role laid down for it in the Charter. The Security Council has to be rescued from the disrepute and doubts that are so rightly weighing it 21 down, so that it may become a truly representative body. I am talking about the presence of the third world and not about military power as a justification for membership of a democratic body; I am talking about eliminating the veto and other antidemocratic practices from a transparent body; and I am talking about putting an end to the secret conspiracies and to the substantive decisions made in private by a mere few and then imposed on the rest. Today, when it is more threatened than ever, Cuba strongly defends the need to preserve multilateralism in international relations. That is why we have witnessed in frustration the disappointing completion of the negotiations for the establishment of the International Criminal Court, which Cuba supported on the understanding that it would be a truly impartial, non- selective, efficient and independent body to complement national justice systems. To use the Security Council as a tool to amend de facto the international treaty that gave birth to the Court, or to impose upon others humiliating bilateral agreements, compelling them to violate their international obligations deriving from that instrument, is not only arrogant, but also irresponsible. The International Criminal Court now vaunted is not the body that we need and have fought for, subject as it is to hegemonic political interests and already a potential victim of manipulation, and bound from its inception to the decisions of a permanent member of the Security Council. What real international justice can be expected of a body that lacks a definition of the crime of aggression or that will receive instructions from the Security Council either to call off or to postpone a trial indefinitely at the request of one of its permanent members? Who can guarantee that the Court will not end up becoming an instrument at the service of interventionism and domination by the most powerful countries? Cuba reiterates here today what it expressed at the recent Johannesburg Summit: a reworking of international financial institutions is called for. A legitimate replacement for the International Monetary Fund is called for. It is essential that the work of the World Bank be aimed at supporting the genuine exercise by over 130 third world countries of their right to development. It is essential that the United Nations system be provided with new financial resources to fight poverty, underdevelopment, disease and famine. It is essential that the World Trade Organization be rescued from the interests of a handful of rich and powerful countries and transformed into an instrument at the service of a fair and equitable international trading system. The meagre results derived from the Monterrey and Johannesburg conferences and the justified wave of annoyance and uncertainty in their wake once again raise the issue of the lack of political will by the major industrialized Powers to relinquish a portion of their privileges in order to produce a real change in the unfair and unsustainable world order that is currently visiting impoverishment and hopelessness upon two thirds of the planet's population. I recognize that Cuba's remarks may not be accepted by some in this Hall. I even understand that they could be interpreted as a tirade against a country in particular. However, that is not the reason. Words must be used to uphold the truth and that is what Cuba has done and will always do. We are a small, noble people that long ago proclaimed that, for all Cubans, “motherland is humankind”.  ﻿We meet one year and one day after a terrorist attack brought grief to my country and brought grief to many citizens of our world. Yesterday, we remembered the innocent lives taken that terrible morning. Today we turn to the urgent duty of protecting other lives without illusion and without fear. We have accomplished much in the last year — in Afghanistan and beyond. We have much yet to do — in Afghanistan and beyond. Many nations represented here have joined in the fight against global terror, and the people of the United States are grateful. The United Nations was born in the hope that survived a world war — the hope of a world moving towards justice, escaping old patterns of conflict and fear. The founding Members resolved that the peace of the world must never again be destroyed by the will and the wickedness of any man. We created the United Nations Security Council so that, unlike the League of Nations, our deliberations would be more than talk, our resolutions would be more than wishes. After generations of deceitful dictators, broken treaties and squandered lives, we dedicated ourselves to standards of human dignity, shared by all, and to a system of security defended by all. Today, these standards, and this security, are challenged. Our commitment to human dignity is challenged by persistent poverty and raging disease. The suffering is great, and our responsibilities are clear. The United States is joining with the world to supply aid where it reaches people and lifts up lives, to extend trade and the prosperity it brings, and to bring medical care where it is desperately needed. As a symbol of our commitment to human dignity, the United States will return to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). This organization has been reformed, and America will participate fully in its mission to advance human rights, tolerance and learning. Our common security is challenged by regional conflicts — ethnic and religious strife that is ancient, but not inevitable. In the Middle East, there can be no peace for either side without freedom for both sides. America stands committed to an independent and democratic Palestine, living side by side with Israel in peace and security. Like all other people, Palestinians deserve a government that serves their interests and listens to their voices. My nation will continue to encourage all parties to step up to their responsibilities as we seek a just and comprehensive settlement to the conflict. Above all, our principles and our security are challenged today by outlaw groups and regimes that accept no law of morality and have no limit to their violent ambitions. In the attacks on America a year ago, we saw the destructive intentions of our enemies. This threat hides within many nations, including my own. In cells and camps, terrorists are plotting further destruction and are building new bases for their war against civilization. And our greatest fear is that terrorists will find a shortcut to their mad ambitions when an outlaw regime supplies them with the technologies enabling them to kill on a massive scale. In one place, in one regime, we find all these dangers, in their most lethal and aggressive forms — exactly the kind of aggressive threat the United Nations was born to confront. Twelve years ago, Iraq invaded Kuwait without provocation. And the regime's forces were poised to continue their march to seize other countries and their resources. Had Saddam Hussein been appeased instead of stopped, he would have endangered the peace and stability of the world. Yet, this aggression was stopped by the might of coalition forces and the will of the United Nations. In order to suspend hostilities and to spare himself, Iraq's dictator accepted a series of commitments. The terms were clear to him, and to all. And he agreed to prove that he is complying with every one of those obligations. He has proven instead only his contempt for the United Nations and for all his pledges. By breaking every pledge, by his deceptions and by his cruelties, Saddam Hussein has made the case against himself. In 1991, Security Council resolution 688 (1991) demanded that the Iraqi regime cease at once the repression of its own people, including the systematic repression of minorities, which the Council said, “threaten[ed] international peace and security in the region”. This demand goes ignored. Last year, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights found that Iraq continues to commit extremely grave violations of human rights and that the regime's repression is all pervasive. Tens of thousands of political opponents and 7 ordinary citizens have been subjected to arbitrary arrest and imprisonment, summary execution, and torture by beating, burning, electric shock, starvation, mutilation and rape. Wives are tortured in front of their husbands; children in the presence of their parents; and all of these horrors are concealed from the world by the apparatus of a totalitarian State. In 1991, the United Nations Security Council, through its resolutions 686 (1991) and 687 (1991), demanded that Iraq return all prisoners from Kuwait and other lands. Iraq's regime agreed. It broke this promise. Last year the Secretary-General's high-level coordinator for this issue reported that Kuwaiti, Saudi, Indian, Syrian, Lebanese, Iranian, Egyptian, Bahraini, and Omani nationals remain unaccounted for — more than 600 people. One American pilot is among them. In 1991, the United Nations Security Council, through resolution 687 (1991), demanded that Iraq renounce all involvement with terrorism and permit no terrorist organizations to operate in Iraq. Iraq's regime agreed. It broke this promise. In violation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), Iraq continues to shelter and support terrorist organizations that direct violence against Iran, Israel, and Western Governments. Iraqi dissidents abroad are targeted for murder. In 1993, Iraq attempted to assassinate the Emir of Kuwait and a former American President. Iraq's Government openly praised the attacks of 11 September. Al-Qaida terrorists have escaped from Afghanistan and are known to be in Iraq. In 1991, the Iraqi regime agreed to destroy and to stop developing all weapons of mass destruction and long-range missiles, and to prove to the world it has done so by complying with rigorous inspections. Iraq has broken every aspect of this fundamental pledge. From 1991 to 1995, the Iraqi regime said it had no biological weapons. After a senior official in its weapons program defected and exposed this lie, the regime admitted to producing tens of thousands of litres of anthrax and other deadly biological agents for use in Scud missile warheads, aerial bombs and aircraft spray tanks. United Nations inspectors believe Iraq has produced two to four times the amount of biological agents it declared and has failed to account for more than three metric tons of material that could be used to produce biological weapons. Right now, Iraq is expanding and improving facilities that were used for the production of biological weapons. United Nations inspections also reveal that Iraq likely maintains stockpiles of VX, mustard and other chemical agents, and that the regime is rebuilding and expanding facilities capable of producing chemical weapons. And in 1995, after four years of deception, Iraq finally admitted that it had had a crash nuclear weapons programme prior to the Gulf war. We know now that, were it not for that war, the regime in Iraq would likely have possessed a nuclear weapon no later than 1993. Today, Iraq continues to withhold important information about its nuclear programme: weapons design, procurement logs, experiment data, an accounting of nuclear materials and documentation of foreign assistance. Iraq employs capable nuclear scientists and technicians. It retains physical infrastructure needed to build a nuclear weapon. Iraq has made several attempts to buy high-strength aluminium tubes used to enrich uranium for a nuclear weapon. Should Iraq acquire fissile material, it would be able to build a nuclear weapon within a year. And Iraq's State-controlled media have reported numerous meetings between Saddam Hussein and his nuclear scientists, leaving little doubt about his continued appetite for these weapons. Iraq also possesses a force of Scud-type missiles with ranges beyond the 150 kilometres permitted by the United Nations. Work at testing and production facilities shows that Iraq is building more long-range missiles that can inflict mass death throughout the region. In 1990, after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, the world imposed economic sanctions on Iraq. Those sanctions were maintained after the war to compel the regime's compliance with Security Council resolutions. In time, Iraq was allowed to use oil revenues to buy food. Saddam Hussein has subverted that programme, working around the sanctions to buy missile technology and military materials. He blames the suffering of Iraq's people on the United Nations, even as he uses his oil wealth to build lavish palaces for himself and to buy arms for his country. By refusing to comply with his own agreements, he bears full guilt for the hunger and misery of innocent Iraqi citizens. In 1991, Iraq promised United Nations inspectors immediate and unrestricted access to verify Iraq's commitment to rid itself of weapons of mass 8 destruction and long-range missiles. Iraq broke that promise, spending seven years deceiving, evading and harassing United Nations inspectors before ceasing cooperation entirely. Just months after the 1991 ceasefire, the Security Council twice renewed its demand that the Iraqi regime cooperate fully with inspectors, condemning Iraq's serious violations of its obligations. The Security Council again renewed that demand in 1994 and twice more in 1996, deploring Iraq's clear violations of its obligations. The Security Council renewed its demand three more times in 1997, citing flagrant violations, and three more times in 1998, calling Iraq's behaviour totally unacceptable. And in 1999, the demand was renewed yet again. As we meet today, it has been almost four years since the last United Nations inspector set foot in Iraq — four years for the Iraqi regime to plan and to build and to test behind the cloak of secrecy. We know that Saddam Hussein pursued weapons of mass murder even when inspectors were in his country. Are we to assume that he stopped when they left? The history, the logic and the facts lead to one conclusion. Saddam Hussein's regime is a grave and gathering danger. To suggest otherwise is to hope against the evidence. To assume this regime's good faith is to bet the lives of millions and the peace of the world in a reckless gamble. And that is a risk we must not take. We have been more than patient. We have tried sanctions. We have tried the carrot of oil-for-food and the stick of coalition military strikes. But Saddam Hussein has defied all those efforts and continues to develop weapons of mass destruction. The first time we may be completely certain he has nuclear weapons is when, God forbid, he uses one. We owe it to all our citizens to do everything in our power to prevent that day from coming. The conduct of the Iraqi regime is a threat to the authority of the United Nations and a threat to peace. Iraq has answered a decade of United Nations demands with a decade of defiance. All the world now faces a test and the United Nations a difficult and defining moment. Are Security Council resolutions to be honoured and enforced or cast aside without consequence? Will the United Nations serve the purpose of its founding, or will it be irrelevant? The United States helped found the United Nations. We want the United Nations to be effective and respected and successful. We want the resolutions of the world's most important multilateral body to be enforced, and right now those resolutions are being unilaterally subverted by the Iraqi regime. Our partnership of nations can meet the test before us by making clear what we now expect of the Iraqi regime. If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will immediately and unconditionally forswear, disclose and remove or destroy all weapons of mass destruction, long-range missiles and all related material. If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will immediately end all support for terrorism and act to suppress it, as all States are required to do by Security Council resolutions. If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will cease persecution of its civilian population, including Shia, Sunnis, Kurds, Turkomans and others — again, as required by Security Council resolutions. If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will release or account for all Gulf war personnel whose fate is still unknown. It will return the remains of any who are deceased, return stolen property, accept liability for losses resulting from the invasion of Kuwait and fully cooperate with international efforts to resolve those issues, as required by Security Council resolutions. If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will immediately end all illicit trade outside the oil-for-food programme. It will accept United Nations administration of funds from that programme, to ensure that the money is used fairly and promptly for the benefit of the Iraqi people. If all those steps are taken, it will signal a new openness and accountability in Iraq. And it could open the prospect of the United Nations helping to build a Government that represents all Iraqis — a Government based on respect for human rights, economic liberty and internationally supervised elections. The United States has no quarrel with the Iraqi people. They have suffered too long in silent captivity. Liberty for the Iraqi people is a great moral cause and a great strategic goal. The people of Iraq deserve it. The security of all nations requires it. Free societies do not intimidate through cruelty and conquest, and open societies do not threaten the world with mass murder. The United States supports political and economic liberty in a unified Iraq. 9 We can harbour no illusions, and that is important today to remember. Saddam Hussein attacked Iran in 1980 and Kuwait in 1990. He has fired ballistic missiles at Iran and Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Israel. His regime once ordered the killing of every person between the ages of 15 and 70 in certain Kurdish villages in northern Iraq. He has gassed many Iranians and 40 Iraqi villages. My nation will work with the Security Council to meet our common challenge. If Iraq's regime defies us again, the world must move deliberately and decisively to hold Iraq to account. We will work with the Security Council for the necessary resolutions. But the purposes of the United States should not be doubted. The Security Council resolutions will be enforced, and the just demands of peace and security will be met, or action will be unavoidable, and a regime that has lost its legitimacy will also lose its power. Events can turn in one of two ways. If we fail to act in the face of danger, the people of Iraq will continue to live in brutal submission. The regime will have new power to bully, dominate and conquer its neighbours, condemning the Middle East to more years of bloodshed and fear. The region will remain unstable, with little hope of freedom, and isolated from the progress of our times. With every step the Iraqi regime takes towards gaining and deploying the most terrible weapons, our own options to confront that regime will narrow. And if an emboldened regime were to supply these weapons to terrorist allies, then the attacks of 11 September would be a prelude to far greater horrors. If we meet our responsibilities, if we overcome this danger, we can arrive at a very different future. The people of Iraq can shake off their captivity. They can one day join a democratic Afghanistan and a democratic Palestine, inspiring reforms throughout the Muslim world. These nations can show by their example that honest government, respect for women, and the great Islamic tradition of learning can triumph in the Middle East and beyond. We will show that the promise of the United Nations can be fulfilled in our time. Neither of these outcomes is certain. Both have been set before us. We must choose between a world of fear and a world of progress. We cannot stand by and do nothing while dangers gather. We must stand up for our security and for the permanent rights and hopes of mankind. By heritage and by choice, the United States of America will make that stand. Representatives to the United Nations have the power to make that stand as well.  