The people of Tuvalu, on whose behalf I have the honour to speak, wish me first of all to convey their warmest greetings to the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We express congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election. Coming from a small island country as well, we hold your election in high regard and wish you success in your presidency. We also commend the outgoing President, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his excellent leadership in the General Assembly this past year. A year ago, we reflected on the events of 11 September 2001. On the eve of this session, we were horrified yet again by the brutal terrorist attacks on the United Nations in Iraq, which killed some of the Organization's finest, including its Special Envoy, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. Tuvalu strongly condemns those acts and has joined in the great number of condolences to the Secretary-General, to his staff and to the families of the victims. The recent wave of terror attacks and the havoc they have created worldwide have instilled a sense of fear and uncertainty. They have not only proved the existence of forces bent on destroying the very foundation of the United Nations, they have also underscored the urgency with which we must collectively combat those forces. As a small island developing country, Tuvalu's greatest fear is that, in the wake of such events, developed countries will lack the resolve to address as well the developmental and environmental issues that are so fundamental to lasting international peace and security. In Tuvalu, and the Pacific in general, our isolation, fragmentation and lack of infrastructure and manpower leave us vulnerable to terrorism. This threatens our security, especially the security of our traditional and cultural practices upon which our very existence depends. Likewise, this also threatens the security of the world. We are therefore grateful for the anti-terrorism efforts of the United Nations in cooperation with the Pacific Islands Forum and through direct contact with national authorities. For our part, I am pleased to say that Tuvalu is committed to acceding to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its three protocols, as well as United Nations conventions against terrorism, including the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. In this spirit, we are also committed to regional security arrangements, as set out by the Pacific Islands Forum. But to fulfil our international obligations on anti- terrorism, we need technical and financial assistance. More importantly, capacity-building through appropriate education and human development, for which we seek the support of the international community, is vitally important to strengthen our resilience in the face of such vulnerabilities. Conflict prevention is vital to national, regional and world peace. Tuvalu shares the view that conflicts are best resolved through dialogue and mutual understanding of the root causes. The United Nations must continue to address the underlying causes of conflicts and be the common forum where nations resolve their differences. Attempts to resolve conflicts by unilateral means outside the United Nations inevitably result in ongoing mistrust and instability. The stakes are too high to allow this to happen. We must continue to engage in constructive dialogue. Let me briefly speak on a related matter. Each year, highly radioactive and toxic material passes through the Pacific by ship on its way to and from north Asia and Europe. It is known that some of the materials are weapons-grade. We are concerned about 22 these shipments because of the massive threat they pose to the Pacific Ocean a vital source of our livelihoods and economic development. We would like these shipments to cease for the sake of the inhabitants of the islands and stability of the broader Pacific basin. We believe the United Nations has a very important peacekeeping role to play, and are therefore grateful for the progress made by the United Nations in restoring peace in Bougainville, Papua New Guinea. We hope that the United Nations will continue its support there, to ensure meaningful opportunities and peace for the people of Bougainville. Tuvalu noted, however, the manner in which the United Nations has handled the conflict in the Solomon Islands. As a small island and a least developed country, similarly susceptible to instability, we strongly feel that the United Nations must better respond to Member States' concerns, irrespective of political affiliations. The United Nations is a body for all nations, and all nations should be afforded the assistance required of it. In the same spirit, Tuvalu places significant importance on the need to treat everybody equally, as enshrined in the Charter. Accordingly, Tuvalu believes that to deny representation at the United Nations to the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan, who are active and responsible participants in world affairs, especially in trade, commerce and international development, is unjust and morally wrong. Their significant contributions to technology and their own need for access to international support to combat the challenges of terrorism and health epidemics such as HIV/AIDS and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) cannot be continually ignored. In our view the United Nations, which prides itself on the protection of fundamental human rights, including the right to self-determination, and which upholds the dignity and worth of the human being, cannot continue to turn a blind eye to ignore the obvious realities of the situation. Just as the people of Taiwan have so responsibly contributed to international development, they also need the support of the international community. Their continuing isolation could potentially give rise to serious conflicts. Tuvalu would therefore like to call on this august body to seriously and urgently consider the issue of membership of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the United Nations and its agencies. On 1 October, Tuvalu will mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of its independence. On reflection, we are grateful for the support of the international community, particularly from Tuvalu's traditional development and regional partners over the past quarter century. Guided by the principles of good governance, respect for the rule of law and human rights, democracy and self- determination, to which we are deeply committed, and with the help of such support, Tuvalu has been able to prosper and enjoy a peaceful and equal coexistence with the rest of the world. Our future survival as a nation is founded on these basic United Nations values. Despite relative stability, we live in constant fear of the adverse impact of climate change. For a coral- atoll nation, sea level rise and more severe weather events loom as a growing threat to our entire population. The threat is real and serious, and we liken it to a slow and insidious form of terrorism against us. In this respect, Tuvalu is actively participating in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, and we are extremely grateful to all the nations that have joined us in resolving this threat. Nevertheless, we are deeply dismayed that key industrialized nations do not share our concern. Climate change affects all nations. This is not just a problem for small island States like our own. We believe that all nations must take positive steps to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. But we also believe that the industrialized world must act first. It is the emissions from the past that are creating the problems of today. Steps must be taken to account for and redress the emissions of the past. We implore all nations to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, as this is the only appropriate process that will bring about effective collective action to resolve this growing threat. As Tuvalu moves into the twenty-first century, we are also challenged by the many changes that are taking place in the world, especially those brought about by globalization. Never before have we faced such complex challenges. Yet, for Tuvalu and others like us, while we witness every day the forces of trade, communications and travel creating a single global community, the problems of poverty, marginalization and environmental decline continue to plague many parts of the world. The recent breakdown in discussions on international trade in Cancun, Mexico, clearly shows 23 that we live in a very complex world. If nothing else, the Cancun meeting was a significant step forward for the voice of the developing world. No longer are the developing nations willing to accept the rhetoric of those who want to impose a trade regime that tends to favour the wealthy and marginalize the poor. Tuvalu and many island States are in a particularly weak position to take advantage of the opportunities presented by globalization. There is a genuine need to better recognize the special case of small island developing States and of their need to participate in a more equitable globalized world. Sustainable development, particularly for the most disadvantaged and vulnerable States, especially for small island least developed countries is crucial. Of course, we recognize that the primary responsibility for sustainable development rests with each country, on its own terms. However, as a poorly resourced small island least developed countries, even the best efforts to escape the cycle of poverty and marginalization are doomed without the support of the international community, civil society and the private sector. Tuvalu and those like us are encouraged by the commitment of the international community to addressing poverty and development challenges, as contained in the Millennium Development Goals, Millennium Declaration and other various United Nations development frameworks. But these will remain mere rhetoric unless they translate into real development that can make a difference on the ground. In that regard, proper and effective implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States is crucial for the development of countries like Tuvalu. To that end, conducting a full and comprehensive review of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action in the lead up to the International Meeting in Mauritius next year is imperative. We kindly request the United Nations Secretariat to undertake this analysis as a matter of high priority so that we can learn from the past and move forward in a more positive way. That said, however, the overall decline in official development assistance in real terms is cause for serious concern. Despite pledges at the Monterrey Conference, major industrialized nations are not fulfilling the minimum target of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product. For small island States, that reluctance translates into lower economic growth, as well as into widening the gap between the least developed countries and the industrialized nations. Tuvalu therefore appeals to the donor countries to make serious efforts to meet the United Nations minimum official development assistance target to enable the least developed countries to attain a better quality of life for all their peoples. In conclusion, for atoll island States like Tuvalu, efforts aimed at sustainable development, peace and security will be meaningless unless the issue of climate change is addressed with urgency. As has been warned by the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change in its Third Assessment Report, the threat of global warming and rising sea levels is serious business. Addressing these threats requires a global effort by both industrialized and developing countries, consistent with the objectives of, and the commitments made in, the Framework Convention on Climate Change. Again, Tuvalu's interest in enforcing the Kyoto Protocol is not self-serving. The consequences of not urgently enforcing Kyoto will be felt everywhere around the world. Tuvalu appeals to the countries that can make the difference to ratify the Kyoto Protocol as a matter of urgency. As we in Tuvalu celebrate our Silver Jubilee anniversary, and as we look forward into the future, it is our hope that out of this great Hall there will emerge better understanding and good will, to further solidify the foundation upon which the long- lasting security and survival of Tuvalu and many others is built and for peace in the world.  ﻿I should like at the outset to congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte on his election to the high post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I should also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his professionalism and very fruitful work at the helm of the General Assembly during the previous session. Three years ago here at United Nations Headquarters we solemnly adopted the Millennium Declaration, which embodied our hopes and expectations for a more secure and just world. Shortly thereafter, however, the world had to face new and daunting challenges. Unfortunately, the tragic events of 11 September 2001 were not the last in a sequence of horrible acts of terror. Just last month, on 19 August, the United Nations suffered irreplaceable losses in Iraq. With a feeling of deep sorrow, I bow my head in memory of the United Nations staff who lost their lives. We lost excellent, talented and dedicated people, among them the Head of the United Nations Mission in Iraq, the outstanding Brazilian diplomat Sergio Vieira de Mello. It is a sad and disturbing fact that during recent years United Nations staff have been facing growing insecurity. This makes it all the more urgent for all members of the international community to fully comply with the relevant international treaties, first and foremost, the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. As one of the initiators of that Convention, Ukraine decisively calls upon all States that have not yet done so to accede to the treaty. Our country joined the anti-terrorist coalition at the very outset and has made a significant contribution to its activities. We are determined to remain in the ranks of the coalition until international terrorism as a global threat can be taken off the world's agenda. I believe, however, that not everything has been done to date to prevent terrorist activities. I have in mind first of all effective measures to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Ukraine unreservedly stands for a comprehensive strengthening of the system of universal 9 international treaties aimed at preventing the nuclear threat. An effective response to new challenges requires urgent action to reform the United Nations, first and foremost the Security Council. I am confident that further delay in the long-overdue reforms could result in a serious crisis of confidence for the United Nations. We cannot let that happen. There can be no viable alternative to the United Nations as a unique global Organization. As for the task of reforming the United Nations, we must admit that today there are more questions than there are answers. In this context, the successful reforms in the area of United Nations activities for peacekeeping and conflict prevention can serve as a good example for all of us. In many situations of armed conflict, the United Nations now acts flexibly, rapidly and effectively. I am pleased to note that over the past several years Ukraine has been playing a leading role among the countries contributing troops to United Nations peacekeeping operations. I believe that conflict prevention should become a key element of the philosophy of the work of the United Nations in the new millennium. Ukraine fully supports the Secretary-General's efforts aimed at strengthening that component of United Nations activities. In my address at the Millennium Summit, I stressed the need for the international community to elaborate a comprehensive strategy on conflict prevention. In my opinion, peacekeeping operations with a preventive mandate from the Security Council could become one of the key instruments of such a system. We also need to further develop and improve the principles and mechanisms relating to the application of international sanctions aimed at curbing the supply of weapons to conflict zones. With regard to the situation in Iraq, I would like to express confidence that the tragic losses in Baghdad will not diminish the international community's commitment to providing support to the Iraqi people for the renewal of their country. The sense of common responsibility for the destiny of the long-suffering Iraqi nation and for peace and security in that region was the imperative that guided our decision to dispatch a military contingent to the Persian Gulf. I hope that the adoption by the Security Council of a resolution on the establishment of an international force for the maintenance of peace and security in Iraq under the auspices of the United Nations will enable as many countries as possible to join those efforts. After many months of a slide towards the abyss, a truly historic opportunity arose for achieving peace in the Middle East. Last May, the United Nations International Meeting in Support of Middle East Peace was held in Kiev at the initiative of Ukraine. It became, in effect, the first international forum at which the road map put forward by the Quartet gained the support of a large number of States Members of the United Nations. We sincerely hope that the resumption of the Israeli- Palestinian peace dialogue will not be blocked by obstacles created by the current controversies. Ukraine shares the concern expressed in the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration that the international community is not paying sufficient attention to trying to resolve the chronic global development problems such as poverty, the HIV/AIDS pandemic, environment pollution and other issues. Despite repeated declarations primarily by the developed countries of their readiness to increase the volume of financial and other assistance to tackle issues of sustainable development, the actual efforts that have been undertaken have not been sufficient for the timely attainment of the goals set forth in the Millennium Declaration. In this context, I would like to recall that Ukraine made a tangible contribution towards a peaceful and safe world in the twenty-first century by renouncing its nuclear arsenal one of the most powerful on Earth and by decommissioning the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. In assuming the burden of the large-scale effort to transform the area of the catastrophe into an ecologically safe zone and to resolve unprecedented economic, social and humanitarian problems, we relied upon the understanding and support of the entire international community. Today, welcoming the work of this Organization and its Member States with regard to the implementation of the United Nations strategy on Chernobyl, I express the hope that more decisive steps will be taken in support of our efforts. I am confident that the adoption of a resolution on this question at the current session of the General Assembly will provide additional impetus for our cooperation on the Chernobyl issue. 10 Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the participants of this meeting to one other matter. Seventy years ago the totalitarian Soviet regime engineered an artificial famine in Ukraine, which claimed the lives of between 7 million and 10 million of our compatriots. Unfortunately, the world did not respond to our tragedy back in 1933. The international community believed the cynical propaganda of the Soviet Union, which was selling bread abroad while, in Ukraine, hunger was killing 17 people every minute. From this rostrum, I should like to call upon all Members to support Ukraine's initiative that the United Nations pay tribute to the memory of those who perished. We do not want to settle scores from the past; we simply want as many people as possible to learn about our tragedy. That knowledge will help us to avoid similar catastrophes in the future. As the Secretary-General recently stated - and quite rightly - thanks to the past century's achievements, the world became a world of increasing openness and freedom; of growing mutual confidence; above all, a world of hope.' Today, we are demonstrating the ability to take concerted and responsible action in the face of conflicts, challenges and global threats. In that, the principal guarantee I see is that we will be able to achieve the noble goals solemnly proclaimed three years ago in the Millennium Declaration.  ﻿It is my great pleasure and honour to address the General Assembly at its fifty- eighth session. At the outset, allow me, Sir, to extend my sincere congratulations on your election and to wish you every success in presiding over the Assembly at this session. Even though we entered the new millennium with clear resolve to work for a better future, sharing a vision of global solidarity and common security, which we expressed in the Millennium Declaration, we are witnessing an increase in tragic events, which occur almost daily. The tragedy that took place on 19 August in Baghdad is forcing us to reconsider the true accomplishments and values of civilization today and to re-examine the connections between poverty, development, self-sustainability, respect for human rights and the quest for true progress, as enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Fully aware of all the global challenges facing us, we must prepare for a long and exhausting campaign working step by step and tackling one problem at a time for poverty reduction and the development of underdeveloped countries, and against the scourge of terrorism, organized crime and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, wherever such threats arise. The world is yet again faced with new challenges. The United Nations have yet again to make crucial 2 decisions in response to them. Poverty, weapons proliferation and AIDS are among the most destabilizing factors on the international scene, as is terrorism. I am sincerely convinced, therefore, that this year's debate on all these issues, especially on the issue of terrorism, will pave the way towards a consensus among Member States on the specific measures to be taken and thus invest the United Nations with new authority, which is so urgently needed to counter threats to international peace, health, stability and collective security. Allow me to take this opportunity to stress the importance of dialogue to resolve the most pressing issues of today. Dialogue is essential and, it goes without saying, only possible among those who are ready for it. Dialogue based on mutual respect represents a key instrument for the improvement of relations and cooperation among peoples and countries. It is a fundamental condition for the successful outcome of negotiations and reconciliation of differences to reach decisions that are acceptable to all sides. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina have learned the value of dialogue the hard way. Consider our recent past, during which the lack of dialogue caused misunderstanding, conflicts and hostilities that resulted in the tragic loss of human life, the exodus of young people and the devastation of the economy over the past decade. The entire international community not only witnessed this tragedy but was called on to be actively involved to overcome it. I can only feel proud that I am addressing the Assembly today as the head of State of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which the international community no longer views as a crisis area. Rather, it has become a State that actively participates in stabilization processes in the region and throughout the world. From the Central European Initiative and the South East European Cooperation Process to United Nations peacekeeping operations, Bosnia and Herzegovina is contributing to regional, European and world peace and prosperity. At the same time, committed to reforms, we strive to lay the ground for overcoming the aftermath of recent conflicts and are devoted to respect for the human rights of all individuals and peoples, as well as their cultural, religious and other diversities. I would like to point out that the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina are giving priority to advancing the political and economic stability of the country and enhancing its international role through the implementation of planned reforms. I am convinced that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in partnership-like cooperation with the High Representative and other representatives of the United Nations and international institutions, will find the best solutions for the implementation of reforms and the most adequate legal solutions for the realization of a faster economic development of the country and the creation of real chances for the integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union. In the process of Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to European integration, we have just completed discussions with the European Commission (EC) within the framework of the feasibility study. Working on the EC's tasks has been a positive experience in building partnerships with the international community. We are now entering a new phase with full confidence, convinced that the initiated process will result in the final fulfilment of all conditions for membership in the European Union (EU). This comes as a result of the decision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities to take their destiny into their own hands and to respond to major challenges such as the fight against organized crime and corruption, the strengthening of institutions, conducting legal system reforms, implementation of structural reforms and reduction of the unemployment rate. We are committed to following the path of proven success strategies in order to overcome as soon as possible our difficult heritage from the past and to start building, with mutual understanding, a modern Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only in this way may we pass on to future generations the message of worldwide peace and development, based on mutual understanding and tolerance. This year Bosnia and Herzegovina took over the chairmanship of the South East European Cooperation Process. We are content with the positive steps taken, both in the stabilization and in the overall development of the Balkan region and integration of the Western Balkans into the Euro-Atlantic structures. I am pleased that mutually harmonized agreements and joint priorities are being fully supported by the EU, by the Stability Pact, by many friendly countries in the world and by international financial and other organizations. I am all the more pleased in view of the fact that the 3 countries of the region confirm their readiness and commitments to mutual cooperation and the building of good neighbourly and regional relations. I must stress the fact that there are still many open issues and incomplete tasks in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am convinced that Bosnia and Herzegovina will succeed in the process of strengthening joint institutions and in establishing a strong legal framework. We are committed to fulfil all Bosnia and Herzegovina's international obligations, particularly those related to cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, participation in the world's fight against organized crime, respect of human rights, return of refugees and displaced persons, full implementation of property laws and the return of property to its rightful owners. Our absolute priority is the fight against terrorism and organized crime, and, at the international level, we are of the view that the United Nations and the Security Council should play the leading role in that fight. Together with other countries, Bosnia and Herzegovina intends to actively tackle this issue, which represents a threat to the entire civilized world. Fully committed to this fight, we in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the assistance of the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which successfully completed its mission last December, have established one of the most modern state border services. In addition, we have improved the legal framework and we are fighting actively against the trafficking of women and children, this modern form of slavery. Our efforts have recently been recognized by the United States Government, and as result, we have been moved to category B. The issue of missing persons is particularly sensitive and difficult for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have to make additional efforts, with the assistance of the international community, to at least give the opportunity to grieving families to discover the whereabouts of their loved ones, what happened to them, where they were buried, and to identify their remains and lay them to rest with dignity. Allow me to point out that Bosnia and Herzegovina is now a much better place for business than it was a year ago, due to the reforms completed during this year in particular. I would like to mention the example of the Bulldozer Committee that redrafted 50 laws and regulations that were discouraging private initiative and suffocating any sense for business. Having created a more favourable legal framework and business environment, Bosnia and Herzegovina has become a better place for investment opportunities and employment. Nevertheless, we must not lie back, we must further accelerate the process of economic reforms. The continuation of the privatization process and further reforms of the judicial system are of utmost importance for creating a more secure business environment in order to open the country to direct foreign investments. We are in the process of rearranging and simplifying the tax system through the establishment of a single custom system and a value-added tax, thus eliminating corruption and white-collar crime. In order to encourage the entire process of the creation of an investment-friendly environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in February 2004 we will be hosting an international investment conference in Mostar, where we will present the new economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, particularly during recent days, we have been finalizing the reforms of the armed forces and the State intelligence service, having realized that a modern security system is a pre-condition for Bosnia and Herzegovina's full participation in common security arrangements, through membership in the Partnership for Peace and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. At this moment we attach paramount importance to reforms and the modernization of the educational system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is our firm belief that, by caring for the individual and by ensuring the collective right to get an education in one's own language and alphabet, we will enhance mutual dialogue and tolerance, in order to preserve the multicultural society of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Next year we also plan to finalize the reconstruction of the Old Bridge in Mostar, where we are planning once again to celebrate the reunion of both banks of the river and its people. This is our way of sending a global message to all civilizations: this bridge is built of versatile cultural materials, it is an alloy of various traditions and it is the paradigm of a 4 solution that is possible and evident despite the conflicts and differences in the world. I hereby invite you to make use of this opportunity and make this bridge a symbol of unity for the next year. Elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina were held almost a year ago. This time, the international community fully supported the election results. The international community expressed its readiness to support democratic processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we, the elected authorities, have made our choice through reforms that have as their aim a modern Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are committed to taking ownership, to bearing more responsibilities. During his 16 months in office, the High Representative imposed in the first eight months twice as many laws as he did in the second. We are pleased to note the trend of reduction of imposed laws this year, but our ultimate goal is a Bosnia and Herzegovina that is a member of the EU. This Bosnia and Herzegovina has its destiny in the hands of its own citizens and is on the road of no return towards European integration, with more power in the engine of its own institutions and less power in the tow truck of the United Nations High Representative. Above all, this Bosnia and Herzegovina has a constitution cut out to the measure of its peoples and to each and every citizen. Allow me to conclude by looking into the future. We have presented our candidature for membership in the Security Council for 2010, reaffirming our commitment to build a State that may share its positive experience and participate actively in the world's peace-building, by that time, we hope, within the system of a reformed and reinvigorated United Nations. We are already participating in the United Nations peacekeeping operations in Ethiopia and Eritrea, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Timor-Leste. We are ready to send our transport unit, military observers and civilian police officers to Liberia. By the year 2009, we are planning to fulfil the conditions set forth for EU membership, fully committed to the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina based on stability, the rule of law, democracy and a market economy. We are gradually becoming recognized for our implementation of democratic and economic reforms and for harmonizing our priorities with international standards. Next year, from 15 to 17 May 2004 in Sarajevo, we are planning to host the Second Intergovernmental Conference for Children in Europe and Central Asia, together with the Government of Germany and the United Nations Children's Fund. The Conference is the continuation of regional consultations held in Berlin in 2001, and the 2002 General Assembly special session devoted to children. Today, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a sustainable State, albeit with the generous contributions and assistance from the international community, the United Nations and its most prominent leading figures, including the late Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, who will be remembered in Bosnia and Herzegovina as the head of Civil Affairs of the United Nations mission. We remain ever so grateful to those who lent us their hands in times of need and despair. Today, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a State well on its way to being part of Europe, with the ambition to create an environment where the return of refugees and displaced persons will not be halted for political or economic reasons, but will be encouraged for reasons of economic prosperity and sustainability that will be achieved through the efforts of all of us. ﻿Sir, may I, as Prime Minister of Malaysia and Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement, offer my sincere congratulations to the President on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I am confident that given his wisdom, experience and diplomatic skill, he will be able to steer the proceedings of this session to a successful conclusion. I wish to assure him of the 10 fullest cooperation of the Malaysian delegation. I strongly believe that the members of the Non-Aligned Movement would similarly render their full support and cooperation to him. Allow me also to pay tribute to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan, for his dedication and the effective manner in which he conducted the work of the fifty-seventh session. I also commend the Secretary-General for his efforts and perseverance, and I salute the men and women who had dedicated and given their lives in the service of the United Nations. The General Assembly has been conceived as a forum for the nations of the world, big and small, to air their views and grievances freely, as the stakeholders in the governance of the international community. Unfortunately, it is subservient to the Security Council, which in turn is subservient to any single one of the five victors of a war fought more than half a century ago. It is hardly a democratic forum, but it is all that the great civilization of the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries has — a civilization that is supposed to uphold freedom. Still we, the small nations, have much to be grateful for. From being the colonies of the Europeans, we are now independent and we are granted membership of the United Nations with the right to speak, albeit with proper restraint and decorum, in this Assembly. As independent nations, we believe that we have a right to manage our internal affairs ourselves without foreign interference. We admit that there are abuses in the management of our countries by some of our Governments, but our detractors should remember that they, too, abused their Governments’ power when they seized land belonging to indigenous peoples and exterminated them, claiming that it was their “manifest destiny”, the “white man’s burden”, to bring civilization by setting up their own countries in these lands and confining the indigenous peoples to barren reserves, with no role in the Government of the new nations. What they did to the indigenous peoples is not out of character, for in their own countries they carried out pogroms against the Jews, inquisitions and mock trials, torture and killing by burning at the stake. We all carry the baggage of history, but we would willingly leave it behind were it not for the fact that history has a nasty habit of repeating itself. Today, we are seeing the resurgence of European imperialism. At first, we thought that the colonization would be virtual. Merely by economic strangulation and financial emasculation, the newly independent countries could be brought to their knees, begging to be recolonized in other forms. Today, however, we are actually facing the old physical occupation by foreign forces. Puppet regimes are installed, dancing as puppets do. This institution, the United Nations, in which we had pinned so much hope, despite the safeguards supposed to be provided by the permanent five, is today collapsing on its clay feet, helpless to protect the weak and the poor. This United Nations can just be ignored, pushed aside, gesticulating feebly as it struggles to be relevant. Its organs have been cut out, dissected and reshaped so that they may perform the way the puppetmasters want. The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization have now been turned into instruments of hegemony to impoverish the poor and enrich the rich. It is not surprising that today the disparities between rich and poor are far greater than ever. With an impotent United Nations and its agencies turned into national organs of the powerful, the small nations are now naked and hapless. Even if we are totally innocent, there is nothing to prevent trumped-up charges being brought against us. We feel a great need for the integrity and credibility of the United Nations to be restored. Fortunately, the breach of international norms has been by countries which are reputedly tolerant of free speech and the rights of others. When criticisms are forbidden, the abuses will increase until they become intolerable and revolt takes place, with all the destruction that accompanies it. That was what happened with Saddam Hussein on a national scale. That can also happen on an international scale. Free speech provides the safety valve, the absence of which must eventually lead to an explosion. Since the Asian financial crisis in 1997, Malaysia has not been able to recover fully. This crisis was followed by the collapse of the dot.com companies and the massive cheating by the huge multinational corporations of the rich. Then came the 11 September 2001 attack by terrorists, which precipitated an unprecedented tightening of security worldwide and the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq. The world now lives in fear — the rich of terror attacks and the others of being made targets of suspicion and pre-emptive aggression. Then came severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), which almost bankrupted many airlines and the tour and travel business. SARS disappeared almost as quickly as it appeared, but there is no guarantee that it or similar new infectious diseases will not come back. The world has lost its way. The hopes of the post- Second-World-War period and the United Nations were dashed by the cold war. The cold war is over now, but the resultant unipolar world and the ascendancy of capitalism have brought about new threats. No country is safe from marauding currency traders who, in a few short days, can demolish the patiently nurtured economies of the developing world. Far from being curbed, these highway brigands are lauded for their philanthropy. Robin Hood at least stole from the rich to give to the poor. These highwaymen steal from the poor and give a paltry sum to assuage their sense of guilt. They are no philanthropists. The unipolar world dominated by a democratic nation is leading the world into economic chaos, political anarchy, uncertainty and fear. We are not going to recover or have peace so long as threats are used for political and economic reforms that most of the world is not ready for or willing to accept. If we want to have democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, the powerful must demonstrate their commitment to all these noble ideas. And they can begin by restructuring the United Nations, in particular by abolishing the undemocratic single-country veto. This should be replaced with a modified veto whereby two veto powers, backed by three other members of the Security Council, would be needed to block any United Nations resolution. Even that, however, should be gradually dismantled in favour of majority decisions in the Security Council. The other important agencies of the United Nations must be freed from the domination of any single country. Gradually, they should be made more democratic. The free market must be recognized for what it is — a market in which the bottom line is paramount. It is not a political force for the disciplining of Governments. For the right to exploit world trade, a tax should be levied by the United Nations and used by the United Nations to build needed infrastructure for the poor countries of the world. Exchange rates should be fixed by an international commission based on relevant issues. Apart from a small commission, no profits may be made by speculating or manipulating exchange rates. Subsidies by rich countries for the production of food and other products must be forbidden, although poor countries should be allowed for a stipulated time to protect their industries and food production. The world has lost its way. The world is moving too fast. We need to pause to take stock of things. There is a Malaysian saying that when one loses his way he should go back to the beginning. We need to go back to the beginning. If we dare to admit it, many of the problems that we face today are due to the arbitrary expropriation of the land of the Palestinians in order to create the State of Israel in order to solve the European Jewish problem.  ﻿Allow me at the outset to express my pleasure at seeing in the presidency of the General Assembly a representative of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. I would ask you, Sir, to extend my greetings to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, along with our full recognition of his leadership, which has given this institution of ours a new impetus. I would also ask you to convey to him and to the entire staff of the United Nations our condolences over the death of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. We live in a world of fragile and perilous balances, the result of our collective inability to achieve genuine peace and shared well-being in the context of international legality. We are confronting today an economic globalization that is triggering imbalances to the detriment of developing countries, particularly the poorest. We are also confronting a globalization of violence, suffering the threats of terrorism as well as the war against it, and international organized crime that weakens public security and jeopardizes world peace. We share these problems along with the responsibility to find a solution to them. No country, large or small, can overcome alone either the challenges of the present or those that will have to be met successfully in the future. The attitude that will be essential in the face of threats to international peace, security and development is that of responsibility shared among all nations. Mexico knows that we, the peoples of the United Nations, can together ensure that hunger, intolerance, exclusion, crime and illegitimacy are banished once and for all. Together, we can guarantee every individual the right to live in human dignity and the right of future generations to grow, develop and contribute to the history of human civilization. In our Millennium Declaration, we have an irreplaceable guide on how to meet the challenges of the present and the future. Mexico has made significant progress in terms of democracy, freedoms, gender equity, respect for minority groups, health and education, and particularly in reducing poverty and improving income distribution, as reflected in the resolute and rapid advances we have made towards the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. We have come one third of the way towards achieving those goals in the past two years alone and we shall have essentially attained them by 2010, well before the target date of 2015. Though Mexican men and women will not be satisfied merely by achieving those goals, we know we are on the right track. Now is the time not for us to shrink from challenges, but rather to be hopeful about our joint labours and our work as a team. We feel the same about the international situation as we do about the national context. Convinced therefore of the validity, usefulness and relevance of our Organization, Mexico appeals from this supreme global forum for shared international responsibility. This Assembly, the most representative body of humankind, is the most appropriate forum in which to call for collective action. Here the major international problems have been discussed, and here dialogue has been made the cornerstone of the effort to find solutions. Here, therefore, we must focus our efforts on achieving shared peace, security and development. 21 This is the first general debate of our Assembly since the Iraq war. Our Organization is at a critical and crucial juncture. The attacks on the United Nations in Baghdad have harmed our Organization and hurt us all. An attack on the United Nations is an attack on all its Members. The events in Iraq sparked a debate that ranks among the most far-reaching in the life of the United Nations. As a non-permanent member of the Security Council and, above all, assuming its responsibility as a member of the world community, Mexico has been faithful to the principle of seeking the pacific settlement of disputes, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter. We have been actively and constructively involved in negotiating resolutions and are convinced that they will lead to the swift restoration of full sovereignty and independence for the Iraqi people. One of the top priorities of our Organization is to give impetus to the process of restoring sovereignty, resulting in the establishment of a representative Government for Iraqi men and women. The debate over the issue of Iraq requires us to act upon our commitments and change the way we think about when the use of force is legitimate, in accordance with the Charter. It is vitally important that we review States’ commitments to abide by international law and the existing machinery to ensure compliance with Security Council resolutions. The agreements reached and reforms achieved will greatly and profoundly determine the future effectiveness of the United Nations and proper functioning of the collective decision-making processes that underpin the multilateral approach. Above and beyond Iraq, the world is closely following many other major challenges. As we have noted today, the unfinished job of peace-making in the Middle East, Afghanistan, Africa and the Balkans implies new threats and challenges to international security. A particular source of concern is the increase in tensions in Asia, in light of the development of weapons of mass destruction. We have always been a nation committed to peace, convinced that dialogue, negotiation and the law are effective conflict-resolution instruments. Today, we reaffirm that it is time to give special emphasis to diplomatic action and to work together to meet common challenges. In view of the world’s present potential for destruction, it is time for us to ensure that diplomacy and negotiation get priority attention with regard to international disputes. Reaffirming the principles and values that govern our actions on the international scene, Mexico is appealing for peace and global cooperation so that, together, we can effectively foster international peace, security and development. History teaches us that, unless great economic and social disparities, injustice, discrimination, intolerance and lack of international cooperation are addressed, we will continue to endure current threats such as terrorism. Mexico is unequivocally committed to combating terrorism. Combating it effectively requires not only better and more intense international cooperation but also new approaches to international legality. The fight against terrorism will not be effective without a new recognition of international law and a United Nations system that has sufficient capacity to ensure compliance with it. We must confront this and other challenges by adopting a holistic view of our responsibility for maintaining and restoring peace in the world today, while tackling the structural causes of conflicts. To meet those challenges will require sustained conflict- prevention capacity, the mobilization of political will and a strategically targeted commitment of resources. Such a perspective can be contributed only by this universal Organization, the only such body with the legitimacy, experience, capacity to convene peoples and the moral force to concert our efforts for the sake of peace and universal well-being. The response to the global challenges facing us requires a robust political effort on the part of all nations — an effort that is possible solely from within these halls. As a nation that has always done its utmost to attain the noble objectives of the United Nations and convinced of the relevance of the principles and values that gave rise to this Organization, Mexico renews its firm commitment to the United Nations and its ideals. Security cannot be built based on barriers or ignorance. True security and lasting peace among nations is based on mutual understanding and a demonstrated belief in equal treatment for all nations — ideals that have developed over time within this Organization. The relevance of this Organization is undeniable. Mexico reaffirms its confidence in multilateral arrangements. We have associated ourselves with the 22 appeal by the Secretary-General to put forward innovative ideas and approaches geared towards reforming the United Nations. We agree with the Secretary-General’s view that the international system is in crisis and with his appeal for fundamental reform of the United Nations. Members can rest assured that Mexico will make every diplomatic effort to reform and update our Organization, which the international situation necessitates. Mexico considers that real reform must be based on five specific guidelines. The first is to strengthen our collective security system to ensure rapid responses to crises and transparent collective decision-making. The second is to guarantee support for economic and social development of States, particularly for the least- developed. The third is to guarantee respect for the sovereignty and independence of States while assuring at the same time the legitimacy and legality of international efforts to combat impunity. The fourth is to promote and protect human rights. The fifth is to increase the effectiveness of decision-making. We must revitalize the commitment that States and nations make to observing universal norms. Reforms must concentrate on the performance of our multilateral system. The work of the Security Council demonstrates this need. Without question, debate over its composition involves the need to make it more representative and thus increase its legitimacy. Although the central issue is the functioning of the Security Council and respect for its resolutions, the discussions of the past decade have focused on expanding the membership and selecting new permanent members. There is little worth in considering a Council with a larger membership if the resolutions that it issues are not respected or if they lack a common interpretation of the scope of their provisions. We must ensure the right kind of representativeness, limit and regulate the right of veto and call for greater transparency and for creating a more balanced relationship with the other organs of the United Nations system, particularly the General Assembly. We must ensure that the Council does not exceed its competencies or shirk its responsibilities. Let us think democratically. Let us seek a balance between the main organs of the United Nations. Let us dare to achieve a reform of the General Assembly that will include safeguarding its quality as a universal, parliamentary forum, without abandoning its ability for decision-making and acting in a timely manner. Let us think of a new type of collective security system that is effective and balanced, which would function under the guidance of our democratic body par excellence — the General Assembly. Inertia has caused each main organ of our Organization to act in a manner that is removed from the main purposes and objectives of the United Nations. The development agenda must be better linked to conflict prevention and peace-building activities must include mechanisms to ensure economic and social development. For that reason, we must also think about how to strengthen the Economic and Social Council and about whether we can and should turn it into an economic and social security council. Mexico believes that reform should bring the United Nations into line with the requirements of an ever-changing world, in order to help us to overcome the existing gaps and fresh challenges. Today, faithful to the principles, values and ideals of our Organization, we have the obligation to build a new international architecture, which, with a vision for the future, leaves fratricidal conflicts and struggles behind, opens new avenues of understanding and international cooperation and forges new paths towards peace, international security and development.  ﻿At the outset, it is my pleasure to congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly, which demonstrates the trust that this body has in him. We know that his skill and capabilities will ensure the success of our work, and we have every confidence that he will be participating in strengthening the role of the United Nations at a time when the international community is undergoing profound change. I would also like to welcome the laudable efforts made by the outgoing President of the General Assembly. I would like to stress that the delegation of my country, one of the Vice Presidents at this session, will provide the President with every kind of support. I would also like to take this opportunity to express to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, our sincere gratitude and appreciation for his tireless efforts to successfully carry out the huge mission and responsibilities entrusted to the Organization. At a time when we are witnessing a myriad of changes and surprising events, we would also like to express our sorrow at the horrendous and unjust attack on the United Nations office in Baghdad, an attack that we consider to be aimed at the fundamental principles and values that the United Nations is championing. We meet here full of hope and in response to the aspirations and concerns raised by numerous important issues before us for consideration during the present session. We must meet the difficult challenges and perils that confront us. We are at a crossroads in a highly complex era, in which we cannot rest on our laurels. We must face the international tragic events and developments that are damaging to the credibility of the United Nations and its noble principles and values. We must do this collectively through multilateral institutions that will guarantee unified efforts and vision. We have met here today, and we must frankly and objectively recall what took place during the last session of the General Assembly, in 2002. That session took place one year after the odious terrorist attacks on the United States. During our debate then, we were unanimous in condemning and combating world terrorism with a view to eradicating it. We tried strenuously to avoid a war in Iraq. We welcomed the road map and prospects for a peaceful and comprehensive settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. One year later, here we are asking whether we can indeed say that we have accomplished what we sought or taken steps towards peace in the Middle East as we had wished. Now that the Iraqi regime is no longer in place, does Iraq in fact enjoy a democratic and free system and a constitutional order, which we so ardently desire or have we in reality made Iraq a stage for violence and a hotbed of terrorism? When my country opposed the war against Iraq, it was convinced that the United Nations was in a position to locate and eliminate weapons of mass destruction there and that the regime could be made to comply with the relevant resolutions based on international law. My Government believed that this war would not achieve its aims, not only because it was based on shaky foundations but also because it was difficult to predict its negative consequences. We note with regret that it has led to increased extremism and terrorism. On the other hand, regarding the Arab-Israeli conflict, my country has developed a position based on the principles laid down by the Quartet: working for the advent of a Palestinian State that would exercise full sovereignty over its territory, with Jerusalem as its capital; withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Arab territories occupied since 5 June 1967, and the return of the refugees. We were and are still convinced that a settlement can only be achieved if Israel ceases its delaying tactics and complies with United Nations resolutions. We are convinced that Israel would only accept a solution if it were imposed on it by a binding resolution. This has not yet come to pass. The world remains silent in the face of ongoing Israeli aggression against the Palestinians. The Security Council is paralysed, unable to adopt a resolution because the United States did not use its influence, despite its positive approach, as represented in the road map, to achieve the desired solution. Therefore we wonder if we can still say that everything is fine with the world and that peace and security are within our 21 grasp when the Middle East, East and West Africa, and East and South-East Asia have been battered by crises and conflicts? If we tried to analyse these crises and their ramifications, we would find three major causes: first, a lack of democracy and freedoms; secondly, poverty and ignorance; and thirdly, a global order in which policies of hegemony dominate and practices of pressure are exerted against Third World States. Will we be able at the United Nations to alleviate these desperate situations? Is it sufficient to proclaim democracy, devotion to freedom and human rights as a panacea for all problems? Can these ideals eradicate poverty and eliminate all that is negative in the realities of each country and in international relations? In fact, to alleviate these problems in an effective manner, we must take into consideration the three causes I have just mentioned. Therefore, the rich and the powerful must heed the cries of the weak and the poor. A real partnership and war against injustice are guarantees of international peace and security and the best way to prevent extremism and terrorism. If things remain as they are now, we will witness a revolution of the poor, a rebellion of the oppressed, a scenario that is quite removed from the one on the clash of civilizations, as advanced by some parties. My country believes that we need to seriously and positively cope with these crises and conflicts. The Middle East must no longer be a hotbed of tension and crises. The following measures are necessary: first, there must be an immediate halt to the occupation of Iraq, and its sovereignty, territorial integrity and resources must be preserved. The United Nations must assume responsibility for rebuilding Iraq; a national Government must be formed with a national constitution and a democratic regime; the Iraqis must be able to enjoy full rights and freedoms, and the League of Arab States must make a contribution to such efforts within international legality. We fully support the endeavours undertaken by the Governing Council in Iraq. Secondly, the Security Council must shoulder its full responsibilities by implementing resolutions relevant to the Arab-Israeli conflict and by implementing the road map, without any amendments by the Israelis. Tel Aviv must be prevented from carrying out the negative and pernicious act of killing or expelling Yasser Arafat, the elected President of the Palestinian people and the Palestinian National Authority. Thirdly, Israel must withdraw from Syrian and Lebanese occupied territory, for that is an integral part of any attempt to have a just peace in the Middle East. We would like to recall that the Arab countries, in accordance with the Arab initiative for peace, had accepted Israel as a State in the region and had agreed to deal with it on the basis of its real interest in peace and in ending the occupation of the Arab territories. We would also like to recall that my country subscribes to the efforts made by the United Nations regarding measures resulting from the Conference on Disarmament, which will allow us to adopt an international treaty putting an end to the arms race. There is a need to encourage confidence-building measures on the national and regional level. The Middle East must be a region free from weapons of mass destruction. Israeli nuclear installations must be submitted to international inspection. We must reject the policies of selectivity and double standards for this issue and many others. The policy of embargo and unilateral economic sanctions that go beyond regional borders and are imposed on certain countries are flagrant violations of international law. My country subscribes to the United Nations appeal to put an end to unilateral measures imposed on the Sudan and Cuba, now that these measures have been eliminated regarding Libya. This will allow us to spread a culture of peace, dialogue and understanding, even in dealing with questions on which there has been disagreement. This would be a reasonable means and a rational approach to settle conflicts and differences among countries. My country believes that this is also the approach and the means that must be adopted and implemented to settle the conflict in Somalia, in order to preserve the national interests of that country. The Republic of Yemen was one of the first countries to participate in efforts designed to achieve national reconciliation in Somalia. Therefore, my country urges the United Nations and the international community to play their role to ensure peace and security in Somalia. Yemen would also like to express its support for the peace negotiations between the Sudanese Government and the various opposition factions, which would finally lead to peace, security and stability in the brotherly country of the Sudan and would safeguard its people and territorial integrity. 22 The phenomenon of international terrorism is not unique to a single colour, religion or doctrine. It is an obstacle to world peace, security and progress. Various international coordination efforts to contain this phenomenon have failed because of lack of vision and faulty approaches. The Republic of Yemen has greatly suffered from terrorism. It has tried to take all possible measures to cope with this ill. We hope that there will be united efforts by the international community to eradicate this scourge and to finalize a comprehensive convention against international terrorism. Yemen renews its appeal for holding an international conference under the aegis of the United Nations to define the causes of this phenomenon and to finalize a strategy that contains solutions to the origins of this destructive phenomenon. My country also believes that the efforts of the international community must be focused on putting an end to any and all political pressure exerted on certain countries and on opposing any attempt at threats or use of force and interference using terrorism as its excuse in the internal affairs of various countries. The Republic of Yemen joins many countries in calling for the need to differentiate between terrorism as a phenomenon and national struggle against foreign occupation by all means, as is the case with the legitimate and just struggle of the Palestinian people. The developing countries are faced today with development challenges that can be overcome only through concerted international efforts and support which would help effect political and economic reforms. There is a need for rich countries to grant development and financial assistance to poor countries in order to ease the debt burden of the latter and to facilitate the use and transfer of technology. Heads of State and Government who met during the Millennium Summit in New York in 2000 committed themselves to achieving this goal. The United Nations, together with the International Monetary Fund and other institutions, must try to establish an international fund for the eradication of poverty and to improve the situation of refugees. There is also a need to relieve economic, social and security problems, from which countries such as Yemen suffer due to the many refugees on its soil, especially those from Africa. ﻿Samoa warmly welcomes the well-deserved election of Mr. Julian Hunte, given his leadership in his region and among our community of small States. Let me also pay tribute to President Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic for his effective guidance during the fifty-seventh session. Unprecedented events since we met last year have tested the very foundation of our Organization. There is therefore great urgency for our membership to declare anew our faith in the purposes and principles of the United Nations. We need to assert, both in commitment and in action, our support for fundamental human rights and the peaceful coexistence of nations. The range of challenges that now confront the international community in our globalized and interdependent world require that nations be united in common endeavour. Only through cooperation and multilateral joint effort can we hope effectively to guarantee human rights and achieve peace and security, and social and economic justice, for all. Samoa therefore believes that the United Nations remains uniquely suited to the pursuit and coordination of global initiatives to attain these objectives. To this end, Samoa firmly supports ongoing efforts to reform and modernize the United Nations. Substantive changes are required with regard to both the General Assembly and Security Council, as well as to other bodies of the United Nations system. We certainly support the expansion of the permanent membership of the Security Council to include nations such as Germany and Japan. Samoa adds its voice to the condemnation of the atrocious terrorist attack on United Nations offices in Baghdad last month, which took the lives of many United Nations personnel, including the esteemed High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. On behalf of my Government and of the people of Samoa, I reiterate our very sincere condolences to the Secretary-General and the families of those who lost their lives or were injured in that terrible event. Terrorism is an offence to humanity and goes against the core values of the United Nations. Terrorist activities around the world demand a continued and concerted international response. States must be determined in their national and collective efforts to combat terrorism in all its forms. I reaffirm the strong support of Samoa for the relevant Security Council resolutions against terrorism. Those resolutions provide a clear signal of our determination to suppress terrorist activities, including those related to training, international movement and financing. In this area, Samoa continues to align its domestic policies and legislation with the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee, as well as to participate actively in the regional security measures undertaken in the Pacific region. We commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his determination and efforts for the reconstruction of Iraq. We recognize the enormous complexities and obstacles of this task. But substantive commitment and work must continue in providing humanitarian assistance, as well as in restoring law and order. We also firmly believe that continued engagement in Iraq must take place with the full endorsement of the Security Council. We pray for peace and security for Iraq and hope that sovereignty will be restored to its people as soon as possible. Samoa is most seriously concerned about the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. The determination of some countries to try to bring such weapons into existence particularly nuclear weapons is cause for alarm and constitutes a serious threat to international peace and security. The internationally agreed instruments to control the manufacturing, transportation and deployment of weapons of mass destruction must be strengthened and implemented. Above all, States parties must adhere and honour their obligations to these treaties. Samoa joins the call for the effective disarmament and total elimination of weapons of mass destruction. We are appalled at the continuing suffering of families and communities in all parts of the world, especially in the Middle East and Africa. We can only hope that the work to bring about stability in these areas will succeed and that communities will finally be able to live in peace. 16 As part of its support for United Nations efforts to ensure peace and security, Samoa is contributing to the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Timor- Leste. Together with members of the Pacific Islands Forum, and under the leadership of Australia and New Zealand, Samoa is also contributing to the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands, which is helping that country to restore law and order and assisting in its economic recovery. That regional initiative was endorsed at the Forum leaders' meeting last month. Its implementation conforms to regional responsibilities under the Charter, and recognizes the sovereignty of the Solomon Islands. Samoa warmly welcomes the full institutionalization of the International Criminal Court and the election of its judges and officers. The Court is a major achievement in upholding international humanitarian standards and the protection of human rights. In order to ensure that it fully achieves its purpose, however, every effort must be made to ensure its impartiality in bringing to justice those who commit genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. The Court therefore deserves to be fully supported so as to endow it with the strength of universality and the rule of law. We look forward to its service to humanity. Samoa reaffirms its commitment to achieving the Millennium Development Goals and targets pledged three years ago in this very Hall. While much has been done, it is clear from the Secretary-General's report that more work remains to be carried out. The goals of halving poverty, halting the spread of HIV/AIDS, providing universal primary education and reducing environmental degradation all by 2015 can still be achieved in the 12 years that remain. In order for that to happen, States must improve on the political momentum of the past three years and make good on their promises. Samoa recently hosted the Pacific regional meeting as part of the preparatory work for the International Meeting that will be held next year in Mauritius to review the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. This ongoing preparatory work in small island States is critical to a comprehensive review. The International Meeting next year will be a unique opportunity for the international community to assess progress to date and to focus attention on areas where the expected results did not materialize. More importantly, it should identify remedial strategies and the required resources to assist small island developing States achieve sustainable development. While we accept the primary responsibility for achieving the goals of the Programme of Action, the reality is that the support of the international community is indispensable to success. We therefore urge the fullest support by development partners in the review process and the implementation of the outcomes of the Mauritius International Meeting. Looking to 2004 and the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development, we believe that the agenda for the twelfth session is extremely important. The Commission's work will incorporate preparations for the International Meeting, but very importantly it will also focus on the key issues of water and sanitation. The significance of these issues for basic needs and healthy communities cannot be overemphasized. We note with concern the collapse of negotiations at the recent World Trade Organization (WTO) ministerial conference in Cancun earlier this month. Certainly from the perspective of a small island developing country like my own, trade is both a vital and unavoidable component of sustainable development. We therefore continue to urge that the vulnerabilities of small States be taken fully into account in the negotiations, particularly with regard to special and differential treatment, implementation issues, services, agriculture and non-agricultural market access. I would like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his steadfast and astute leadership, particularly during the dramatic events that have tested the Organization in recent years. Finally, the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly has a heavy and difficult agenda, and the President has the full support of Samoa in the discharge of his important duties. ﻿Mr. President, you have the honour and privilege of guiding the work of the General Assembly at a time when the United Nations is at a crossroads. The international situation is marked today by doubt, anguish and disillusionment. Faced with the many conflicts and acts of terrorism that beset our world, and with the constant disquieting increase in poverty, we must acknowledge that the end of ideological confrontation did not bring the world either peace or the development so hoped for by the founding fathers of this Organization. Therefore, in conveying my heartfelt and warm congratulations to you on your election to the presidency of the fifty- eighth regular session, I would like in particular to convey my wishes for courage and success in discharging this noble mission and assure you of the support of my country, Benin. My delegation would also like to convey a well- deserved tribute, to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, and to congratulate him on the results obtained during his presidency in defining modalities for implementing the outcomes of the major conferences held under the aegis of the United Nations. Allow me also to congratulate, in particular, the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on the courage, skill and resolve with which he is guiding our Organization, an irreplaceable instrument for the promotion and maintenance of world peace. My delegation is grateful to him for his constancy in dealing with events that shook our universal Organization during this year. He understood how to bring the necessary clear-sightedness, with his unshakeable faith in the ability of the international community, to provide a concerted response to urgent problems of our time while rejecting any confusion of roles. In so doing he saved our Organization from scorn and collapse. Whenever the United Nations has been called into question, faced with a challenge to its very existence, it has stood up and reaffirmed its usefulness in managing situations as the guarantor of international law. The terrorist attacks against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, which caused many casualties, profoundly shocked and enraged the people and Government of Benin. The United Nations does not deserve this kind of gratuitous barbarity perpetrated against its staff, who are devoted to the cause of rebuilding Iraq. Benin reiterates its sincere condolences to the family of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello as well as to the 14 families of all the other victims of the explosion. We once again convey to them our solidarity and support. My country reiterates to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his associates our admiration for the courage and conviction with which, every day, they do their jobs. This act should not shake their firm determination to defend the cause of humanity, and should be a new source of commitment to attain the goals of the United Nations. Our support for the United Nations and the Secretary-General is based on Benin’s commitment to multilateralism, which is and must remain the linchpin for the new order that the international community is striving to build. If there is one area in which our Organization has made some progress in strengthening its effectiveness, it is in the prevention, management and settlement of armed conflicts. It has given real meaning to its action in this area by clearly defining modalities for implementing peacekeeping operations. My country endorses the conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary-General on conflict prevention, particularly in the areas of poverty eradication, transparency in the area of arms, the fight against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons and weapons of mass destruction and the peaceful settlement of disputes. The gravity of the situation prevailing in Africa makes the continent a central concern of the international community. Given the seriousness of Africa’s problems, the United Nations and its Member States owe it to themselves to step up their support for African initiatives to reverse negative tendencies and to avoid any prolonged destabilization of the continent. At its recent summit held in Maputo, Mozambique, the African Union gave a forceful demonstration of its resolve to acquire the means to tackle its problems. The conference elected all the senior officials of the African Union Commission. The new team should strive to develop and maintain relations of partnership with the world, based on Africa’s priorities. Benin hopes that this new team will enjoy the trust and support of the international community in order to restore peace on the continent by eliminating various pockets of tension and through the promotion and implementation of development programmes. We also commend the work done in the framework of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), which embodies the hope for the revitalization of the continent through combined synergies produced by implementation of the main points of this programme, which is based upon consensus. The importance accorded by the G-8 to the promotion of peace and stability in Africa is an important step forward. This new commitment will give Africa the means to contain the many conflicts and latent crises that are fraught with serious danger and unimaginable consequences. Benin is prepared to cooperate to establish this work plan so that by 2010 Africa will have an inter-African peacekeeping force, an essential instrument for political stability, without which Africa would be unable to tackle urgent tasks of economic and social development. The Security Council missions to Central Africa and West Africa in June and July this year highlighted the crucial need to have this mechanism as a permanent presence. Developments in Africa since our fifty-seventh session, and the facts gathered on the ground by the Council missions reaffirm one unavoidable fact, that the effective mobilization and rapid deployment of troops to the field is decisive in managing armed conflicts in Africa, as indeed it is everywhere else on our planet. The speedy reaction of the international community was crucial in the case of Côte d’Ivoire, where Operation Licorne and the deployment of the contingent of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations Mission in Côte d’Ivoire (MINUCI), made it possible to help warring brothers to silence their arms and embark on a dialogue in order to preserve the territorial integrity of Côte d’Ivoire. The restoration of calm should not lead us to underestimate the seriousness of the situation in Côte d’Ivoire, where the political crisis is far from over. Major problems remain to be resolved, and it is important that an international military presence be maintained in Côte d’Ivoire in order to maintain conditions conducive to dialogue regarding implementation of the Linas-Marcoussis agreements for a return to normality. Furthermore, the rapid reaction by the Central African States and Nigeria made it possible to put an 15 end to the coup d’état in Sao Tome and Principe and to return to power the democratically elected President. Likewise, just a few weeks ago in Guinea-Bissau, immediate action and initiatives taken by ECOWAS prompted the perpetrators of the coup d’état to enter into a negotiating process aimed at a short transition leading up to the organization of presidential and legislative elections. The authorization to send a multinational force and a United Nations stabilization force to Liberia, under Chapter VII of the Charter, gave a clear signal of the international community’s determination to end the conflict there. The impact of these steps is very encouraging, and we welcome the signing, in Accra on 18 August this year, of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. Recent political developments in the Democratic Republic of the Congo have continuously highlighted the importance of the need to hold an international conference on the situation in the Great Lakes region. The complexity of phenomena in Africa requires the Secretary-General to maintain an ongoing dialogue with African leaders and to adopt common approaches to relevant issues. That is why Benin welcomes the establishment of the Office and the appointment of an Under-Secretary-General as the Special Adviser on Africa. The implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), a genuinely African initiative, has made significant progress this year. It has become increasingly detailed in programme design and in its specific projects for agriculture, the environment, energy and information and communications technologies. The involvement of civil society has been effective in expanding the social basis of NEPAD and as a way of involving peoples in its implementation. Benin urgently appeals to the international community to enhance its support for NEPAD, as it did in Tokyo in the context of the Third Tokyo International Conference on African Development. In this regard, it is important that the United Nations operational activities be buttressed by strategies based on effective partnership with all stakeholders in the development process. They must help implement concrete projects that have a real impact on the living and working conditions of peoples with a view to poverty eradication. Indeed, the annual rise in the number of poor people in the world has become increasingly distressing. It makes us question ever more deeply the current world order and the sincerity of the determination of the international community — in particular, that of the development institutions and the rich countries — to combat poverty and to promote genuine sustainable development. It is true that the absence of democracy, corruption and poor governance are tragic scourges in that they exacerbate poverty and impede development. There is no doubt, however, that the least developed countries have undertaken extremely courageous economic and political reforms at the cost of enormous sacrifices made by their populations. That is why we remain concerned by the low rate of implementation of the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries and call on the international community and our bilateral and multilateral partners to demonstrate greater solidarity and responsibility. My Government strongly favours a substantial increase in resources made available to the various assistance funds, in particular the United Nations Capital Development Fund, which is working to eliminate poverty. The Fifth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO) ended less than a month ago in Cancún. My country, Benin, which is the Chairman of the Coordination Bureau for the Least Developed Countries, attended with the firm determination to establish a candid and constructive dialogue with the developed countries. The goal was to find a solution to the dysfunctional free trade system, which prevents the developing countries, particularly the least developed among them, from enjoying their comparative advantages in the agricultural sector. The sectoral initiative on cotton introduced by Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali and Chad targeted that specific issue. History will record the Conference as a failure. My delegation nevertheless believes that, despite the difficulties, Cancún moved the negotiations forward. It was an opportunity for the least developed countries to state some of their concerns, in particular those related to the practice of subsidizing non-competitive agricultural producers. This practice is literally strangling the cotton growers of the underdeveloped countries, particularly in West Africa. 16 Benin should like to reopen discussions so that the trade negotiations begun in Doha can effectively offer new prospects for the development of the least developed countries. We must establish transparent pricing on the world market and open up markets in order to allow competitive countries to produce and sell their products at remunerative prices. This is of tremendous importance to African cotton-producing countries, because the future of a sector that has been developed at great cost, with the assistance of the international community, is at stake. Our Organization would gain in credibility if it could find a way to guarantee our peoples their right to subsistence. Indeed, who on this Earth has never worn a cotton shirt, dress or loincloth? Who among us here has never used cotton to clean or bind a wound? The progressive disappearance of the cotton sector will have unimaginable implications and consequences for our comfort in clothing and other needs of all humankind. The time has come, therefore, for the developed countries to hear the voice of the poor peasants labouring under the sun and rain in Africa. While globalization may require considerable structural adjustments, it is increasingly necessary that its concomitant sacrifices be parcelled out fairly. This will require the rich countries to assume their responsibility to give the peoples of the least developed countries a chance at survival. In 2004, the international community will commemorate the tenth anniversary of the International Year of the Family. That will be an important event, to which my delegation should like to draw the attention of the international community in order to spotlight the role of the family in our society and the part it can play in meeting contemporary challenges. To that end, Benin proposes the convening of a regional African conference in 2004 and calls for the support of the Secretariat for such an event. At the national level, since our last session Benin has met two significant challenges in the entrenchment of our democratic process launched in February 1990. The decentralization of our territorial administration was achieved following our municipal and communal elections of December 2002. Those elections marked the conclusion of a fundamental reform of State administration in Benin, which is now structured around decentralized, financially autonomous communes led by elected mayors who are accountable to the people. This reform has created the optimal conditions for grass-roots democracy and has allowed the people to participate actively in public administration and thus to become real stakeholders in local community development. Elections for deputies to the fourth legislature were also held in March 2003. These two elections were free, transparent and democratic. They took place calmly and peacefully. They made a further contribution to strengthening the democratic rebirth of Benin. These concrete achievements attest to the vitality and stability of our national institutions and to their effective contribution to the ongoing strengthening of the constitutional order in Benin. This historic opportunity for Benin to enjoy peace and stability in a subregion beset by recurring internal armed conflicts implies a certain responsibility with regard to our contribution to the international community’s efforts to promote democracy throughout the world and to restore peace in countries in conflict, particularly in Africa. It was in recognition of this firm commitment of Benin’s that the General Assembly entrusted us with the organization, from 4 to 6 December 2000, of the Fourth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies. For nearly three years, Benin chaired the follow-up mechanism to that Conference; it recently transferred that chairmanship to Mongolia, which organized the Fifth Conference from 10 to 12 September 2003. My country welcomes the outcome of the Ulan Bator Conference. We remain committed to the principle of periodic assessment of democratic practices. We will spare no effort in implementing the Ulam Bator Declaration and Plan of Action. The active and effective participation of Benin in peacekeeping operations decided upon or authorized by the Security Council also makes clear my country’s resolute commitment to democracy, the maintenance of peace and security in the world and international solidarity. It is in that context that Benin’s candidacy for a non-permanent seat in the Security Council for 2004 and 2005 should be seen. In that context, Benin will resolutely strive to strengthen the crucial partnership that the Security Council is endeavouring to establish with regional and subregional organizations in the area of peacekeeping. Benin is counting on the support of the entire international community so that we can have the privilege of serving, at such a high level, the cause of peace and international security. 17 ﻿I have the great honour of conveying to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session the greetings of the people of Côte d’Ivoire, President Laurent Gbagbo, Prime Minister Seydou Elimane Diarra and the Government. The delegation of Côte d’Ivoire has the pleasure of warmly congratulating the President of the General Assembly on his election. We wish him every success as he carries out the lofty and important tasks entrusted to him by the Member States of the Organization. His election is a testament to the international community’s recognition of the vibrancy and diplomacy of Saint Lucia — the President’s very beautiful country — in working for the ideals of the United Nations. His election is also a tribute to his skills as a diplomat, and an illustration of the fact that all countries are treated equally at the United Nations, which I welcome and I assure the President of the cooperation of my delegation. I am also pleased to convey the gratitude of the delegation of Côte d’Ivoire to Mr. Jan Kavan, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, for the skill and mastery with which he guided the Assembly’s work. I take this opportunity to once again express to the Secretary-General, the United Nations and the bereaved families the sincere condolences of the people of Côte d’Ivoire on the tragic death of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Iraq, other United Nations staff members and all other persons killed or wounded in the fight for peace and justice. I also take this opportunity to reaffirm the appreciation of the people and Government of Côte d’Ivoire for the work of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who works tirelessly for peace in the world and in Africa and who makes every effort to lend his personal support, as well as that of the Organization, to the restoration of peace in Côte d’Ivoire. Côte d’Ivoire was once a model of stability and a haven of peace that enjoyed relative economic prosperity. However, for almost a decade it experienced a hidden crisis that led to the coup d’état of 24 December 1999, followed on 19 September 2002 by another attempted coup d’état that quickly became an armed rebellion. It was backed by foreign elements whose aim was to undermine our republican institutions and the democratically elected Government. That crisis did enormous harm to the population of Côte d’Ivoire and to all who had chosen to live in our country and to freely carry out their activities there. A round table, held upon the initiative of France, brought together the various political forces of Côte d’Ivoire, leading to what is now known as the Linas- Marcoussis Agreement. The Agreement — to which the United Nations gave formal international recognition through Security Council resolution 1464 (2003), after it had been endorsed by heads of State and leaders of international institutions meeting at the Kléber conference centre in Paris — provides for, among other things, the establishment of a Government of national reconciliation headed by a consensus Prime Minister with the necessary executive powers to implement the Agreement. The Government of National Reconciliation, established on 13 March 2003, has made significant progress, including the 3 May 2003 signing of a comprehensive ceasefire agreement between the Forces armées nationales de Côte d’Ivoire (FANCI) and the Forces nouvelles — the former armed rebellion; the establishment of a consensus national disarmament, 21 demobilization and reintegration (DDR) programme; the normalization of relations between Côte d’Ivoire and its neighbours, including the reopening of rail service from Abidjan to Ouagadougou; the 4 July 2003 joint declaration by the two parties of an end to hostilities; and, above all, the passing of an amnesty law on 6 August 2003. It should be pointed out that that law does not provide amnesty for common crimes and offences, including crimes related to violations of human rights, which must be investigated. With regard to human rights, Côte d’Ivoire, despite the severe crisis it is experiencing, has constantly placed respect for the human person at the centre of its concerns. In addition, despite its meagre financial capacity, it has been tireless in pursuing its original policy of welcoming refugees, whose numbers have increased due to the crisis in neighbouring Liberia. Increased financial support from the international community is needed to share that heavy burden. My country must simultaneously guarantee the repatriation of the many Ivorian refugees in a number of neighbouring countries. Here, I am pleased to mention that Côte d’Ivoire has ratified all instruments relative to the protection and promotion of human rights and, on 5 August 2002 — even before the crisis had occurred — created a Ministry devoted exclusively to human rights. Moreover, in view of massive human rights violations, Côte d’Ivoire formally requested on 5 November 2002 that an impartial United Nations fact-finding mission be sent to verify such violations throughout its territory in order to combat impunity. Thus, after having at the same time consulted the African Commission on Human and People’s Rights — whose first high-level fact-finding mission had already visited Côte d’Ivoire in April 2003, following the United Nations mission dispatched by the Secretary- General at the request of the President of the Republic — Côte d’Ivoire, in order to demonstrate its full cooperation with the various mechanisms of the Commission on Human and People’s Rights, hastened to ensure positive follow-up with proposed dates for visits by the following: the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations Secretary-General on Internally Displaced Persons and by the Special Rapporteurs of the Commission on Human Rights on Contemporary Forms of Racism and Racial Discrimination; on Xenophobia and Related Intolerance; on the Right to Freedom of Opinion; on the Human Rights of Migrants; and, recently, on the Use of Mercenaries. The fact that it is temporarily impossible for our Administration and for the Special Rapporteurs to travel throughout the territory to verify the facts — together with the cries of distress of the people in those areas — is a challenge to the international community. I must commend the international community’s firm commitment and immense efforts to extricate Côte d’Ivoire from this crisis. Coming back to the progress achieved on the path to peace, I am pleased to note the 12 September 2003 appointment, after long and difficult negotiations, of the Ministers of Defence and of Security, which paves the way for implementation of the national programme of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) established by the Government of National Reconciliation. To that end, a disarmament committee and another committee responsible for reunification have been established. In those ways, the Government intends to show its resolve to work for a return to peace. However, despite such encouraging results, we must acknowledge that the path of peace is fraught with pitfalls. The current difficulties prove that the process of peace and national reconciliation remains fragile. Still, the inter-Ivorian dialogue is continuing, and all of the forces recognize that the Linas- Marcoussis Agreement is the only solution providing a way out of the Ivorian crisis. In that connection, Côte d’Ivoire welcomes the firm commitment of the United States to Liberia in supporting the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to help that fraternal country exorcise the demons of war and division. In Côte d’Ivoire, as in Liberia, the DDR programme remains of paramount importance to that end. Indeed, the Government attaches particular importance to the DDR programme, which, by re-establishing security and restoring territorial integrity, will enable Côte d’Ivoire to organize transparent and fair elections in 2005, under international supervision. On behalf of the Ivorian Government, I should like to take advantage of this rostrum once again to thank the international community — particularly the heads of State of the ECOWAS countries and the President and the Government of France — for its unwavering support for the peace effort in Côte d’Ivoire. 22 Côte d’Ivoire remains concerned about the international situation and the problems afflicting it, including the current pandemics of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis; armed conflicts; disarmament; terrorism; and comprehensive human development. Indeed, we note that, although HIV/AIDS affects 20 million people in Africa — two thirds of those infected worldwide — malaria continues to have at least an equal effect on the continent’s mortality rate. To make matters even worse, tuberculosis is showing signs of a disturbing resurgence. The establishment of the United Nations Global Fund to fight these three pandemics — amounting to $10.4 million — therefore provides genuine grounds for encouragement and hope for affected populations, particularly in countries of the third world. However, we hope that the Fund’s endowment will increase and that it will swiftly become operational and more easily accessible to countries that are already hard hit by these scourges and that — ironically enough — are also the chief theatres of armed conflicts. It is paradoxical to note that such conflicts are increasing in number, frequency and intensity — particularly in Africa — even as the modes and modalities for their management by the United Nations and by regional and subregional organizations are being strengthened, diversified and improved. Côte d’Ivoire therefore congratulates the Organization and its dedicated Secretary-General, as well as regional countries and organizations, on the results already achieved in Sierra Leone, Guinea-Bissau, Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia and the Great Lakes region, to cite just the most recent cases. Those results encourage all the parties concerned to persevere in the effort to re- establish and consolidate peace in all these war-torn areas. Concerning the situations in Iraq and in Afghanistan, my country hopes for a swift return to peace and security so that their respective peoples — who have suffered much over the past decade — will be able to devote their efforts to economic and social progress. In the Middle East, Côte d’Ivoire appeals for moderation on both sides and for compliance with the road map, which is the way back to peace in that part of the world. In any event, law must always prevail over violence, and dialogue — under the aegis of the international community — must always be the favoured tool for resolving disputes. Conflicts are the work of, inter alia, armed gangs, the unemployed, the marginalized and deserters who feed the flourishing market for mercenaries in Africa in general and in our subregion in particular. Mercenarism, together with the proliferation of and illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, is a dangerous threat to the peace and stability of our countries. Those scourges — along with terrorism, which sadly continues to claim its victims — demand special attention from the international community. The Assembly must undertake concrete measures in the fight against these destabilizing factors in the world, particularly in Africa. The implementation of the Programme of Action of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects — whose review last July revealed an increasing universal awareness of the danger of proliferation and the need to take coordinated actions to control it — will be an important step forward if we have the necessary political will. The measures undertaken at the regional and subregional levels — particularly the ECOWAS Moratorium and the assistance provided by the Programme for Coordination and Assistance for Security and Development in Africa and by other entities — are elements leading in the right direction. Likewise, the Assembly should activate and give fresh impetus to regional and international convention and encourage the standardization of legislation to effectively fight the phenomenon of mercenarism. Côte d’Ivoire endorses the proposal to draw up and establish — within the framework of ECOWAS — a general plan for stabilization in the subregion, which, I am convinced, would contribute to a return to lasting peace and stability in West Africa. Preventive action must also be taken at several levels. At the political and diplomatic level, the international community should devote greater attention to preventive diplomacy, because it is essential that the outbreak of conflict be prevented through an early-warning system. At the economic and social level, the fight against poverty must be continued, particularly by integrating the unemployed and other marginalized people into economic structures. 23 At the cultural level, education for peace, expanding sporting and cultural exchanges, meetings among groups of women and young people, at the level of each State and among the various countries, can promote tolerance and mutual understanding among peoples in the context of a dialogue among civilizations. The globalization of the economy may be a factor for progress by favouring competitiveness, bringing to the market the best products at the most competitive prices. Sadly, such globalization could also impede the development of poor countries, which suffer from fluctuations in the price of their products on the international market and, moreover, must cope with unfair competition imposed by States that subsidize their export items. Given these mixed results, the recent Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization in Cancún helped to gauge the magnitude of the ruinous consequences for African farmers of the subsidies given to producers in the North. By breaking the rules of free competition, the industrialized countries have enabled the richest producers to thrive while impoverishing those that are struggling for survival. This dire situation should cause us to examine our conscience so that together we may seek ways and means to redress this injustice. There is also an urgent need to take action to stabilize commodity prices at a profitable rate. If poor countries are to escape the vicious circle of poverty, there must be fair remuneration for the work of their farmers, complemented by an increase in official development assistance, which should reach 0.7 per cent of the gross national product of industrialized countries, and by debt cancellation. Let us take the opportunity of the present session to reflect together on ways to strengthen North-South cooperation in the framework of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development. In the framework of South- South cooperation, the most advanced countries should plan to increase trade and technology transfers to benefit less advantaged countries, in support of their own efforts. We are concerned about the coordinated follow- up to the outcome of the major international conferences held under United Nations auspices. The fight against poverty cannot be won unless the recommendations adopted in the framework of those summits are implemented. It is no good expanding the forums for discussion if the conclusions concerning financing for development or technology transfer, in particular, cannot be implemented and used on the ground in a new spirit of genuine solidarity. My country, Côte d’Ivoire, fervently wishes to see the advent of the new spirit of solidarity called for by globalization and the interdependence of our States, and also supports reform of the United Nations to make it democratic and efficient. May we all have the wisdom to ensure that our resources and intelligence are put to the service of the building of a better world, where peace, solidarity and justice reign — a world that reflects the ideals of the Charter of the United Nations.  ﻿The brutal attacks on the United Nations Mission in Baghdad are beyond comprehension. I condemn them in the strongest possible terms. The perpetrators of such crimes must be brought to justice. We must renew our efforts to bolster respect for humanitarian principles. It is unacceptable that United Nations personnel are unable to conduct humanitarian relief operations without risking their lives. It is unacceptable that United Nations personnel are denied access to people in distress. On behalf of the people of Norway, I wish to express my respect and admiration to all United Nations workers who are doing what they can to help in Iraq and other zones of conflict and danger. Unless the security needs in Iraq are met, valuable time on the road to political stability, democracy and economic and social development will be lost. Without a safe and secure environment, the United Nations is unable to help Iraq along that road. I deplore the political assassinations of religious and political leaders in Iraq. Now we must focus our attention on what is needed to rebuild Iraq. Norway is participating in international efforts to stabilize and rebuild Iraq for the benefit of the Iraqi people. Our aim is to help the people of Iraq regain control of their own destiny, to help them build a future of freedom and justice and a life in peace with their neighbours. The United Nations should play a key role in setting the benchmarks and guiding the political process towards the early restoration of Iraq’s sovereignty and the transfer of power to an Iraqi government. A carefully considered timeframe must be drawn up. We must also make sure that the tasks that we decide for the United Nations in Iraq are realistic and achievable. Terrorism is a dark force, which targets the very values and norms upon which the United Nations Charter is based. An overwhelming majority of Member States have joined forces to fight it, and we have taken some important steps together. We need to strengthen the role of the United Nations in multilateral disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. We need to agree on strong and effective regimes that can provide reliable protection against weapons of mass destruction. A week ago, world leaders and the Secretary- General sat down in New York at the invitation of Norway to discuss ways to fight terrorism and the roots of evil. They voiced their dedication to the fight against terrorism, and their determination to place humanity at the centre of that fight. We want a United Nations that reaches out and responds to the concerns of all Member States. It must reach out and respond to the concerns of all individuals, to the needs of men and women alike. We need a world of equal opportunities, where all the world’s human resources — and not only half of them — are fully put to use. We have a vision of a humane world where people can live in security and dignity, free from poverty and despair. To live up to the ideals enshrined in the Charter, the United Nations must continue to give priority to human rights and fundamental aspects of governance. A culture of impunity for mass atrocities is incompatible with human dignity and undermines long- term security. The establishment of the International Criminal Court is a historic turning point. Fighting terrorism, strengthening human security, working for development and preventing conflict are challenges that are closely related. In the Millennium 16 Development Goals, we have pledged to halve the proportion of people living in extreme poverty and to reduce child mortality by two-thirds. We have pledged to halve the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation. Norway currently holds the chairmanship of the Commission on Sustainable Development, and we are committed to achieving real progress. It is crucial that developing and developed countries and the private sector all contribute. Development must be built on a global partnership and on shared responsibilities. Norway remains committed to the Doha Development Agenda. We are confident that strengthening and making full use of this multilateral framework is the way to go. We will work hard to get the negotiations back on track. More often than not, the United Nations only becomes engaged in earnest after armed conflict has broken out. The reasons are many, but they are no excuse for the loss of lives, the human misery and the setbacks in development that are too often the high price of collective inaction. Too often the main legacy of a civil war is another civil war. Yet there are many things we can do to prevent this from happening. We can act to prevent economic conflict drivers such as diamonds and other natural resources, from fuelling and prolonging conflicts, and we can act to curb the illegal trade in small arms. By fighting poverty and promoting peace and development, we are making the soundest investment possible in Africa. We will assist the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) in their endeavours towards economic and social development and political stability in Africa. Norway will continue working for peace and stability in the Horn of Africa. The peace process between Ethiopia and Eritrea is entering a crucial phase. We urge both parties to stand by their commitments and not hesitate now that they stand at the threshold of lasting peace. In the Sudan, important progress has just been made. We urge the parties to step up their efforts and reach a final settlement. Over the last few years, the United Nations has made considerable progress in peacekeeping. The foundations for a new approach have been laid. Notable results have been achieved in Kosovo, Sierra Leone and Timor-Leste, as well as in reinforcing the capabilities of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and strengthening the United Nations Standby Arrangement System. The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan is facing a particularly challenging task. Two years on, much has been achieved, but the situation is still volatile. The safe and secure environment needed for economic growth and full implementation of the Bonn Agreement is not in place. Many people are suffering from food shortages, and are in need of assistance. Elections are due next year. Women are not yet properly empowered. Unless we can assure nation-wide security, the nation-building process in Afghanistan will be at risk. A sustained international presence will be necessary for the foreseeable future. With NATO in command of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), Norway as a NATO member has an additional stake in the building of a peaceful and prosperous future for the people of Afghanistan. We have decided to make Afghanistan one of our partner countries in development cooperation. In Sri Lanka the peace process has reached a decisive juncture. We are hopeful that the parties will soon be able to embark on negotiations towards an interim administration for the North-East Province. It is vital that the parties reach agreement and resume direct peace negotiations within the timeframe envisaged. Development of the economic infrastructure is equally important for all in Sri Lanka. In parallel with dealing with the political process, the parties should take care to proceed with the important task of reconstruction and development. Norway remains firmly committed to the role of facilitator of the peace process between the Government of Sri Lanka and the LTTE. We call on the international community to engage in the efforts for reconstruction and rehabilitation in Sri Lanka. In Myanmar the Government has recently stated its intention to invite the democratic opposition and the ethnic minorities to take part in the building of a national consensus. A good way to start would be to release Aung San Suu Kyi immediately and without conditions and thereby demonstrate the Government’s 17 sincere intentions. This might mean the beginning of a new political era in Myanmar. Norway stands ready to support efforts to make democratization an irreversible process. We strongly support the role of the United Nations and believe that the active involvement of countries in the region will be vital to reaching a solution. The year 2003 has been a tragic one for Israelis and Palestinians. Their acceptance of the road map for peace boded well, but again violence and not politics is determining the course of development. A political solution is needed, building on a parallel process where Israel takes significant steps to end the occupation, and where the Palestinian Authority takes determined steps to fight terror. The ultimate goal, in which we will not lose faith, is that of two States — Israel and Palestine — living side by side in peace and security. Norway urges Israel to do its utmost to ease the living conditions of the Palestinians. In our capacity as chairman of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee for assistance to the Palestinian people, Norway remains committed to rebuilding the Palestinian areas. Norway also believes that the parties should avail themselves of the assistance of the international community and individual countries through appropriate monitoring mechanisms. The past year has been a trying one for the United Nations. Multilateralism has come under pressure from those who continue to question the primacy of the United Nations and therefore look elsewhere for solutions. The answer to this challenge is to make the United Nations more effective and thus more relevant in dealing with issues at the top of the international agenda. By increasing the relevance of the United Nations we can increase its authority and legitimacy. Norway shares the Secretary-General’s view that Member States need to take a hard look at today’s United Nations institutions and ask whether they are adequate for the tasks we have before us. The time has come to advance the issue of reform of the Security Council. It is also time to agree on a more relevant agenda for the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights. Norway puts emphasis on reforming the work of the First Committee. We therefore welcome the Secretary-General’s decision to appoint a high-level panel to recommend concrete ways in which to strengthen the functioning of the major bodies of the United Nations and the relationships between them. Norway, together with the Nordic countries, has a long- standing commitment to reform. We stand ready to assist in bringing the initiatives of the Secretary- General to fruition. The aims and ideals of the United Nations are as relevant as ever — to maintain peace and security, to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, to establish conditions for justice and the international rule of law and to promote economic and social development. The world has changed since 1945, but the United Nations has not changed with it. I urge Member States to come together with a renewed sense of unity and purpose, so that we can change our Organization in the collective spirit that lies at the core of the Charter.  ﻿Let me from the outset congratulate the President of this fifty-eighth General Assembly on his election. I have no doubt that his election by the international community is a recognition of his vast diplomatic skills and leadership qualities. His election is also recognition of the coming of age of small island States. I also wish to thank his predecessor Mr. Jan Kavan for his stewardship of the work of the fifty-seventh General Assembly. 16 Please allow me also to pay tribute to the United Nations Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan and his staff for their dedication and commitment in dealing with many pressing international issues that confront us today. I join others delegations in expressing our Government’s sincere condolences to the families of the United Nations staff, including the late Sergio Vieira de Mello, the former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, who lost their lives in Baghdad on 16 August 2003. The attacks were barbaric and against the principles of freedom, democracy and peace as enshrined in the United Nations Charter. They must be condemned in the strongest possible terms. In pursuit of our commitments to combat international terrorism, I am happy to report that Papua New Guinea has substantially complied with United Nations Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Our Parliament recently ratified many of the conventions and protocols to combat global terrorism. Yesterday, I personally deposited four conventions with the Office of the United Nations Secretary-General. Having fulfilled these requirements, Papua New Guinea is now faced with resource constraints and other challenges to implementing the treaty obligations. This situation is further exacerbated by other threats, such as illicit drug trafficking, proliferation of small arms and light weapons, smuggling of humans and money-laundering. In the Pacific Islands region, we have taken positive initiatives to collectively deal with these threats. The Nasonini and Biketawa Declarations agreed to by the Pacific Islands Forum leaders provide the framework for cooperation in dealing with these threats. In the wider Asia/Pacific Region, the Southwest Pacific Dialogue has met twice, in addition to the annual Bali security meetings, to discuss political and security issues facing the region. The Dialogue partners include Indonesia, the Philippines, New Zealand, Australia, Timor-Leste and Papua New Guinea. Whilst issues of greater political and security risks are of concern to us, the real threat at this stage is the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. Small arms and light weapons have not only destabilized regions, sparked, fuelled and prolonged conflicts but also obstructed relief programmes, undermined peace initiatives, exacerbated human rights abuses, hampered development and fostered a culture of violence. There are no international treaties or other legal instruments for dealing effectively with this category of weapons. In this context, Papua New Guinea welcomes the call for the immediate and full implementation of the 2001 Plan of Action on small arms aimed at curbing and eradicating the flow of small arms and light weapons. Let me place this in the context of the crisis in our province of Bougainville where the proliferation of small arms and light weapons contributed to the prolonging of the conflict in the province. With regard to progress in Bougainville, we have completed the second stage of the arms disposal programme, which has been verified by the United Nations. The regional Peace Monitoring Group (PMG) has now been wound down and replaced by the Bougainville Transition Team (BTT). With the help of the United Nations the Team will maintain logistical support for the peace process and assist in other operational areas. I would also like to inform this Assembly that the peace process under the Bougainville Agreement has reached the crucial third stage under the constitutional amendments agreed to by the Papua New Guinea National Parliament. While there are delays, every necessary step is being taken by all parties concerned to ensure that the momentum built to date is not being unduly hampered. My Government therefore seeks the understanding of the international community, especially the members of the Security Council, to help us fully achieve all tasks agreed to under the Bougainville Peace Agreement. This will signal a win- win story for all, the United Nations, our Government and the people of Bougainville. I express our Government’s profound appreciation to the Secretary-General for the invaluable efforts of the United Nations Political Office in Bougainville (UNPOB), including those of Ambassador Noel Sinclair. I also acknowledge and thank our regional neighbours — Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Solomon 17 Islands, Tonga and Vanuatu, for their immense contribution to the peace process. With regard to the conflict in the Solomon Islands, the package of assistance developed and agreed to by the Pacific Islands foreign ministers and later adopted at the Pacific Islands Forum leaders meeting in Auckland, New Zealand, last month has helped restore peace and normalcy in that country. It was undertaken at the request of the Government of the Solomon Islands under the Biketawa Declaration. The Australian-led operation includes the deployment of both civilian police and armed peacekeepers from many of the Pacific island member States, including my own. The cooperation among member States underlines the strength of regional peacekeeping, if done properly. On the Israeli and Palestinian issue, we were encouraged by the general positive signs of progress towards resolving and securing peace based on the United States-led road map. However, this has deteriorated in recent weeks. We call upon all parties involved to exercise maximum restraint and work towards the peaceful settlement of this crisis. We are pleased that the Quartet has recently convened in New York to review the road map. We look forward to their strong leadership in assisting to resolve this long outstanding issue. Fighting and violence will not resolve the conflict. We join the international community’s call for both the Israeli and Palestinian leadership to make renewed efforts at the negotiating table, to cease all hostilities by both sides and to find a permanent solution to the problem. Our belief is that diplomacy is the only means by which States may join as partners and co-operate in bringing about changes which promote peace, economic and social progress for all people, both in principle and, more importantly, in practice. We believe that this too should apply to the situation in Iraq. We support the work being done in the Security Council to adopt a new resolution on a role of the United Nations that would provide a framework for the widest possible participation of United Nations Member States in the reconstruction of Iraq. Regarding United Nations reforms, Papua New Guinea commends the leadership demonstrated by the Secretary-General in the current work being done to reform the main organs of the United Nations, the General Assembly and its subsidiary bodies and the Security Council. We support the expansion of the Security Council in both permanent and non-permanent membership categories. Reforms should take into account the interests of both developed and developing countries. All permanent members in an expanded Council should have similar rights and privileges. However, the use of the veto power should be curtailed and applied only to Chapter VII issues. In doing so, we must move swiftly to complete the reforms of the United Nations system — including the Security Council — so we can restore the capacity of the multilateral system to better serve us all. Papua New Guinea fully endorses the recent Declarations and Plans of Action of the Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg Conferences. We are resolved to meet the challenges of poverty eradication; hunger; illiteracy; environmental degradation; climate change; and HIV/AIDS, malaria and other preventable diseases. We are also committed to addressing issues of good governance. It is the desire of the Government of Papua New Guinea to incorporate the Millennium Development Goals into our national development priorities. We are in the process of adopting the medium-term development strategy, which is aimed at redirecting development to the rural areas where the majority of our people live. We encourage the international community — including all stakeholders in developed and developing countries — to continue to make resources available to fully implement those Declarations and Plans of Action. Like other developing member States of the Pacific Islands Forum, Papua New Guinea is firmly committed to the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. We fully support its 10-year review process, which will take place at the international meeting to be held in Mauritius in August 2004. We call upon our regional and international development partners to support the review process, as was the case with the recent conferences of the least developed and landlocked developing countries. The recent breakdown in the World Trade Organization negotiations in Cancún is of great concern to us all. However, that should not be a barrier to further negotiations to arrive at a fair and equitable 18 arrangement that provides for the interests of all nations. On a more targeted front, the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of countries — of which Papua New Guinea is a member — are now negotiating with the European Union for a possible economic partnership agreement. It is important that the main objective be the eradication of poverty, and therefore that trade preferences enjoyed by ACP countries under successive Lomé Conventions and under the current Cotonou Agreements not be eroded. The small island developing States of the Pacific region are among the custodians of the largest ocean space. The Pacific Ocean is rich in natural marine resources. The recent Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting in Auckland, New Zealand, again reaffirmed the Pacific Islands Regional Oceans Policy, which aims to ensure the future sustainable use of our oceans and their resources by our island communities, in close cooperation with our development partners. The countries of the region, however, have limited human, financial and technological capacities to control, manage and secure those resources for the benefit of our current and future generations. In protecting our vast marine resources, the Pacific Islands Forum leaders reiterate their serious concerns about the shipment of radioactive materials through the region. They also call upon States engaged in those activities to accept full responsibility and liability for compensation for any damage that may result, directly or indirectly, from the transportation of radioactive material through the region. The two accidents that happened in the Atlantic Ocean last year underline the reality of our concerns. Papua New Guinea, together with other small island developing States, continues to express deep concerns about the adverse impact of climate change, climate variability and sea-level rise, particularly on the small, low-lying islands that are already experiencing extreme hardships. We will continue to stress the urgent need for developed countries to exert strong leadership in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Papua New Guinea has signed and ratified both the United Nations Climate Change Convention and the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol paves the way forward for developed countries to fulfil their obligations under the Climate Change Convention. We believe that the larger developing countries also have an obligation to take concrete actions in reducing their gas emissions. We welcome the support of Japan, the European Community and China for the Kyoto Protocol. We urge the United States, the Russian Federation and Australia to join the global efforts aimed at addressing that issue, including ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. Papua New Guinea is also not immune to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Tuberculosis and malaria are again on the rise, so there is an urgent need to find preventive measures for those diseases. I am, however, pleased to report that the Papua New Guinea Parliament this year enacted legislation aimed at dealing with the scourge by assisting with prevention and awareness programmes to reduce and limit the spread of HIV/AIDS, which threatens the lives of our people, particularly mothers and children. In that regard, we thank Australia for its substantial assistance. We also acknowledge continuing support from other development partners, including the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS and the World Health Organization. We also support the work of the United Nations in relation to the protection and advancement of the rights of women and children. While we have ratified the appropriate conventions, we realize that we must do more. We acknowledge the support being provided by our development partners, including United Nations agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme and UNICEF. Papua New Guinea fully concurs with the calls by the international community to reform and restructure the charters and mandates of the two Bretton Woods institutions. Their lending policies should be made more lenient and flexible with regard to assisting developing countries in their developmental efforts. Among the greatest achievements of the United Nations is the process of decolonization. But that process will not be completed — as it must be — until the remaining 16 Non-Self-Governing Territories have exercised their inalienable right to self-determination. The United Nations should continue to monitor developments in New Caledonia, Tokelau and the other 14 Non-Self-Governing Territories on the United Nations decolonization list on a case-by-case basis. Neither size, remoteness nor population density should 19 be allowed to limit the exercise of this inalienable right. The Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting held in Auckland last month once again reaffirmed its support for that principle. In conclusion, I want to reaffirm Papua New Guinea’s firm commitment to the timeless principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. We also strongly advocate that it is Papua New Guinea’s position that diplomacy, through positive dialogue, is the key to addressing these challenges. Finally, Papua New Guinea believes that a greater challenge for all United Nations Member States is to work together as genuine partners. That will serve as an effective tool for implementing our collective goal: to create a better and more secure world, both today and for future generations. ﻿Let me convey my congratulations to Mr. Julian Hunte on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. We are confident that this Assembly stands to benefit greatly from his diplomatic experience and skills. Like others, I pledge the full support and cooperation of the Lao delegation to him as he undertakes his duties and express the hope that our deliberations on many of the most pressing world issues will be fruitful. Since the last time we convened, the world has gone through major changes and challenges. Although peace, dialogue and cooperation for development continue to prevail today across many regions, we have been bearing witness to a world beset by terror, civil wars, armed conflicts and violence, acts of aggression and interference in the internal affairs of States. In handling these problems, we believe it is incumbent upon all of us to show patience, courage and determination and to strive to solve them through dialogue, diplomacy and political means. Towards that end, we should continue to seek multilateral routes through the United Nations. In this regard, we should like to make special mention of Secretary-General Kofi Annan. While we wish him more success as he endeavours to defend and promote the principles and ideals of this universal Organization, we can only express great appreciation for the efforts he has made. At present, the problems plaguing our planet, alas, are not limited to those considered to be political or military. There are also those that affect the environmental, social and economic fronts. More striking are the issues of global warming, pollution, natural disasters, HIV/AIDS, incurable diseases, poverty and underdevelopment, the crises of refugees, debt and economic stagnation, which have yet to find effective solutions. The severity of these problems is even more acute in a globalized world in which the gap between developed and developing countries is widening. We should therefore strive effectively to address these problems in order to meet the Millennium Development Goals adopted three years ago by this Assembly. Standing here today and recommitting ourselves to meeting those noble Goals, we want a world where poverty and hunger are alleviated; where education is offered to every child; where women have the same opportunities as men; where incurable diseases are effectively combated; and where the world continues to build partnership and cooperation for sustained economic growth and sustainable development. For many years, the land-locked developing countries have attached a particular interest to their special needs and problems. As Chairman of the 31- member Group of Land-Locked Developing Countries for the past four years, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has spared no effort in bringing the special needs and problems of land-locked developing countries to the forefront of the international arena. As a result of this long-standing concerted effort, the International Ministerial Conference of Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries and Donor Countries and International Financial and Development 14 Institutions on Transit Transport Cooperation was held last month in Kazakhstan as the first-ever United Nations conference of its kind. The meeting adopted the Almaty Declaration and Programme of Action. We are delighted that this global Programme of Action addresses, first and foremost, the special needs and problems of the landlocked developing countries, while taking into account the legitimate concerns of transit developing countries. In this respect, all stakeholders are urged to fully and effectively implement the Almaty Programme of Action in the years to come. Since its inception, the United Nations has performed multiple activities in various areas, such as the maintenance of peace and security, socio-economic development, humanitarian assistance, the promotion of international law, human rights and the protection of the environment. In these endeavours, the United Nations has achieved many successes, including in the field of socio-economic development. However, in many other areas, still more effort is required in order to attain better results. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan said in his annual report this year, “in the area of peace and security, it has been a trying year for the United Nations. The war in Iraq severely tested the principle of collective security and the resilience of the Organization.” (A/58/1, para. 2) In the light of this, and given the present international situation, the Security Council, the main body for the maintenance of international peace and security, should play its full role in securing peace and security in the world, as stipulated in the Charter. The Security Council members, especially the permanent members, should do everything possible to ensure that this organ effectively discharges its duties in the maintenance of peace and security. A safe and secure world would enable all nations to better promote their socio- economic development. The international community is therefore urged to deploy serious efforts towards this end. In a world where cooperation for development is widespread, where in every region there is economic integration to achieve common benefits, it is regrettable that the economic, commercial and financial restrictions imposed on Cuba continue. We reaffirm the support of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic for the General Assembly resolution calling for the lifting of such a restrictive policy, with the aim of benefiting all peoples in the region as well as the world at large. With regard to the Middle East, we continue to be gravely concerned about the ongoing violence and disproportionate use of force that have brought nothing but destruction and death to both Palestine and Israel. We urge the two sides to exercise the utmost restraint and engage in earnest negotiations so that peace and cooperation may eventually ensue in the region. If that is done, by 2005 the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people to establish an independent and viable State, living side by side with Israel in peace and security, could become a reality. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic has followed the recent developments in the Korean peninsula with great attention. We render our full support to the six-party talks hosted in Beijing in August by the Government of China, which contributed actively. We are pleased with the significant progress achieved by this meeting. We very much hope that the dialogue process will be pursued to address the nuclear issue in parallel with the security of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. This would no doubt contribute to the realization of a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula, the assurance of security for all countries in North-East Asia and the peaceful reunification of the two Koreas. Over the past year, the Lao people of all ethnic groups have pursued their national development in unity and harmony. We are delighted that, through the promotion of the untapped potential of all domestic economic sectors and the expansion of cooperation with the international community, the pace of national economic growth has continuously increased; the livelihood of the people, particularly those in the rural areas, has been further improved; and, last but not least, political stability and social order have been ensured and strengthened. In order to free the country from underdevelopment, apart from our domestic effort, we have attached great importance to the achievements made in our increased effort to implement the regional integration of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). We highly value the continued development of cooperation between ASEAN and the People’s Republic of China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, India and other dialogue partners. Furthermore, we are pleased with the new chapter in the 15 strengthening of cooperation between ASEAN and the United States, in particular the signing of the bilateral trade agreement between the Governments of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and the United States in Vientiane on 19 September this year. In this regard, I wish to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to friendly countries and international organizations for the invaluable assistance and support rendered to the cause of our national development. As it enters this new century, humankind has a strong aspiration for peace and cooperation for development across the globe. In accordance with the Charter and international law, we should exert our collective efforts to build a better world. In this spirit, our delegation once again calls for cooperation and unity in designing and implementing action-oriented measures to tackle the challenges and problems plaguing our planet. If we do this, future generations will commend us for all our efforts in establishing conditions for their peaceful lives and prosperity.  ﻿Peru has no doubt that multilateralism is the best instrument for confronting global challenges, as well as for guaranteeing peace and international security. For that reason, the United Nations is indispensable. All Member States must have the conviction to strengthen it, to contribute to its institutional regeneration and to reform it. With a reformed United Nations, we will continue our struggle against poverty; we will maintain the world development agenda; we will assure democracy; and we will fight decisively against drug trafficking and international terrorism. The terrorist attacks taking place in different areas of the world and the threats to peace in several regions create an international climate of instability and insecurity that calls for urgent solutions. Terrorism conspires against the democracies of the world. Terrorism conspires against the health of the world economy. Terrorism contributes to making the poor even poorer. Peru strongly condemns the terrorist attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad and wishes to pay sincere tribute to all the victims, in particular to Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General. We cannot accept terrorism as a political tool. In our case, the 20 years of violence bequeathed by the Sendero Luminoso is a hard lesson to cope with. According to the final report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, recently submitted to my Government, thousands of lives were lost and more than $30 billion in losses were reported. This report is 13 the result of a resolute political decision of our Government to make sure that Peru never again has to face irrational acts of terror. Truth must also be a means to prevent impunity and to lead us to reconciliation with justice. My Government is firmly struggling against impunity. That is why we consider that the fugitives who fled Peru when the corrupt regime of the past decade was overthrown should answer to justice for the gravity of the crimes they committed. We will insure these people a fair trial and all the guarantees of due process, within the framework of the Inter-American Convention on Human Rights and Peruvian law. That is why we hope that our requests for extradition will be taken into account. Democratic States have the responsibility to avoid impunity. In this regard, the Peruvian State wishes in this Assembly to thank the 20 friendly countries that have announced their decision to detain anyone on the list of extraditables if they enter their territories. Poverty, social exclusion and fundamentalist ideologies are among the causes of the current crises. The hopes of our countries to be part of an inclusive globalization are not bearing fruit. Despite some achievements at the national level, there is a wide chasm to bridge if we are to build such an inclusive globalization. For example, in the case of Peru, despite an unfavourable international environment the economy grew by 5.2 per cent last year, one of the highest rates in Latin America. Inflation was below 1 per cent, international reserves rose to their highest level yet, and exports reached unprecedented figures. However, we must concede that all these indicators are not enough to make the common people feel the benefits of such macroeconomic achievements in their own pockets. Today, it is necessary for the global economy to reach an annual average growth of 7 to 8 per cent if we wish to reduce poverty and to create employment. If we in the developing world, particularly in Latin America, grow by 6 or 7 per cent, it will barely be enough to recover the per capita income of 1970. We have to achieve adequate growth as soon as possible. The poor cannot wait another 15 years for their economies to grow in a sustained manner that will reduce poverty. Democratic governance in Latin America is at risk. There is no doubt that there is a correlation between the health of the world economy, social inclusion and democratic governance. World leaders cannot close their eyes. There is no possible governance without a reduction of poverty. We must be creative and courageous in order to ensure that Wall Street's macroeconomic requirements meet the expectations of Main Street. Last year before this Assembly, I highlighted the need to defend democracy from market turbulence by creating innovative financial mechanisms. We said that the time had come to build a new global consensus to reaffirm democracy and re-evaluate development with social equity. Since then, Peru has been working on a series of initiatives in this regard. Last May, 19 democracies of Latin America and the Caribbean, members of the Rio Group over which I have the honour to preside approved a key document that we call the Cusco Consensus. This document comprises four Peruvian initiatives on innovative financial mechanisms that allow us to finance democratic governance in the region; to increase public investment in roads, hospitals and schools; to create jobs; and to supplement private investment. In relation to one of these proposals, last August, jointly with the President of Brazil, Luiz In·cio Lula da Silva, we decided to work together on the establishment of the South American Infrastructure Authority project, which will operate as a fiduciary agency to facilitate the financing of investment projects for the integration of South America. I am sure that that experience can be duplicated in other parts of the world. Likewise, we have signed a memorandum of understanding on physical and economic integration to set into motion three axes of development integration in Peru, Bolivia, Brazil and Ecuador on the road to South America's integration. Accordingly, Peru signed an agreement that will lead to the creation of a free trade zone with MERCOSUR. From this international forum, we would like reiterate that those efforts and achievements in the area of integration constitute decisive steps on the path towards building a South American community of nations. However, I wish to point out that, beyond the decisions that two or more countries of the subregion may take, it will be essential for the international community to commit itself to the initiatives emanating from an exercise in collective reflection. 14 Developing nations are concerned about the alarming increase in external vulnerabilities resulting from instability in financial flows and their impact on investment levels and economic growth in our region. Those countries also perceive the presence of protectionism in the area of trade, in particular on the part of certain industrialized nations. I would like to be frank in this connection: we ask developed countries not to demand that we open our markets while they protect their products with billions of dollars in subsidies every year, especially in the agricultural sector. Our countries can no longer withstand asymmetrical relations in the area of trade. The time has come to build a two-way business highway that is more transparent and predictable. We are being asked to open up our markets in the agricultural sector while there are still countries that are investing billions of dollars every day to subsidize their own products. Do not ask us to practice something that you do not practice yourselves. Our countries are aware of the fact that we have to be competitive, but we must build that two-way commercial highway. Peru is especially concerned about the negative results of the recently held ministerial conference of the World Trade Organization in Cancun, which, despite some progress, was unable to reach consensus. There is a continuing desire for multilateralism and free trade in Peru. We therefore trust that there will be a return to negotiation in the next few months so as to realize the goals set out at Doha, which placed development foursquare on the agenda of the WTO. We have an obligation to build a more just, secure and humane world. That is why today I ask the United Nations and our great friend of peace, Secretary- General Kofi Annan, to exercise their great authority and prestige to promote within the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank and the member countries of the Group of 8 a wide debate on the innovative financial mechanisms that will make it possible to finance democratic governance in the region; increase public investment in schools, hospitals and roads; generate jobs and promote private investment. That is the only way by which globalization can be inclusive, and by which governance can be strengthened. May God bless peace in the world.  ﻿I should like first of all to join earlier speakers in congratulating you, Sir, The Honourable Julian Robert Hunte, Minister for External Affairs, International Trade and Civil Aviation of Saint Lucia, on your election as President of the General Assembly and to wish you every success as you carry out your duties. I would also like to extend our appreciation to Mr. Jan Kavan for the very efficient way in which he organized the work of the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly. We would like at the outset to express our profound condolences to the whole family of the United Nations for the loss of Sergio Vieira de Mello, a brave and able diplomat, and the other United Nations personnel who died as a result of the deadly attack against the United Nations premises in Baghdad. I would like to take this opportunity to outline the position of Uzbekistan on the key issues on the agenda of this forum. As is well known, since the events of 11 September 2001, the world has been on the verge of a fundamental transformation caused by new challenges and threats to security in many regions of our planet. This harsh reality unequivocally increases the responsibility of the United Nations as a unique international institution whose role cannot be substituted by anyone or anything. It also increases the responsibility of each and every nation to preserve peace and stability in countering threats to modern civilization such as international terrorism, extremism, and the ever-growing illegal drug trade. Given our immediate proximity to Afghanistan, we, the nations of Central Asia, know at first hand what these threats are and what they can bring to the world, if timely steps are not taken to prevent and eliminate them at their very core. In this context, it is difficult to overestimate the significance of the actions of the international anti-terrorist coalition led by the United States of America and of the International Security Assistance Force, which are doing so much to 12 revive and restore peace and stability in long-suffering Afghanistan. In the meantime, despite the prerequisites for a full-scale peace process in Afghanistan and sustained development of the region, the peace in the country is still fragile. We believe that the resources of the international community, major international organizations and donor nations, as well as the capabilities of neighbouring countries, should be more intensely engaged, as they are essential to post-conflict reconstruction. Afghanistan should become a harmoniously integrated part of Central Asia, and this will positively contribute to the enhancement of stability and security in the country and region. In view of the exceptional importance of the socio-economic rehabilitation of Afghanistan, Uzbekistan is rendering assistance to the Afghan people in the reconstruction of damaged roads and the construction of new ones, as well as supplying electricity to the northern provinces of Afghanistan. Uzbek specialists have built eight large bridges along the road from Mazari Sharif to Kabul. Uzbekistan is also delivering humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. More than 1 million tonnes of humanitarian cargo have been shipped through our country’s territory. We will continue to cooperate with international organizations, foremost with the United Nations, in this regard. The lessons learned in recent years have confirmed that overcoming the consequences of terrorism and extremism is more difficult than their timely prevention. Moreover, the aggressive drive of terrorists to acquire weapons of mass destruction has become a new reality. The international community should confront these far-reaching plans using an effective and streamlined system of measures to prevent access by terrorists to arms, new technologies, and dual-use material. Uzbekistan welcomes the progress made in the development of legal instruments aimed at combating international terrorism. Tangible results, however, can be achieved only by creating a global system of comprehensive cooperation. That is why we support the work of the Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee. We are confident that the regional anti- terrorism centre of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, established to collaborate with other similar centres, will prove to be an important component of the global anti-terrorist system. To combat the threat of international terrorism and extremism, it is important to confront the hotbeds all over the world of extremism and the dissemination of the ideology of fanatical ideologies. Despite current measures to isolate them, these centres still possess substantial financial resources and the capacity to influence the hearts and minds of young people and mobilize them for their far-reaching objectives. In addition to the measures being implemented today, it would be desirable to establish a special United Nations programme to promote education and awareness among young people and develop in them a strong aversion to extremist ideology. Uzbekistan maintains that the United Nations can and must play a more significant role in resolving the most urgent issues of today’s world. For this purpose, first and foremost, United Nations programmes must become more concrete and effective so that they can better target the real needs of regions. In this regard, I would like to present the following views. First, Uzbekistan unequivocally supports further development of regional integration and considers the Organization of Central Asian Cooperation (OCAC) as a crucial mechanism of multilateral collaboration among the States of the region. We consider the Organization’s economic component, as well as the establishment of water, energy, transport and communication consortia within its framework, as a priority. The need to overcome the isolation of the region in terms of transport and communication is of utmost importance among the objectives vital for sustainable development of the Central Asian States. In this context, I would particularly like to draw Members’ attention to the multilateral initiative to establish a trans-Afghan transport corridor, which would provide landlocked nations that encounter difficulties in accessing world markets with new access to seaports. Undoubtedly, the implementation of this project would boost trade and economic ties and fundamentally change geopolitical and economic realities in the region. We believe it is high time for relevant United Nations agencies, above all the United Nations Development Programme, United Nations Industrial Development Organization and the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, to develop programmes aimed at increasing the volume of aid to 13 the region’s States and Afghanistan for the purpose of developing transport infrastructure and providing real support in communications projects. Secondly, Uzbekistan calls for strict compliance by all nations with a global nuclear non-proliferation regime. Today, in our view, the significance of the initiative of Uzbekistan and other countries of the region to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia has become paramount. We greatly appreciate the efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, and the United Nations Department for Disarmament Affairs in supporting the expert group, which is currently working on a draft treaty. The establishment of the zone is nearly complete, and, to legitimize it, Uzbekistan calls on all permanent Security Council members to develop a consolidated position with the region’s States on the provisions of the draft treaty and its protocol. Thirdly, Central Asia is facing a wide-scale assault by international drug cartels, which are using the destructive power of international terrorism to protect drug routes. Under these conditions, there is a need for concerted efforts and effective international programmes under the auspices of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. We believe that the establishment in Tashkent of the regional information and coordination centre to combat transboundary crime, proposed by President Islam Karimov during the visit of Secretary-General to Uzbekistan last October, could become a tangible contribution by the United Nations. We count on the support of the United Nations and donor countries in making this initiative a reality. Today, the United Nations faces the need to adapt its mechanisms to the realities of the new world, which, we think, is dependent upon the prompt completion of the process of reform of the Organization. There is an urgent need to reorganize the Security Council so that it reflects current realities. An expanded Security Council should include both developed and developing nations. We reiterate our call for inclusion of Germany and Japan in the Security Council as permanent members. In conclusion, I would like to note that the principally new approaches taken by the United Nations to the realities and prospects of Central Asia will ultimately meet the fundamental interests of the entire world community. I am confident that this session will give new momentum to the joint efforts of Member States to counter the threats and challenges of global and regional security.  ﻿I would like to start by congratulating Mr. Julian Hunte on his 33 election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eight session. We wish him great success in the fulfilment of this difficult and lofty task. The current session is taking place at one of the most troubled times in our era. The recent events in the Gulf region were a severe test of the capacity and readiness of the United Nations to provide appropriate responses to the challenges presently faced by the international community. The impact of these events somehow diminished the cohesion of our world Organization and weakened trust among its Members. There was a failure in the international security system, which puts us in the position of needing immediately to make it more effective. In fact, the present international security system, created after the last great war — despite having to date prevented the outbreak of a new world conflict — has shown signs of an incompatibility in the global collective security interests of the Members of the United Nations in relation to the new challenges of this millennium. We are in urgent need of an integrated system capable of dealing effectively with the major threats to international stability at the outset of this twenty-first century, specifically terrorism and international organized crime; weapons of mass destruction; internal conflicts, which, unfortunately, continue to plague the African continent in particular; generalized poverty; and HIV/AIDS. Terrorism is today the most direct threat to the security of our countries, as can be seen from the attacks that in the past two years have killed thousands of civilians in the United States, Russia, Africa and Asia. With regard to armed conflicts, the situation continues to require urgent attention. During the last decade, approximately one third of African States were either directly or indirectly affected by internal conflicts, which resulted in costs as high as $15 billion a year, and caused hundreds of thousands of deaths, massive displacements of people, famine and malnutrition, and the spread of diseases such as HIV/AIDS. The prevalence of conflicts in Africa is not only the result of the divisions inherited from the post- colonial period and the cold war and of ethnic and religious differences. It is also a consequence of factors such as the fragility of national institutions, the marginalization of the African continent from the world economy, the illegal exploitation of natural resources and the resulting arms proliferation, and the weak monitoring of national borders. This situation must be swiftly reversed, since it can endanger the future of millions of Africans and increase the risk of certain areas of the continent’s becoming true sanctuaries for terrorist organizations. Improving United Nations political institutions and security systems constitutes the most effective method of addressing the threats facing humankind. It is therefore necessary to establish new mechanisms outside of the traditional strategic doctrines. The international legal documents created by the United Nations, and the current alliances between States, have proved insufficient to respond adequately and in a consensual manner to such threats, particularly when they are posed by entities that are not themselves States. Because of its universal nature, the United Nations plays a central role in the management of current and future challenges. But that is not enough. It is crucial that that role be performed within a more democratic and participative framework, particularly with regard to major decisions on international peace and security. Iraq and other parts of the Middle East are the main hotbeds of tension in the world today, and the combined efforts of the United Nations are being focused on that region. The continued loss of life in Iraq — with most of those killed being innocent civilians, including United Nations officials, among them the late Special Representative of the Secretary- General, Sergio Vieira de Mello — is a reminder of the need for increased support by the international community to ensure the security of the Iraqi people, the building of new institutions and the beginning of the reconstruction of the country. The will of the international community, and certainly that of the Iraqi people, is for Iraq to become, as soon as possible, a viable, democratic State with institutions validated by its people, and a country living in peace with its neighbours. The achievement of this goal implies the establishment of a political and institutional framework in which the United Nations plays an active role, specifically in the pacification and unification of the country; in the internal political dialogue; in the process of national reconciliation; and in the establishment of new democratic institutions. 34 Angola hopes that the present convergence of positions among the members of the Security Council on the role of the United Nations in Iraq will facilitate an understanding relative to the transitional process in general and to the transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqi people. Angola deplores the loss of civilian life and the material damage caused by the escalation of the conflict in the Middle East. The rekindling of violence between Palestinians and Israelis represents the greatest danger to the implementation of the road map for peace, whose ultimate objective is the signing of an agreement for the creation of an independent, viable Palestinian State, living side by side and in peace with Israel and its other neighbours. In our view, that is the only solution capable of putting a definite end to the cycle of violence. The end, last year, of the armed conflict in Angola, and the success of the peace process, are among the most extraordinary political achievements seen in sub-Saharan Africa in recent years. With the attainment of peace in Angola, the Southern African region became, for the first time in several decades, a zone free from conflict, and it can now focus its human and material resources on reconstruction and development efforts. Angola today is a country in its post-conflict stage. It is committed to the tasks of overcoming the heavy burden of a 40-year conflict, focusing on the strengthening of its democratic process — which even during the difficult war period was never abandoned by the Government — and fully resuming its legitimate role within the regional and international context. As a result of the impact of the conflict on the human, economic, social and financial structures of the country, and given the inequities inherited from our colonial past, the current post-conflict stage — which will lead to the building of a new society in Angola — is a difficult and painful one, and this has been an obvious impediment to an immediate response to the legitimate aspirations of Angolan citizens. The challenges that confront Angola are enormous — perhaps immeasurable. The main challenges include the resettlement of more than 4 million displaced persons and 450,000 refugees; the social reintegration of more than 80,000 former military personnel and their respective families; the resolution of the problem of absolute poverty, which now afflicts more than half of the Angolan population; and the reconstruction of the social and economic infrastructure. At the same time, in spite of the scarcity of available resources, we are creating the necessary conditions to hold elections in the near future. Despite our numerous problems and challenges, there is hardly any assistance from the international community for Angola, as compared with other countries in similar circumstances, some of which received an immediate response to their appeals, even though they lacked de jure institutions. We would like to believe that such treatment is not the result of any form of discrimination against our country. There is no example in modern history of a State, rich or poor, that, in the aftermath of a devastating and destructive war such as that which afflicted Angola, has managed to overcome the burden left by such a war and rise again without outside assistance. In Angola, this reconstruction effort has, up to now, been borne solely by the Angolans themselves, in spite of the reiterated promises that the only factor that hindered the supply of aid to our reconstruction was the pacification of our country. We hereby renew, therefore, our appeal to the international community to help Angola in its domestic reconstruction effort. To this end, my delegation will submit a draft resolution on international assistance and the reconstruction and economic development of Angola, which proposes that an international donor conference be convened. We are counting on the support of the Assembly. Angola also welcomes the progress made in the area of peace and security in other regions of the continent, especially the Democratic Republic of Congo. The role of Angola, as well as that of its partners, was crucial in preventing a situation of chaos and disintegration in the territory of that brotherly country, with which we share a long border, and in convincing the parties to give up war and choose instead a negotiated political solution. The Congolese patriots have shown signs of great maturity in guaranteeing the success of the peace process and the transformation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo into a viable country that does not constitute a threat to the stability of its border regions. Angola will continue to be open to strengthening the traditional relations of friendship and cooperation it 35 has maintained with the authorities of the interim Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as with future authorities that are legitimately elected by popular vote. There is still a stalemate with regard to the situation in the Western Sahara. Difficulties regarding the holding of a referendum on the self-determination of the territory are a hindrance to the search for a definitive solution to this question. Angola urges the parties involved to show flexibility and seek a political solution that enables the people of that territory to decide freely about their own destiny. Today, as one part of the world, particularly the industrialized countries, enjoys considerable wealth, 40 per cent of the 600 million Africans continue to survive on less than one dollar a day. In fact, Africa continues to show the lowest social and economic development indicators, and those levels are becoming even worse, due to the marginalization of the African countries in the progress of globalization and within the world economy, where trade and capital share are only 1 per cent. Africa is also the continent that benefits the least in terms of foreign direct investment, receiving only 7 per cent of the investment targeted at the developing countries. External debt has been a huge obstacle to the development process because repayment of the debt service alone has depleted the already-limited national resources of the African States. Angola supports the cancellation of the external debt service of the least developed countries, particularly those in the African continent. The macroeconomic measures imposed by the Bretton Woods institutions within the framework of the structural adjustment programme have not always been able to help the African continent overcome its international economic problems. In many cases, that has led to controversial results. Based on such results, experience has shown that, in fact, the financial institutions very often do not take into account the idiosyncrasies of each country and frequently put the Governments in the position of choosing between meeting the conditions imposed by the financial institutions or meeting the real needs of their people. Angola hopes that, with the establishment of the African Union and the launching of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, the tragic situation in which the African continent finds itself today can be alleviated by setting priorities and giving special attention to immediate economic development issues.   ﻿My delegation celebrates the wisdom of the United Nations in choosing one of our distinguished Caribbean statesmen, Mr. Julian Hunte, to preside over this fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I assure you, Sir, that the energy and industry that you will bring to our work will produce very meaningful results in this very important session. We continue to be fortunate to have the guidance and strength of our Secretary-General, whose skill and compassion are especially needed today. His words last Tuesday echoed strong and true, and we should all take heed. And speaking of all, we need to respect the principle of universality of our Organization. The time has come to admit Taiwan to membership of the United Nations. Taiwan has proven itself to be an exemplary member of the international community with a deep sense of solidarity with small and poor nations. Belize’s Prime Minister has said: “When we turn our attention to the international stage there is greater cause for anxiety. Let us ask ourselves: After all the developments in building the international system and crystallizing international law from 1945 to the present, which of the following fundamental principles are respected in practice or indeed safe in theory: the peaceful settlement of disputes; the right to self-determination, sovereignty and territorial integrity; non-interference in the internal affairs of States; the right of peoples to have the social and political system of their choice; respect for social, economic and political human rights; not to use force or the threat of force to settle disputes; respect for the international rule of law; abiding by the Charter of the United Nations; and working towards a world governance based on multilateralism and the rule of reason, rather than of force? “Which of those is safe? Indeed, in the international arena … we do seem to be in free fall towards barbarism”. Barbarism may not be new, but there does seem to be a greater tolerance for it and we do seem to be 22 more powerless to contain it. In a world riddled with fear and dominated by terrorism, including State terrorism, we need to concentrate on what needs to be done to save our humanity. As we contemplate the international arena, with multilateralism under threat and the development of peoples blocked by the practices of the rich and powerful, we can take comfort in one thing — that, yes, in the end ideas are more powerful than arms. And our ideas — we the United Nations of the world — are clearly and powerfully set out in our Charter. Yes, the Charter needs reform; we need urgently to democratize our practice. Small States make up the majority of our membership and elementary democracy demands that we have a greater say than our Charter presently allows us, but the basic principles of the Charter remain valid. The fundamentals are in place. Article 1 of the Charter states the fundamental purpose of the United Nations: To maintain international peace and security, and to that end to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace, and for the suppression of acts of aggression or other breaches of the peace. Article 24 of the Charter confers on the Security Council primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Under Article 42, should the Security Council consider that measures short of the use of force would be inadequate or have proved to be inadequate, it may take such action by air, sea, or land forces as may be necessary to maintain or restore international peace and security. Such action must, of course, be agreed collective action, not unilateral action. I ask members of the Assembly: Is there any part of that we do not understand? It seems perfectly simple and clear to us small States, which depend on the United Nations Charter and on respect for international principles and international law for our very existence. We are confronted with the question: Are we as an Organization irrelevant? And I say: only if we make ourselves irrelevant. And we do that only if we are determined to self-destruct. We can call here for many lofty objectives, as contained in our Millennium Development Goals. We can pronounce on the many injustices facing so many peoples and countries in the present world dispensation, but all of that would be futile if our very United Nations should cease to be effective or become irrelevant. That is why I have restricted my statement to one plea to nations large and small, powerful or weak: Keep the United Nations alive, respect its Charter, abide by agreed international principles and international law. That is all we ask, nothing more. Above all, let us not give up what it has cost us so much time and effort, so much blood, to bring to a modest but important stage — our multilateral system. All civilized nations would surely agree to this plea rather than plunge the world into barbarism. Multilateralism or chaos. Long Live the United Nations! ﻿It gives me pleasure to begin my statement by congratulating the President, both personally and as representative of his country, Saint Lucia, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. Given his skills and experience, we are confident that he will competently lead our deliberations as we consider the pressing global issues that face the Organization at this critical time. He may be assured of my delegation’s readiness to fully cooperate with him in order to ensure the successful fulfilment of his mandate. I wish also to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his active and positive role and for his remarkable contribution to the promotion of international cooperation. In addition, I wish to express once again our appreciation and gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts to bring peace and stability to the various troubled regions throughout the world. Mr. Annan deserves special tribute for his extraordinary performance in maintaining the integrity of the United Nations and its leading role in moving the global agenda forward, despite the enormous challenges and high risks facing the Organization and its personnel. The terrorist attack against the United Nations office in Baghdad last month, which claimed the lives of the Special Representative of the Secretary- General, Sergio Vieira de Mello, and of a number of his colleagues, is yet further clear testimony of those challenging difficulties and immense dangers. Another similar terrorist attack occurred two days ago, and again the target was the United Nations presence in Iraq. From this rostrum, I reiterate our condemnation of that terrorist act and of all other similar acts that 30 have occurred in the cities of Baghdad and Najaf. Those attacks claimed the lives of highly respected religious leaders and symbols and other innocent victims. We believe that such acts are aimed not only at the underpinnings of security, of stability and of the people’s sense of confidence, but also at the noble values that we all seek to restore and consolidate in brotherly Iraq. Perhaps the most appropriate and resolute response to such criminal acts is a two-track approach. The United Nations, together with the international Powers interested in the Iraqi question who are also seeking to establish security and stability in Iraq, should stay the course and resolutely face the continuing violence there. In the meantime, further efforts should focus on enabling the Iraqi people to consolidate national legitimacy and to develop national institutions. In parallel, efforts for Iraq’s reconstruction should be intensified in order to make up for many long years of deprivation, oppression, destruction and mismanagement painfully endured by the Iraqi people under the now-defunct regime that was removed by concerted international action anchored in Security Council resolutions related to Iraq’s liberation. Kuwait strongly condemns the inhuman crimes and practices perpetrated by the previous regime in Iraq. The most recent manifestation of those atrocities was the discovery of numerous mass-grave sites in various parts of the country. Those graves contained the remains of thousands of innocent human beings — particularly those of Kuwaitis and third-country nationals — among which 33 were identified by forensic experts as having been prisoners who were executed by shooting in 1991 and 1992. That is further proof of the regime’s brutality and of its total disregard for international treaties and for the norms of international humanitarian law. Above and beyond the crimes themselves, for the past 13 years the regime persistently denied any knowledge of those prisoners’ whereabouts. It also ignored relevant decisions of the Security Council and of other international and regional organizations calling for its cooperation in disclosing the fate of those victims, only aggravating their relatives’ anguish. Having said that, I should like to add that Kuwait will pursue its efforts, in coordination with the United Nations, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Tripartite Commission, the interim Coalition Authority and the citizens of Iraq, to determine the fate of the remaining Kuwaiti and third-country prisoners and detainees. Furthermore, we shall help in hunting down the perpetrators in order to bring them to justice for the crimes they committed against those innocent, defenceless victims. Responding to its national and legal obligations, Kuwait joined the coalition forces in their endeavour to enforce Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq. Thus, we provided all possible facilities within the framework of that legal structure, which eventually led to Iraq’s salvation from an oppressive, tyrannical regime. Let me take this opportunity to say that we welcome that regime’s removal from Iraq. We congratulate the brotherly people of Iraq on their liberation, and we wish them prosperity in a secure and stable Iraq. In addition, Kuwait welcomes the Security Council’s adoption of resolutions 1483 (2003) and 1500 (2003), on Iraq. We also invite United Nations Member States to join the ongoing international efforts to restore security and stability to Iraq. That will help the people of Iraq to rebuild their homeland and to re- establish the political and constitutional institutions of a national Government. In that regard, we emphasize the central and significant role of the United Nations in this political process. Immediately after the collapse of the former regime in Iraq, Kuwait reached out to the brotherly people of Iraq with a wide array of humanitarian assistance. Our response came in the spirit of our common Arab and Islamic heritage. Kuwait rushed material and financial aid to several local and international organizations, as well as to the United Nations specialized agencies operating in Iraq. We also contributed directly to the restoration of electrical power, health care, educational services and water supplies to various areas in the country. In addition, Kuwait set up a humanitarian operations centre to facilitate and coordinate relief aid activities and international emergency relief efforts to deliver aid to Iraq. Kuwait will continue its efforts to ensure the delivery of all kinds of assistance, which we hope will alleviate the suffering of the brotherly people of Iraq. Now it is our fervent hope that Iraq will safely cross the dire straits through which it is passing and that it will recover its security and stability and will safeguard its independence and territorial integrity. All that will enable the people of Iraq to recommit their 31 resources and energies to their country’s reconstruction so that Iraq will reclaim its legitimate and natural status in the region and in the world. Indeed, we are fully confident that Iraq will overcome the challenges of this critical stage of its history, because it is endowed with enormous natural riches, a profound cultural heritage and skilled human resources. The Government and people of Kuwait will stand with Iraq at this stage and we look forward to enjoying good, brotherly relations with a free and united Iraq. We hope that our bilateral relations will be characterized by mutual trust, respect and good- neighbourliness, and governed by established treaties and United Nations resolutions. This will help us leave the past behind and shift our focus onto building a better future that will contribute to enhancing security and stability in the region. Since the tragic events of 11 September 2001 that struck the United States, the phenomenon of terrorism has dominated the global agenda. Kuwait strongly condemned those terrorist acts and all similar crimes committed in other countries. These are horrendous acts of terrorism that have created new realities on the international scene, including a universal conviction that terrorism in its pernicious manifestations is actually an evil not exclusively associated with one nation, religion or culture. All of us also realize that the fight against this evil is an international responsibility to be borne by all Member States, not just one State or a certain group of States. Therefore, we maintain that the United Nations remains the most appropriate forum for examining this issue and developing the most effective means to combat and eventually to stem it. To that end, the universal signature, endorsement and enforcement by all Member States of the 12 international agreements relating to terrorism would represent a real breakthrough in ensuring the deployment of the most effective means to contain and eliminate this pandemic. As Kuwait firmly reiterates its categorical rejection of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, as well as its renunciation of all acts of violence and extremism, it condemns the vicious orchestrated campaign being waged against a sister State — the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia — by some American media agencies. Instead, we commend Saudi Arabia for its concrete and significant contributions to the global campaign against terrorism, bearing in mind the fact that Saudi Arabia itself has been the target of terrorists and has suffered as a result. Kuwait fully endorses all measures taken by the Saudi Government in its drive to eliminate terrorism and to consolidate regional security and stability. In the same context, Kuwait will maintain its efforts, in coordination with the States of the region and the United Nations, to fight terrorism and to further strengthen the measures it has enforced in order completely to fulfil its international obligations, especially those set forth in Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Thirty-six years have passed since the oppressive Israeli occupation of the land of the Palestinian people, who continue to suffer an ongoing decline in their economic and social living conditions as a result of Israel’s policies and practices, which contravene international and humanitarian laws and norms. Kuwait is following with grave concern the recent escalation in the occupied Palestinian territories. Despite the intense international efforts led by the Quartet, which yielded the road map for the settlement of the conflict within a specific time frame with a view to the attainment by the Palestinian people of their legitimate political rights, Israel persists in its policy of backtracking on its commitments. In fact, it deliberately undermines every promising initiative while paying no heed to the potential consequences of the perpetuation of the cycle of violence, rising tension and instability throughout the region. Against this backdrop, the question of deploying an international monitoring force to ensure scrupulous compliance with ceasefire arrangements is more pressing than ever. While Kuwait renews its commitment to fully supporting the struggle of the Palestinian people to attain all their full legitimate political rights, including the establishment of their independent State on their national territory, with Jerusalem as its capital, we demand that the Israeli Government commit itself to implementing the resolution adopted last Friday by the General Assembly at its tenth emergency special session and reverse its decision to remove the President of the Palestinian Authority. In the same context, we demand that the Israeli Government fulfil its obligations and pledges set out in relevant United Nations resolutions, primarily Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973); the land for peace formula; the bilateral accords signed with the Palestinian Authority in the context of the peace 32 process; and the road map in all its provisions and requirements. In addition, Israel must abandon forthwith its policies of isolating local communities and denying them food supplies, incursions, destruction of physical infrastructures, demolition of homes and arbitrary round-ups and arrests. Israel must also stop its construction of the separation wall and of settlements. It should also release all Palestinian detainees. Recent developments on the ground prove that these policies and practices will not fulfil Israel’s goals. Rather, they will fuel the sentiments of hostility towards Israel. They will also reinforce the sense of despair and undermine the Palestinians’ prospects for living in freedom and dignity, thus forcing them to pursue the course of national struggle and resistance of occupation. Furthermore, Israel must ultimately withdraw from all the Arab territories it occupied in 1967 as a prerequisite for building the just, permanent and comprehensive peace for which we all yearn. At the regional level, and in line with Kuwait’s compliance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, especially Article 2, which stresses the principle of peaceful settlement of disputes, we call on the Islamic Republic of Iran and the United Arab Emirates to maintain their mutual visits and to deepen bilateral talks with a view to resolving their dispute over the three islands. It is our hope that the resolution of the current dispute will strengthen relations between the two countries and the consolidation of security and stability in the region. In this regard, Kuwait, in its forthcoming chairmanship of the Gulf Cooperation Council, will spare no effort to strengthen all aspects of political, security and economic cooperation among the States of the region. Furthermore, Kuwait, in cooperation and coordination with the United Nations and the regional players, will explore the activation and development of regional security arrangements with interested countries of the region. Today’s world is different in many ways from the world of several years ago. The trade and economic boundaries of States are rapidly disappearing. Cultural interaction and relations among various societies is expanding as a result of the immense achievements in information and communications technologies. However, such technologies have had some negative implications that cannot be brushed aside. Thus, we are now seeing an increasing marginalization of the majority of the developing countries, whose economies now suffer from a growing set of problems that jeopardize their prospects for meaningful development. In an attempt to face up to these challenges, which hamper world economic growth, a series of United Nations meetings were convened to address the impediments to global economic growth. Thus, the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in South Africa, and the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Mexico, developed a framework of action for ensuring equity and fair interdependence and cooperation between the North and the South. Also, specific guidelines and obligations were set for all stakeholders to achieve a more equitable balance in economic relations. At this juncture, we would therefore call on the developed nations to meet their partnership obligations. These include, inter alia, adequate flows of financial and technical aid to the developing countries; the alleviation of the debt burden and cancellation of the debts of the least developed countries; the removal of customs restrictions on flows of goods from the developing countries into world markets; and an exchange of information and expertise that would help developing countries to build and modernize their national institutions. To this end, Kuwait, for its part, reaffirms its commitment to continue to provide development and financial assistance to developing countries. Our channels will either include the United Nations programmes, funds, agencies and other multilateral organizations or the Kuwait Fund for Economic Development, which has a sterling track record of aiding and financing a wide range of development projects and programmes in more than 100 developing countries across the globe. As we are still in the early years of a new century, it is our hope that all of us will draw the right lessons from our collective experiences of the past. Only through common action can humankind face the challenges of the present in order to fashion a better future that offers future generations the hope of living in freedom and dignity. Let us join hands to fulfil our common vision of a life in which law and order prevail — a life governed by the values and principles of freedom, justice and equality for all; a life that upholds the concept of partnership and cooperation as the shortest path to security, stability and peace in the world. ﻿Please allow me warmly to congratulate Mr. Hunte, on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I would also like to thank Mr. Jan Kavan for his valuable contribution as President of the General Assembly at its last session. I also take this opportunity to express my heartfelt condolences on the recent tragic deaths in Baghdad of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, and other United Nations staff members. The twenty-first century is about to complete its third year, with hope and distress coexisting side by 28 side. Peace and development remain the overriding themes of the times and the shared aspirations of people of all races, colours and nationalities. The concept of democracy and equality has planted deep roots in the hearts of the people. The shared confrontation of global challenges through stronger coordination and cooperation has become the consensus of the international community. Countries are increasingly closer in their economic relations. Advanced means of communications have made it possible to share information in real time. With their interests closely connected and intertwined, countries are finding themselves more and more like passengers in the same boat. Regional cooperation has grown substantially in both depth and scope, with cooperation mechanisms taking shape at various levels. Regional economic integration is forging ahead in many parts of the world. There are, however, many worrisome aspects of the international situation. Local wars and conflicts continue to emerge sporadically. Although the Iraq war is over, peace remains elusive, with no end of suffering in sight for the Iraqi people. With the situation between Israel and Palestine still experiencing ups and downs, the Middle East peace process remains a long, uphill journey. In Africa, wars are still raging in some countries. Non-traditional security concerns such as terrorism, drug-trafficking, arms proliferation, the spread of diseases and environmental degradation have become more pronounced. Given modern conditions, they can easily spread within regions or even across the world, making the security situation of human communities even more complicated. Humankind still confronts severe challenges in its development. In the past 30 years, the number of least developed countries has doubled, reaching 50, which accounts for one quarter of the United Nations membership. The ever-widening gap between the North and South and the aggravated disparity between the rich and the poor have become a major factor breeding new conflicts and wars and undermining regional stability. At a moment like this, people are inevitably pondering the same question: in the interest of world peace and common development, what kind of new world order should we establish in the twenty-first century? China is of the view that the future well-being of humankind hinges on closer international cooperation and a multipolar world. We should promote democracy in international relations. Multipolarization does not mean back-pedalling into the age of spheres of influence or a replay of the now long-gone rivalry of major Powers. It simply means bringing about a new regime of international relations under which all countries — big or small, rich or poor, strong or weak — are treated as equals, and under which no country has the right to impose its will on others. We should cultivate a new security concept based on the principles of mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality and cooperation. Security should be maintained through cooperation, and disputes should be resolved peacefully through dialogue. The frequent use of force and the threat of its use should be avoided. The practice of building one’s own security at the expense of others should be rejected. We should support diversity in the process of development. Our world is a place of many colours and styles. A single musical note cannot make a melody, nor does a phonetic alphabet make a language. Human wisdom has produced so many civilizations, allowing us to follow different paths of development and a variety of values. It is through the exchanges, emulations and integrations of diverse cultures that human reason and wisdom shine brilliantly. We should dedicate ourselves to the empowerment of developing countries in their large numbers. The developing countries, which make up three quarters of the world’s population, should become a key pillar of a multipolar world. Without their extensive participation on an equal footing, there will be no democracy in international relations or a fair and rational world order. Without their economic revitalization, there can be no common development of all humankind to speak of. We should step up multilateral cooperation. Multilateral cooperation in various forms should become the principal vehicle in the handling of international affairs. Countries should join hands in taking on global challenges through globalized cooperation. In a multipolar world, countries should respect and consult with one another politically, strive for common development by helping one another economically, prosper together by drawing on one 29 another’s cultural strengths and jointly maintain security through mutual trust, thus working hand in hand to realize the peace and prosperity of humankind. More than half a century ago, our forefathers gathered to give birth to the United Nations. The past 58 years have seen the Organization’s notable accomplishments in preserving peace in regions and around the world and in promoting human development and progress. The spirit of the United Nations Charter — characterized by such words as “to live together in peace with one another as good neighbours” and “to promote social progress and better standards of life in large freedom” — has been widely accepted in the international community. The United Nations has become the most universal, most representative and most authoritative international organization in the world today. This is what history affirms and what reality mandates. China maintains that in the current situation the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter should be adhered to and earnestly abided by with a view to realizing democracy, the rule of law in international relations and the mutually advantageous coexistence of the countries of the world. In handling affairs affecting regional or international peace, all Member States are obliged to maintain the leading role and authority of the United Nations and its Security Council. China is in favour of an important role for the United Nations in Iraq’s post- war arrangements and reconstruction and supports the restoration of sovereignty to the Iraqi people at an early date. China also supports the United Nations carrying out the necessary reforms to enhance its role and effectiveness in the light of changing circumstances. The United Nations is a microcosm of our world. The world’s hope rests on a strong United Nations. In order to build a better future for humankind, it is incumbent upon us first to turn the United Nations into a forum for cooperation instead of an arena of recrimination. No country is entirely populated by saints and therefore no country should have the right to throw the stones of prejudice. To that end, we should forsake all the old baggage of arrogance, estrangement and narrow- mindedness and let harmony, understanding and tolerance ring out loudly as the undiminished themes of this great Hall. The ocean is made great by all the rivers it takes in. Let that be the motto of all Member States. Development is the foundation for world peace and human progress. We stand for stronger international cooperation and the achievement of common development. The current state of affairs — in which the gap between the North and the South has been widening without pause, with some countries of the South languishing in dire poverty — must be changed without further delay. The key lies in establishing a fair and equitable new world economic order in response to the requirements of economic globalization. An open and fair multilateral trading regime should be established and improved. The principles of mutual understanding and mutual accommodation should be followed to bring about due progress in multilateral trade talks. Close attention should be given to reforming and improving the international financial system, setting up a financial early-warning mechanism and enhancing the capacity of countries to prevent and deal with financial crises. Stronger South-South cooperation and North- South exchanges should be promoted. The developing countries should step up their cooperation and coordination and gradually change their disadvantageous position in the economic globalization process. This coming December, the second ministerial conference of the China-Africa Cooperation Forum will be held in Addis Ababa, where the two sides will work together to deepen their equality-based and mutually beneficial cooperation and open up a new horizon in South-South cooperation. The developed countries should also shoulder their duties and responsibilities by giving greater support to the developing countries in the areas of market access, funding, technology transfer, debt relief and trade terms. All human communities make an organic whole when it comes to development. When hundreds of millions of fellow human beings are suffering from cold and hunger, the rich countries should not nor cannot enjoy their riches by themselves for long. The striking contrast in wealth is eroding the very dignity that all human beings share. Upon the monstrous gap 30 between the North and South cannot stand the great edifice of future prosperity. While addressing the development issue, it is necessary to highlight the need for a harmonious development of the economy and society. At present, humankind’s further development is being increasingly hampered by excessive population growth, environmental degradation, energy depletion, the decline and demise of indigenous cultures, and other constraints. Sustainable development can be truly realized only when there is harmony, mutual complementarity and mutual promotion between the economy and society, and between their development and nature. In the first half of the year, SARS struck a number of regions and countries, which testifies yet again to the crucial importance of public health in the context of development. While countries should strengthen their public health systems, the world in general should enhance its capacity to deal with major diseases and disasters through an improved globalized contingency response mechanism. The Chinese Government supports the proposal made by the World Health Organization (WHO) and certain countries at the fifty-sixth World Health Assembly for the establishment of a global fund against SARS and is ready to contribute to it. We call on all countries to support the United Nations in its relevant activities, including incorporating public health into United Nations development programmes and other action plans and promoting regional and international cooperation in this regard. Last fall, the Communist Party of China convened its 16th National Congress, which called for the building, during the first two decades of the twenty- first century, of a society that is well off in all respects. This past spring, a new Chinese Central Government was elected at the 10th National People’s Congress — thus a smooth leadership transition was realized. In the first half of the year, the people of China put up a heroic fight against SARS and won a resounding victory. Many friendly countries and personalities in the world, together with the World Health Organization and other United Nations agencies, have rendered us valuable support and assistance, for which I wish to express our heartfelt gratitude. China has kept its economic growth in high gear. The first two quarters saw the nation’s gross domestic product grow by 8.2 per cent over the corresponding period of last year, and foreign trade grow by 39 per cent. China’s economic efficiency has improved markedly, and its reforms on all fronts are progressing in an orderly way. Needless to say, China is a developing country. It still has a long way to go before all its citizens can live a comfortable, even affluent life. Development, therefore, remains China’s top priority. China’s development requires a peaceful international and surrounding environment. We will continue to pursue an independent foreign policy of peace and will seek to play a constructive role in regional and international affairs. China will continue to push for friendship and good-neighbourliness in the interest of peace and tranquillity in the region. Based on our support for a nuclear-free Korean peninsula on which peace and stability should be maintained, we initiated and sponsored the three-party Beijing talks and the first round of six-party talks. China remains committed to resolving the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula peacefully through dialogue and the building of a lasting peace there. To develop, China needs the world, and a prosperous world also needs China. The market and cooperation potential unleashed by a rapidly developing China could bring fresh and immeasurable opportunities to the region and to the world at large. We desire peace, stability and development. We aspire to equality, mutual benefit and a win-win result for all. Conforming to the tide of history, China has opted for the path of peaceful development, linking its rejuvenation with that of the region, with the interests of the majority of countries, and with the lofty cause of peace and development for humanity. We hereby pledge our continued and ever-greater contribution to world prosperity and progress. ﻿Allow me, at the outset, to join previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We would also like to commend your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for the manner in which he guided the proceedings of the Assembly during the previous session. I would likewise like to commend the Secretary-General for his relentless efforts to turn the United Nations into an effective instrument for international cooperation in the search for, and the preservation of, peace and security. The United Nations family has recently lost some of its best servants. We mourn, in particular, the tragic death of Sergio Vieira de Mello, a dedicated servant of our Organization. We would like to reiterate our deepest condolences to the United Nations, the Government of Brazil and Sergio’s family. We also mourn the passing away of Anna Lindh, Sweden’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was an outstanding diplomat and defender of the United Nations. Her departure is a major loss for humankind, as she fought for a world order in which every nation could live in peace, harmony and prosperity. We wish to reiterate our heartfelt condolences to the people and Government of Sweden, as well as to her bereaved family. 2 I have come to this session of the General Assembly as a messenger of the peoples of Mozambique, and of Africa as a whole — a messenger of peoples who are engaged in consolidating political, economic and social reforms. Today more than ever before, the peoples of Africa believe in the strength of their will, cohesion and unity. They believe in realizing the potential of their human and natural resources and capacities. They believe in learning from past experiences, good and bad, to restore peace and stability and to generate wealth and prosperity throughout the continent. The peoples of Africa are emulating the experiences of countries like my own, Mozambique, where after years of armed conflict a new era of peace and gradual, but steady, development has been taking place during the past 11 years. During those 11 years, we have made continuous progress in consolidating peace and democracy. We are now engaged in the process of preparing for our second municipal elections, which will be held on 19 November 2003. In 2004 Mozambique will hold its third general and multiparty elections to elect the President as well as members of Parliament. The peace and socio-economic stability that prevail in our country have created an enabling environment for domestic and foreign investment, which are pivotal for the generation of employment and for the reduction of poverty. The gross domestic product of Mozambique’s economy grew at an encouraging rate of 7.7 per cent last year, which has resulted in increased social-service allocations in the national budget. That is all the more important given the fact that Mozambique, like many other countries in southern Africa, is still facing a humanitarian crisis that is the result of continuing unfavourable weather patterns that have stricken the entire region for several years. We urge the international community to respond favourably to the recently launched appeal for humanitarian assistance for southern Africa. As part of its efforts to fight poverty, the Government is implementing a plan of action for the eradication of absolute poverty, which aims to maintain the current average economic growth rate of 8 per cent and to reduce absolute poverty to below 50 per cent by 2010. With the objective of creating a national vision for development in the next 25 years, the Government of Mozambique has launched its Agenda 2025, a national strategy for the future of the country based on a constructive dialogue with all political parties and stakeholders. Last July, Mozambique had the honour of hosting the Second Assembly of the Heads of State and Government of the African Union. During that Assembly, we took important decisions that laid down the foundations of the African Union and that will contribute to the effective implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). As expressed in the Maputo Declaration, the commitment and political will of African countries to take effective and concrete measures towards the implementation of NEPAD reflects the recognition of the fact that the primary responsibility for the implementation of that initiative rests with the peoples and Governments of Africa. In the course of the past two years, in order to give coherence to NEPAD matters within African Governments, we have emphasized the creation of an institutional framework to oversee the implementation of NEPAD at the regional level so as to integrate NEPAD priorities into our national development programmes and create institutions to manage those priorities. In that connection, we must also highlight the fact that NEPAD includes an African Peer Review Mechanism, whose objective is to foster the adoption of policies, standards and practices conducive to political stability, high economic growth, sustainable development and accelerated regional and continental integration. We have already assembled a “panel of wise persons” to lend its assistance to the review process that will soon be under way. International support for the implementation of NEPAD is essential. NEPAD should be the framework within which the international community, including the United Nations system, concentrates its efforts on Africa’s development. In that connection, Africa’s development partners are urged to continue to lend their assistance, with a view to translating into reality their pledges of support to NEPAD. That is the main agenda of the African Union, which seeks to build a strong foundation for democracy, good governance, peace, stability and sustainable development, as well as to create better living conditions for all of Africa’s peoples. We recognize that that represents a colossal challenge for present and future generations of African leaders, as it was when we created the Organization of African 3 Unity (OAU) 40 years ago and committed ourselves to liberating Africa as our main goal. In Maputo we have also dealt with the issues of peace and security, for they continue to be the major challenge in Africa. It is for that reason that we have reiterated the importance of the entry into force of the Peace and Security Council, which will be an important body of the African Union that will deal with issues related to conflict prevention, management and resolution. Step by step, and with the continued support of the international community, Africa is steadily discharging its responsibilities for the maintenance of peace and stability in the continent. In keeping with the OAU Algiers Summit decision of 1999 on unconstitutional change of Government, the coordinated action of the African Union, the Community of the Portuguese-Speaking Countries, the Economic Community of Central African States, Nigeria, South Africa and other key players, enabled President Fradique de Menezes of Sao Tome and Principe to return to power, foiling an attempted unconstitutional change of Government. The recent positive developments in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including the formation of the Transitional Government and the Parliament, the appointment of army command structures and the deployment of the forces of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) in Bunia, have lent new momentum to the peace process in that country. We must not allow that process to be derailed. All of us, including neighbouring countries, have an obligation to support the Congolese people and its Government in their long struggle for peace and stability. Following the departure of President Taylor from Liberia, on 18 August 2003, we witnessed the signing at Accra, Ghana, of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. That Agreement covers a wide range of issues, including the cessation of hostilities. More importantly, it provides for the establishment of a transitional Government that will assume its responsibilities on 14 October 2003 until the holding of credible general elections in October 2005. Allow me pay well-deserved tribute to President Kufuor of Ghana and President Obasanjo of Nigeria, and indeed to all the member States of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), for their critical role in that process. Regional leadership and international support for the peace process in Liberia will be meaningless if Liberians themselves fail to meet their obligations regarding peace and stability in their country. We would also like to commend the Security Council for its action on Liberia in support of ECOWAS efforts. We welcome the adoption of resolution 1509 (2003), which established the United Nations Mission in Liberia. With respect to Burundi, we Africans have discharged our responsibilities by establishing an African mission in Burundi. In that context, I am happy to inform the General Assembly that, prior to my departure from Maputo, I bid farewell to the Mozambican contingent of peacekeepers to be deployed to Burundi. They are joining South African and Ethiopian forces in a clear demonstration of our commitment to peace and stability in Burundi and in the subregion. In that regard, I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the British Government for the assistance it has extended to us. We appeal to the Security Council to adopt a resolution formally endorsing that mission, and to take the necessary measures to provide political, financial and logistical support to it. Failure to act decisively will lead to a deterioration of the situation, with serious implications for the stability of Burundi and the subregion. The African Union and ECOWAS took prompt measures after the recent coup d’état in Guinea-Bissau to help the people of that country to return to constitutional legality. We are pleased to inform the Assembly that they have already selected by consensus a President and Prime Minister, who are going to lead a transitional Government. They have also developed other bodies to prepare the country for elections, which are to be held soon. We appeal to the international community to render its valuable assistance to Guinea- Bissau so that it will be able to overcome its dramatic social and economic situation as soon as possible. In the Horn of Africa, we must continue to encourage Ethiopia and Eritrea to work together, with the support of the United Nations, to strengthen peace, stability and good neighbourliness and to overcome the difficulties that continue to exist. The ongoing peace 4 processes in Sudan and Somalia raise our hopes that lasting peace will soon be achieved in the region. We welcome the lifting of sanctions against Libya and the settlement reached between all parties concerned, which will enable us to bring that issue to a close. The stabilization of the situation in Angola, Comoros and Sierra Leone are clear signs that, despite the difficulties, Africa is making strides towards the attainment of lasting peace, stability and socio- economic development. The peoples of Africa are fully engaged in building a continent of hope. The African Union, along with the regional economic communities, is committed to addressing the challenges faced by the continent. Africa is endowed with human and natural resources that can contribute decisively to African development. What we need is an opportunity to integrate ourselves into the world economy; an opportunity to benefit from globalization and increased interdependence; an opportunity to benefit from liberalized trade, finance and investment, instead of suffering from marginalization and exclusion; and an opportunity for access to science and technology, in particular information technology. That will be possible if, among other things, the international community continues to seek viable and effective ways and means to address the debt burden, the low levels of official development assistance and foreign direct investment and the issue of market access for African products in developed countries. With regard to the latter, we are disappointed that the Cancún conference failed to produce positive results. The recent tragic events that have claimed so many innocent lives are a painful reminder of the fact that international terrorism continues to represent a serious threat to peace and security in the world. Those events have also further demonstrated that no country is immune from the scourge of terror and that we will have to take concerted action to effectively address that issue. The United Nations remains the most appropriate forum to find the best ways and means to combat terrorism. In recent times, some sceptical people have wondered whether the United Nations has lost its credibility and relevance. The answer is clear: the role of the United Nations as the main instrument for the maintenance of international peace and security has today been vindicated more than ever before. As the Secretary-General has correctly pointed out, it is through the United Nations that we can all find the much-sought legitimacy of action in tackling issues of common concern, including threats to peace and security, and in addressing the challenges of sustainable development and HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and other infectious diseases. The Millennium Development Goals remain the most significant targets agreed by the international community, as they cover the major areas of concern to the peoples of the world. Since the adoption of the Millennium Declaration, experience has shown that attaining its goals requires greater international solidarity and cooperation. By virtue of its universality, the United Nations has shown that it has the political and moral authority to tackle not only the issues I have outlined, but also all other issues of concern to mankind. The Organization must therefore be strengthened, safeguarded and adequately funded. It is for those reasons that we must continue to support the Secretary-General and the United Nations as they shoulder their responsibilities in laying the foundations for a just and lasting peace and for socio-economic development worldwide. We in Africa reiterate our firm commitment to make our contribution to the United Nations. ﻿This session of the General Assembly is being held at a time when the world is confronted with the most serious challenges of its history in all areas. The Assembly has chosen Mr. Julian Hunte to preside over our work and for my delegation it is a sign of recognition of his qualities and competence. I would therefore like to join my voice to those of other distinguished heads of delegations preceding me in conveying to him my sincere congratulations as well as my hopes for his complete success, and we pledge to him the support of my country to assist him in accomplishing his task. We also wish to pay a tribute to his predecessor, whose success was tremendous in conducting the work of the fifty-seventh session, which has just ended. We ask him to accept our congratulations and our gratitude and we hope he will continue to impart to us the benefits of his experience. We would also like to respectfully convey our thanks to the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, for the wisdom that he has shown and for his tireless efforts which he continues to deploy, sometimes in extremely difficult situations, so that the Organization can, as much as possible, reach the objectives which have been assigned to it under the terms of its Charter. During this fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, we are going to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the genocide which, in less than 100 days, from April to July 1994, in plain sight of the entire world, claimed the lives of more than a million Rwandans and caused the internal displacement or the exile of thousands of others. We hope that this will be 17 an occasion for the General Assembly to collectively recommit our efforts, as Governments and peoples across the globe, so that these types of horrors never again occur. Toward this end, we suggest that 7 April 2004 be declared, by this distinguished Assembly, as a day to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the Rwandan genocide. While the advent of this sad anniversary obliges us to recall this genocide as something we must remember and as a sign of respect and of international solidarity, it is not the only reason we have taken the floor here. On the contrary, we wish to share an experience which is very hopeful, namely the rebirth of the Rwandan nation which, in our opinion, has been a test of stamina and of the determination of an entire people. In fact, in the last five months Rwanda, which in 1994 looked very much like a failed State, courageously undertook its reconstruction and now has experienced some promising events, the most promising of its post- colonial history. Since its accession to independence in 1962, the first pluralist presidential elections have just been held and they took place in an atmosphere of unprecedented peace and calm. The stunning victory of His Excellency Paul Kagame as President of the Republic in the vote that was held on 25 August, exactly one month ago, is part of the democratic process set in motion since 1999 by local elections, followed in 2001 by municipal elections and in May 2003 by the constitutional referendum. This marks, de jure, the end of the transitional period, begun in the aftermath of the Rwandan tragedy in 1994. These free and transparent elections, as well as the legislative elections which are ongoing even now as we speak, are not only an important step in the process of democratization, but also and especially are restoring Rwandans to their right and sense of pride at being able to make and write their own history, a history, which has turned its back forever on genocide and which is instituting, as critical values and objectives, unity, peace, justice, democracy and development. These consultations, we are reminded, are not the result of chance, and would not have taken place nor known as much success as the international community has seen, had it not been for the firm will of the Rwandan leadership and the Rwandan people to commit themselves with determination to peace and security of individuals and property throughout the entire Rwandan territory; unity and reconciliation of the Rwandan people; and good governance which, in the end, is our policy engine and which has allowed us to dismantle the structure of a State that was too centralized and totalitarian and which stifled positive initiatives, as well as the involvement of the people in decisions concerning their own development. We have also set up principles of accountability and transparency at all levels of public life by creating strong autonomous institutions to combat corruption, nepotism and abuses of power. The success of these initiatives can be measured today by the fact that a recent study of the World Bank Institute has cited Rwanda among the developing countries that are the best managed, the best governed and not corrupt. Such public transparency would not have been possible without our having eradicated the culture of impunity which had taken root in our country. We had to take steps to completely overhaul the classical legal system and introduce a legal system that is participatory and traditional called Gacaca', which is inspired by Rwandan know-how and whose major objective is not only to punish crimes committed during the genocide, but also, and especially, to reconcile Rwandans. It should also be pointed out that the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide obliges the international community to prevent, stop and punish genocide. While the international community came up short in its obligations under this Convention, we did greatly appreciate the subsequent establishment of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), established to bring to justice and punish the perpetrators of this crime. Our country was particularly pleased and satisfied with the recent decision of the Security Council to appoint a full-time prosecutor for the ICTR in order to improve its performance and its effectiveness. We are of the view, however, that other reforms could still be initiated to obtain this objective which, in our view, would help restore human dignity. Regionally, the political and security situation in the Great Lakes Region in Central Africa has tangibly improved since last year. Rwanda is pleased with the ongoing peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has led to the formation of an inclusive transitional Government and the reunification of that country. 18 We are disposed to work with this new Government, as well as with the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), to achieve disarmament, demobilization and effective repatriation, as called for in the Agreements of Lusaka and Pretoria, of the ex- FAR and the Interahamwe militia, whose belligerent activities are at the heart of the two regrettable clashes between our two countries. With respect to the situation in Burundi, this requires more attention on the part of the international community. Rwanda, at this point, is calling on all the parties to consider the best interests of the Burundians and to join with the ongoing peace initiatives supported by countries in the region so that we can put an end to the unspeakable suffering of the Burundian population. This being the case, at a time when these different African peace initiatives are beginning to take form, it is time to call on the international community to accompany them and support organizing an international conference for peace, security and development in the Great Lakes region. This conference would hopefully produce a kind of Marshall Plan for the development of the region. Elsewhere in Africa and throughout the world, Rwanda condemns the fact that conflicts, often conflicts that have been going on for some years, continue to claim many human lives and deflect enormous financial and material resources that could be allocated to developmental projects. We are of the view, however, that these conflicts will not disappear on their own, unless we pay attention to them and unless we attack the root causes of these conflicts and, in particular, unless we put into place effective and appropriate mechanisms to prevent, manage and resolve these conflicts. Indeed, we must all work together, resolutely, to promote dialogue in good faith, solidarity among nations, non-exclusion, the human dimension, international law and diplomatic activities as a means worthy of the individual and of nations to resolve their differences. The point concerning United Nations reform is on the agenda of our Organization and has been for several years, although we have never been able to agree on the scope and content of the necessary reforms. That the United Nations needs to be reformed is without doubt. In fact, as the United Nations Secretary-General indicated, when the stakes change, we must adapt our responses to them. It is certain that the challenges facing the international community today are different from those they faced from the 1940s to the 1980s. Rwanda is also convinced, therefore, that the institutions, the structures and the working methods of the United Nations, which have been adopted over the years must be adjusted and fine-tuned to the realities of the day. Would it not be fair, for example, in a world which has fundamentally changed, that we question the membership and the decision-making methods in the Security Council? At a time when we are requiring all nations to have democratic governance, is it not legitimate to require the Security Council itself to be more representative and more democratic in its methods of work? Rwanda supports the proposal submitted by other Member States to increase the number of members of the Security Council to better reflect regional realities and therefore to allow a better representation of developing countries. Nevertheless, in order to do that, we must bear in mind the fact that the Security Council has been placed as a body under the General Assembly and that its enlargement can in no way compromise that order. We must therefore better reorganize the United Nations so that it can achieve the goals of ensuring peace and security among nations, developing more equitable international relations in the areas of cooperation and friendly ties and inspiring and guaranteeing the international order and international law. In doing so we must ask ourselves why the United Nations has been unable to respond collectively and effectively to such recent crises and tragedies as the 1994 Rwandan genocide and the situation in Iraq. Why has the United Nations been unable to prevent or stop various crises throughout the world or to fulfil its primary mission of ensuring peaceful co-existence among nations? Why has the United Nations been unable to be an effective and efficient catalyst for harmonious political, social and economic development in all nations? We believe that the answer to all of those questions, and many others, will determine the nature and scope of the reforms to be undertaken. In that regard, we welcome the Secretary-General's decision to establish a high- level panel to address the question of reform and to make proposals to the General Assembly. 19 As I said at the beginning of my statement, the major challenges in the world today include poverty; poor governance; economic, political and social injustice which give rise to many internal conflicts international terrorism; globalization and the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other widespread diseases. Those challenges cannot be successfully addressed without greater and more effective cooperation on the part of all countries. Nevertheless, the development goals for the new millennium, the New Partnership for Africa's Development, the current series of negotiations in the Doha round to allow greater access to world markets for products from developing countries, the recent decision by the World Trade Organization (WTO) to allow poor countries to import low-cost basic generic medicines to combat such illnesses as AIDS, and the various tools established by the United Nations to combat international terrorism all represent the beginning of collective responses to those challenges. However, those initiatives will only bear fruit if all nations abandon selfish reflexes, such as those that were at the heart of the recent failure of WTO negotiations at Cancun. Rwanda would like to take advantage of this forum to reiterate its steadfast determination to commit itself and to contribute, however modestly, to address those challenges. We are committed to working with all the nations of the world to begin that undertaking in our region and in our dear continent, Africa.  ﻿Allow me to begin by drawing the General Assembly’s attention to the fact that, despite all its deficiencies and weaknesses, it must be admitted that the United Nations has demonstrated its merits and contributions, not only for humanity in general but also, in particular, for its Member States. This world body has maintained minimum standards that every State must meet regarding the protection and promotion of the human rights of all its citizens. The United Nations has developed, and strived to implement, international laws binding upon each and every member. It has also instituted and put into practice an array of legal instruments that are very useful in preventing and settling conflicts among States, as well as in promoting a framework of cooperation among nations. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to convey the gratitude and appreciation of my country to the United Nations for the invaluable work it has done for our benefit. The contributions of the Organization to our political and economic development are well recorded in our history. Those contributions range from its mediating role during the period of our struggle to preserve our national independence, from 1945 to 16 1949, to its active participation in our efforts to employ our independence wisely in our pursuit of national development. Our national State — which may not only be the most heterogeneous but also the largest archipelagic State in the world — is built upon racial, ethnic, religious and cultural pluralities. Our people still live predominately traditional lives, dispersed along the equator throughout over 17,000 islands. The most devastating financial crisis in Indonesia’s history not only ignited conflicts between ethnic groups, but also revived separatist movements in several regions. We are doing all we can to contain and defuse those separatist movements. In the process, we have diminished our capacity to strengthen our economic recovery. Beginning in 2002, while we were contending with those difficulties, terrorism began to inflict its brutality upon our homeland. We believed for quite some time that international terrorism would spare Indonesia because we had a tradition of tolerance for human differences. However, we must now face the reality that Indonesia has become a target of terrorism, and as a result has suffered enormous losses in human lives. We have been wondering why those terrifying acts were carried out. What were the underlying reasons, motives and arguments for them? How were they related to international terrorist networks? What course of action should be adopted to effectively prevent, deter and eradicate them? We have adopted a strong set of laws to prevent and eradicate the threats posed by terrorism. Equipped with those reinforced legal instruments, we have dismantled terrorist cells in the country, and prosecutors have brought members of those cells to justice. Several of them have already been handed sentences that befit their crimes. The people of Indonesia, who are predominantly of the Islamic faith, support that national policy. Large and active Islamic organizations, such as Muhammadiya and Nahdlatul Ulama, as well as the Indonesian Ulemas Council and prominent Islamic figures, are one in condemning those terrorist acts. It should be noted that the terrorists — who are few in number, but fanatical — often claim that they are fighting in the name of Islam. They must be a mere minority, as Islam — which teaches equality, justice and the kinship shared by all humankind — cannot possibly endorse the indiscriminate killing of innocent individuals. As in other Muslim countries, adherents of mainstream Islam in Indonesia practice moderation and are strongly opposed to violence. Although they are a small splinter group in the large Indonesian community of Muslims, the perpetrators of those terrorist acts represent a branch of international terrorism. The motives and justifying arguments of their movement apparently stem from the prolonged unjust attitude exhibited by big Powers towards countries whose inhabitants profess Islam, particularly as regards resolving the Middle East conflict. We should truly be prudent and sensible in the face of such a long-outstanding issue. It is difficult to refute the impression that the policy on conflict resolution in the Middle East is not only unjust but also one-sided. Clearly, the Middle East problem is not a conflict of religions or of religious adherents, although some religious nuances may be part of the issue. We are very much aware of the background of that situation. Whatever the reasoning espoused by any one of us, we must all admit that the absence of a just attitude, exacerbated by a feeling of being sidelined and ignored, in addition to the lack of a formal means to channel aspirations, has fostered a climate for violence and made it grow. In our view, those are actually both the seeds and roots of a problem that has a tendency to grow and expand. Among other things, that problem has also even led to devastating and tragic acts of terror. At this distinguished forum, I would like to appeal to world leaders to open the doors of their hearts in dealing with that issue, which is crucial to world peace, the welfare of humankind and the destiny of the human race. I believe we will be able to carry out that noble task if we are prepared to look into the problem with clear hearts and minds. Indeed, we cannot be the “most just”; but it is necessary to have a just mind and attitude. It is depressing to observe that we have been very slow in understanding the root causes of the problem. The war in the Middle East a few months ago is just another reflection of the situation. The war has created many more problems than it was supposed to solve. I do believe that a great many lessons can be learned from the Iraq war. In order to prevent, deter or eradicate the problem of international terrorism, I should like to propose that 17 the countries whose citizens have been the main targets of terrorist groups should review their conventional anti-terrorism policies, particularly in dealing with the Arab-Israeli conflict. They should adopt a policy that ensures that all parties involved are given just and equal treatment. Indeed, many eminent Muslims in Indonesia believe that once the major Powers behave in a more just manner and make clear their impartiality in the Middle East, most of the root causes of terrorism perpetrated in the name of Islam — which cannot be justified under any circumstance — will be resolved. As the Head of State of the largest Muslim country in the world, I sincerely invite all world leaders to pay particular attention to that issue. Let us prevent the root causes of terrorism from spreading and triggering the emergence of other unsatisfactory aspirations, including in the social and economic spheres. The failure to reach consensus at the recent meeting of the World Trade Organization and the continued slow progress — not to say stalemate — in the implementation of various social and economic global agendas will only complicate and proliferate existing global problems. We are all interested in making the world a more peaceful, stable, prosperous, just and humane place. Were those not the noble objectives explicitly stipulated in the Charter of the United Nations at the inception of the Organization, in June 1945? We are all aware that the world has undergone rapid changes. Technology has transformed the world and turned it into an open and almost borderless place. Human life and its inherent value system have been developing very fast, and any institutional and procedural regimes and instruments require adjustment and improvement. Forty-three years ago, in 1960, our first President, Mr. Soekarno, spoke clearly about that issue. In his address to the General Assembly entitled “To build the world anew”, he referred to the need to reform both the international order and relations among nations of the world. We now all realize and recognize the truth of his call. We are indeed in need of fundamental reform. If, to that end, the performance of the Organization requires improvement to enable it to contribute more constructively to the attainment of a more peaceful, stable, just, prosperous and humane world, then we must have the courage to review, revitalize and empower its institutions and working methods. We must strengthen international cooperation and reinforce regional engagement. In South-East Asia, we are continuing to enhance the role of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Next month, at the ASEAN summit that Indonesia will host in Bali, we expect to take concrete steps towards forming an ASEAN security community that will support and complement our efforts at becoming an ASEAN economic community. I believe that a stable, peaceful and prosperous ASEAN will significantly contribute to the realization of the objectives of the United Nations. There are no easy tasks. But building a better region and a more democratic world is worth all our patience and hard work. After all, that is our basic responsibility. From Indonesia’s own experience in striving to become a more fully democratic country, I know how difficult that kind of work can be. We are therefore aware that building a more democratic world is even more difficult. Nevertheless, I wish to reiterate that my country remains committed to fulfilling its international obligations and that we will continue to work with other members of the United Nations to build the new world we dream of.  ﻿I would like first of all to express my sincere gratitude to Mr. Jan Kavan for his work as President of the General Assembly at its previous session. We appreciate the knowledge and skilful leadership of the current President, Mr. Julian R. Hunte of Saint Lucia, and wish him a year of constructive dialogue and cooperation. This year was one of shocking news and human tragedy. We lost a noble man and a distinguished diplomat, our friend Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and many others who happened to be on duty at the United Nations premises on that tragic day in Baghdad. More recently, we paid a final tribute to Ms. Anna Lindh, the late Swedish Foreign Minister and our good friend, who fell victim to another act of human insanity. We grieve for those lost, but we also remember their work and unfinished missions. Iraq is one such example of unfinished business. The restoration of sovereignty and the implementation of a political process leading to the establishment of a fully representative Government through democratic elections is our primary goal. State-building, however, is not an overnight process. Only through coordinated effort and close international cooperation can we expect to rebuild a free and peaceful Iraq. The United Nations, with its unique experience and legitimacy, is essential to efforts to help the Iraqi people recover their sovereignty. In Iraq, the first signs of recovery are already visible, as demonstrated by the appointment of a Governing Council and the formation of a preparatory constitutional committee. These positive developments should be supported and encouraged. Thus we look forward to the forthcoming Madrid conference, which will address many issues important to Iraq’s future. International support is indispensable, and sometimes even critical, to people coping with the legacy of a fallen dictatorship. The current setbacks in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians must not prevent the implementation of the road map. The vision of two States living side by side in peace and prosperity remains the only viable option. The real strength of our power as an international community continues to lie in our resolve to deal collectively with critical issues. The recent report of the Secretary-General posed hard questions. We need to find consensus on the conceptual and political framework for the operation of the United Nations in 15 the coming decades. Lithuania firmly supports the United Nations as it pursues the goals enshrined in the United Nations Charter. We share the view that the multilateral institutions must be updated and reinforced. It is absolutely essential that the United Nations and its principal organs be seen as relevant and effective. Lithuania is ready to contribute to the goal of building an international order based on effective multilateral institutions and on the fundamental goals of the United Nations Charter. Lasting peace is our collective responsibility. The Security Council must be able to take a leadership role in maintaining international peace and security. Thus Lithuania supports substantial reform to ensure a better and more equitable representation in both categories, permanent and non-permanent, through the inclusion of Germany and Japan, as well as certain other leading countries from other regions. Lithuania welcomes the intention of the Secretary-General to establish a high-level panel of eminent personalities to address responses to current challenges. The European Convention, which prepared the draft European Constitution, is a good example of how such fundamental policy questions could be dealt with. Regrettably, terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery continue to be on the list of our chief security concerns. The Thessaloniki European Council Declaration on the Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, and the European Union’s (EU) basic principles and action plan against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are well- defined responses. Lithuania associates itself with them and will contribute to their implementation. I should also like to recall the Hague Code of Conduct Against Ballistic Missile Proliferation, which is yet another result of multilateral efforts and is worthy of global universalization. Global stability also requires regional efforts. In this context, I would like to note with satisfaction that next year Lithuania and other Central and Eastern European countries will join the EU and NATO, thus expanding the zone of stability and democracy in Europe. Moreover, our accession will have an important positive effect on the nations at the new borders of the EU and NATO. Lithuania is determined to continue its good-neighbourly policies and to develop closer relations with its new EU neighbours. I should also like to draw attention to Baltic-Caucasus regional cooperation, which is already developing a number of successful initiatives. We are witnessing the willingness to adopt more effective measures to combat terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. Invariably, more conventional challenges can be dealt with by transparency and confidence-building activities. As a new State party to the Ottawa Convention, Lithuania is committed to contributing practically to its implementation and promotion. We feel that it is increasingly important to facilitate regional dialogue and action that contributes to the abolition of anti-personnel mines and the clearing up of old unexploded ordnance. We have already started working with interested parties in that respect. Democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are undoubtedly the most important in our system of values. In view of the process of globalization, securing this system is a great challenge. Such global afflictions as poverty, hunger, unsustainable development, disastrous massive pandemics and grave violations of human rights raise before us the vital task of standing together in order to secure the future of our children. Stable conditions for peace cannot be created without addressing poverty and eradicating social exclusion. We should, therefore, put all our efforts towards achieving the goals that we agreed to in the Millennium Declaration. Lithuania, as a future member of the European Union, is also assuming its responsibilities as an emerging donor in this regard.  ﻿On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname, I would at the outset like to take this opportunity to extend to you, Sir, a fellow brother of the Caribbean, and to the other members of the Bureau my sincere congratulations on your unanimous election to guide the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Suriname shares in the satisfaction experienced by the Caribbean region. We are convinced that, given your vast diplomatic experience and skills, you will be able to guide the affairs of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly in a most effective manner. In this regard, I can assure you that Suriname will support you in every possible way. My delegation would also like to express its gratitude to Mr. Jan Kavan, the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, for the manner in which he chaired the affairs of this organ. We wish him well in his future endeavours. Likewise, my Government would like to reiterate its support for Secretary-General Kofi Annan. His dedication to the goals and spirit of the Organization has been exemplary and has served him well in protecting the interests of humanity. My Government strongly deplores the atrocious terrorist attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. Our thoughts are with the Secretary-General and with the bereaved families of those who perished as a result of the incident. We especially mourn the demise of Sergio Vieira de Mello, a dedicated United Nations staff member who laboured for the benefit of many troubled societies. The opportunities that arise from developments in the world today are, unfortunately, not within reach of all the world’s children. This world order, which is well-developed on the one side, copes with serious development setbacks in the economic and social sectors on the other. Economic downfalls, declining health services and the persistence of an international non-supportive environment are all circumstances that affect the ability of Governments, in particular in the developing countries, to adequately implement policies that are required. There exists a wider disparity between the haves and the have-nots, not only in economic terms, but also in terms of opportunities offered by the rapid development in the digital sector. Globalization can become an avenue to global development only if it becomes all-inclusive and assumes a human face. This idea was behind the sense of urgency and understanding that participants in the global consultative process for development cooperation brought to the meetings in Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg. These meetings generated the needed political commitment and momentum, as did the Millennium Summit, at the highest political level. We must maintain this momentum and continue to 5 demonstrate the political will and energy to implement the decisions carefully drafted at these meetings. To accelerate progress towards these goals, there is a need for a set of policies that generate stronger economic growth, complemented by action to enhance the capabilities of poor people to participate in growth and to access key social services. As agreed in Doha and in Monterrey, these efforts should enjoy stronger support from the international community, in particular through increased market access for developing countries. My Government also holds the view that it is necessary for all relevant actors to continue to be involved in the process that should lead to the coordinated and integrated implementation of the outcomes of these meetings. Such an approach should put us on a path of economic and social development that reduces poverty and works for all the world’s peoples. International peace and security predominantly occupy the international agenda. The maintenance of international peace and security is a major concern of the international community, as declining security affects the protection of human rights and the very existence of all human beings. It is therefore important that global security be based on a secured and just framework that promotes the peaceful coexistence of all States. The Government of Suriname is of the considered view that the United Nations and its Charter offer the best guarantee for the maintenance of international peace and security. Abidance by the security framework laid down in the Charter is therefore of utmost importance. Declining security affects every member of the international community. It is therefore essential to increase the involvement of the general membership of the Organization in the agenda and work of the Security Council, while an increase in the membership of the Council should reflect the international political and economic realities and security needs of contemporary global society. The principle of human-centred security might offer the best possible and most effective road to travel in order to meet the security needs of today’s world. A commitment to human-centred security will generate more integrated international cooperation in many related fields, from conflict prevention to disarmament, including respect for the rule of law and for human rights. The United Nations must continue to be innovative in its search for effective ways and means to increase global security. We must continue to argue for more tolerance and understanding among peoples. Suriname is one of the most ethnically varied nations in the world, where people of different religions and racial backgrounds live and work peacefully together, and with a Government and Parliament in which Hindus, Muslims, Christians and Jews form one front to collectively work on the development of our country. The dialogue among civilizations, in particular among religions, must be encouraged. We must furthermore seek to remove those circumstances that give rise to situations that foster global insecurity. This task must be given a central place in any overall strategy to increase international peace and security. Maintaining international peace and security must increasingly become a common responsibility involving all actors, Governments and peoples alike. The restructuring of the United Nations must also result in achieving a more effective General Assembly. It is important that the General Assembly be perceived by the general public as an important international body contributing to its development and prosperity. A restructured General Assembly, as the sole universal deliberative body, must continue to spearhead the debate on development, but must also incorporate into its agenda other issues of a global nature that are of special importance to humanity. The common task ahead is to collectively work towards sustainable human development and to create a global society in which equity, equality and equal rights and opportunities exist for all human beings and extreme poverty can be eradicated. Achieving such a global society requires the involvement, determination and commitment of every Government, civil society and business sector, as well as coordinated and comprehensive actions by all these actors in the global fight against poverty and injustice. ﻿It is a great pleasure for me to address the General Assembly under the presidency of a fellow citizen of our Caribbean Community. Allow me to extend our warmest congratulations and good wishes to you, Sir, as you discharge the functions of your high office. I offer our esteemed Secretary-General our appreciation for his astute and steadfast leadership in these times of great challenge to the Organization. I would also like to pay tribute to his dedicated staff, many of whom have lost their lives in service to the United Nations. In 1953, the people of Guyana were allowed for the first time to exercise their democratic franchise under universal adult suffrage to elect the Government of their choice. Today, 50 years later, my country has learned, through the painful experience of misrule and mismanagement, the vital importance of democracy to our future as a nation. We recognize that to foster development, reduce poverty and safeguard human dignity, democracy must be allowed to grow and take root. Having laid the basic foundation for good governance through free and fair elections, we now face the task of building a more prosperous and just society. 4 To that end, my Government has embarked on a process of consultation and collaboration with all sectors of our population, including political parties, the private sector and non-governmental organizations. Through the recent reform of the Constitution, provisions have been made to enhance fiscal transparency, provide greater inclusiveness and guarantee the fundamental rights of our people. Those measures include six independent commissions on human rights, ethnic relations, women and gender equity, indigenous peoples, the rights of the child and public procurement. Moreover, in an effort to foster greater social cohesion in Guyana, we recently invited the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Racism to visit and engage the various sectors of Guyanese society so that the international community can be informed of the broad perspectives of our multicultural society and of the several measures which the Government has put in place to promote interracial harmony. In further consolidation of the democratic process, my Government has embarked upon a programme to reform the justice and security systems in our society by building capacity for the prevention, investigation and resolution of crime and for the improvement of the administration of justice. Much has been accomplished in that area, but much more remains to be done. At the same time, we have taken several development initiatives that will ultimately lead to a better life for all our people. Among them are the national development strategy and the poverty reduction strategy. We have worked hard to provide better housing, health and education facilities for our people and have managed to make signal progress in reducing poverty. And by stimulating investment, we are creating new opportunities for development. We now look to the future with the renewed hope that we will be able to overcome the many challenges to our political, economic and social progress. However, in the face of a persistent debt burden, drastically reduced development assistance and ever present protectionist barriers, and in the prevailing climate of international tension and uncertainty, many developing countries, Guyana included, are made more vulnerable, and prospects for growth are severely impaired. The failure of the recently concluded Cancun Conference does not make us sanguine about the future. The international community is now hardly likely to reach the Millennium Declaration targets that were set by this Assembly three years ago. The fate of nations, especially of those as small as ours, lies not in our hands alone. The process of globalization has made us acutely aware of the need for greater interdependence and international cooperation if we are to survive the many threats to our welfare. That interdependence is the basis for multilateralism and for the United Nations. The Charter of the Organization reflects our collective commitment to cooperate to promote peace and development. However, we have yet to fully honour that commitment. Regrettably, the world in which we live now, while placing a high premium on democracy at the national level, fails to live up to that ideal in the international councils that shape our common destiny. We are concerned at that double standard, as the aspirations of humankind for peace, security and development cannot be fulfilled without the effective participation of all States in global affairs. Especially disconcerting is the practice by some countries and international financial institutions to rely on anecdotal or partial information often from questionable sources to assess the performance of a given country. Needless to say, that can be very damaging to the particular economy concerned, as it effectively deters further aid and investment. Similarly, we are concerned by the inordinate delay in the release of development funds. The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, which was conceived as a means of assisting seriously indebted poor countries, has been unconscionably delayed. Meanwhile, the poor of our countries must face continuing hardship and suffering. They cannot be held hostage for much longer. The success of international cooperation, and indeed of the United Nations system, will be determined by how well they respond to the interests and concerns of not only the powerful but also the powerless, and not only of the rich but, most urgently, of the poor. If truth be told, their record thus far leaves much to be desired. It is therefore imperative that a credible and effective system of global governance be established as quickly as possible. That will require a more fundamental reform of the United Nations, and indeed of the entire multilateral system, than we have seen so far. After several crises in the decade of the 1990s, there was a strong call for reform of the international 5 financial architecture to provide greater macroeconomic stability. The urgency of the campaign appears to have diminished, however, even though the threat of further calamity remains. Attempts to strengthen the role of the United Nations in the development process now lag behind, denying our countries a greater say in the decision-making process pertaining to issues that affect our welfare. Nor have we been able to develop an effective security system to protect countries, particularly the weak and small, from encroachments on their sovereignty and territorial integrity. Our world continues to be subject to a wide array of threats to international peace and security. We recently witnessed a series of terrible human tragedies. Many thousands have died as a result. If there is one lesson to be learned, it is that violence accomplishes nothing. Only through dialogue and negotiation, bolstered by social justice, can lasting solutions to those problems be found. It is therefore imperative that the United Nations, the multilateral Organization to which we all belong, be strengthened to effectively promote peace and development. It is time that the United Nations Security Council, which has the primary responsibility under the Charter for international peace and security, be made more representative of the wider international community. The Council must be expanded, and the role of developing countries in that body appropriately strengthened. To that end, Guyana is prepared to support the candidacies of Brazil, India and an African country for permanent seats on the Council, as well as a suitable number of non-permanent seats for other developing countries. That expansion will no doubt enable it to better cope with the challenges that conflicts, both old and new, pose to global peace and development. Neither the many speeches that we make nor the several strategies that we occasionally devise in the hope of building global peace and development will ever accomplish much unless they are followed up by appropriate action. Sad to say, our frequent declarations of intent are not matched by deeds, a failure that can be explained only by the lack of serious purpose on the part of many Member States. We have yet to transcend selfish national interests to reach a higher plane of interdependence and multilateralism. I urge the international community to rethink its policies and to seriously consider the advantages of a more balanced and equitable system of relations. The world in which we now live calls for greater international solidarity and cooperation, not less. We must therefore ensure that those ideals are at the forefront of our deliberations at the General Assembly and that we take practical steps to ensure and strengthen our common home, the United Nations. ﻿Sergio Vieira de Mello was the pride of the United Nations. Murdered on 19 August along with his colleagues, he will remain in our memories. Let us dedicate this session to that great servant of the world and of peace. The United Nations has just emerged from one of the most serious challenges in its history. Respect for the Charter and the use of force were at the heart of the debate. The war, which was launched without the Security Council's authorization, has undermined the multilateral system. Having come to terms with that crisis, our Organization can now continue to move forward; for it is above all in this forum the melting pot of the international order that we must exercise our responsibilities to the world of today as well as to future generations. In an open world no one can live in isolation, no one can act alone in the name of all and no one can accept the anarchy of a society without rules. There is no alternative to the United Nations. But in order to meet today's challenges, this fundamental choice, expressed by the Charter, requires a far-reaching reform of our Organization. Multilateralism is crucial, because it ensures the participation of all in the management of world affairs. It is a guarantee of legitimacy and democracy, especially when decisions must be made with respect to the use of force or to the laying down of universal norms. 15 Multilateralism is effective. In Monterrey and Johannesburg, it allowed us to transcend North-South confrontation and to open the way to promising partnerships, in particular with the African continent. Multilateralism is modern, because it alone makes it possible to comprehend contemporary problems globally and in all of their complexity. First, let me touch on the settlement of conflicts that threaten international peace and security. In Iraq, the transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqis, who must have sole responsibility for their destiny, is essential for stability and reconstruction. It is up to the United Nations to lend its legitimacy to that process. It is also up to the United Nations to assist with the gradual transfer of administrative and economic responsibilities to the Iraqi institutions, according to a realistic timetable, and to help the Iraqis draft a constitution and hold general elections. Finally, it is up to the United Nations to entrust a mandate to a multinational force, commanded, naturally, by the main troop contributor that is, the United States in order to ensure the security of Iraq and of all those helping to rebuild the country. Thus the international community and the Iraqi people, united around a common project, will together put an end to the tragic decades of that great country's history. In the Middle East, ravaged by despair and hatred, only strong political will on both sides to implement the law as stipulated by the United Nations can pave the way for a just and lasting solution. The international community must restore a dynamic for peace. It must involve itself in the implementation of the road map. That should be the objective of the upcoming meeting of the Quartet, to be held at the ministerial level. France believes that the idea of a monitoring mechanism is as relevant as ever, and that the convening of an international conference is a goal to be attained as quickly as possible. Given the present tense situation, France calls on the parties not to succumb to the temptation of a test of strength and of a futile radicalization. Another major challenge is the fight against international terrorism. This fight is well under way, under the auspices of the Security Council and within the context of our treaties. The horror of 11 September cemented our common resolve. This threat strikes at the very heart of our democracies and our societies. We are using force to combat terrorism, but that is not enough. It will re-emerge again and again if we allow extremism and fanaticism to flourish if we fail to realize that it seeks justification in the world's unresolved conflicts and economic and social imbalances. Given the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, we reject the policy of fait accompli. We must stand united to guarantee the universality of treaties and the effectiveness of non-proliferation regimes. In order to ensure compliance, we must also develop our means of action. France has proposed the creation of a permanent corps of inspectors under the authority of the Security Council. Let us give fresh impetus to this policy. Let us convene a summit meeting of the Security Council to outline a true plan of action of the United Nations against proliferation. At this time, let us demand that North Korea completely, verifiably and irreversibly dismantle its military programme. Let us demand that Iran sign and implement, unconditionally and without delay, a strengthened nuclear safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency. Sustainable development poses yet another challenge, because half of humankind is living in conditions of insecurity or extreme poverty. Will we be able to globalize solidarity, as our peoples demand, in response to the inevitable globalization of the economy? We agree on the objectives. We are bound by the Millennium Goals. But, in order to attain those goals, strong political impetus remains necessary. I propose that heads of State and Government meet in New York in 2005 for a preliminary progress review. I hope that this session of the General Assembly will confirm the determination of States to overcome the failure of Cancun and to ensure the success of the Doha Development Round. In order to carry out the missions entrusted to it and to remedy its blatant shortcomings, the United Nations must evolve. Three watchwords, I believe, must guide us: democracy, authority, effectiveness. Thanks to the Secretary-General, progress has been made, and new avenues are opening up. It is now up to States to move forward without further ado and to put 16 an end to the adverse consequences of the stalemate over reforms. The United Nations is suffering from the current weakness of the General Assembly. And yet, it is here that a debate should be organized and a consensus crafted regarding solutions to major problems. A culture of confrontation must give way to a culture of action aimed at achieving our common goals, which we should determine together. The primary responsibility for the maintenance of peace and security rests with the Security Council. It is therefore essential to its legitimacy that its composition reflect the state of the world. It must be expanded to include new permanent members, because the presence of major countries is necessary. France, naturally, is thinking of Germany and of Japan, but also of some leading countries of Asia, Africa and America. We also need new elected members, to make the Council even more representative. With the decisive impetus of the five permanent members, we all need to resume discussions, mindful of the general interest. Such reform should be accompanied by a strengthening of the Council's authority. It is the Council that should set the bounds with respect to the use of force. No one can claim the right to use force unilaterally and preventively. Conversely, in the face of mounting threats, States must be assured that the Council has at its disposal the appropriate means of evaluation and of collective action, and that it has the will to act. We all are very committed to the sovereignty of States. But its scope can and should be limited in the case of serious violations of human rights and of humanitarian law. The Security Council is taking steps in that direction, and France supports this development. Meanwhile, crimes against humanity are being suppressed more effectively with the establishment of the International Criminal Court, whose jurisdiction is universal. This historic step forward must be accompanied by a strengthening of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, under a commission equipped to discharge its duties and its mission. We now realize that globalization demands stronger economic, social and environmental governance. To that end, France proposes the creation of a new political forum representative of the present economic state of today's world in all its diversity. That council would be responsible for providing the necessary impetus to international institutions, for improving their coordination and for anticipating and tackling global problems more effectively. Effectiveness also depends on increased financial resources. France calls for two changes. First, the trend towards increasing voluntary contributions at the expense of mandatory contributions must be reversed. Failing that, we will end up with a pick-and-choose United Nations, which is an outdated vision and a harmful one. Secondly, we need to make progress in mobilizing funds for development and development assistance. France wants to meet the official development assistance target of 0.7 per cent by the year 2012. But this effort, together with that of the European Union, will obviously not suffice to release the necessary funds needed to finance the Millennium Goals each year. France therefore supports the innovative concept of an international financial facility. I would also like us to give pragmatic, speedy consideration to international solidarity levies, a kind of tax on the wealth generated by globalization and given over to development. To advance on these issues, I completely approve of the Secretary-General's intention to gather around him a committee of independent wise men and women responsible for submitting proposals. Against the risk of a world without order delivered up to violence, let us work to establish the rule of international law. Against the injustice and suffering of a world of widening inequalities even though it has never been so rich let us choose solidarity. Against the chaos of a world shaken by ecological disasters, let us call for a sharing of responsibility around a United Nations environmental organization. Against the barbarity of a world in which fundamental rights are all too often held up to ridicule, where the integrity of mankind is under threat, where indigenous peoples the heirs to an irreplaceable heritage vanish amid silence and indifference, let us uphold the demands of ethics. Against the peril of a clash of civilizations, finally, let us insist on the equal dignity of cultures, respect for diversity and the value of dialogue. 17 With the Charter adopted in the name of the Peoples of the United Nations, the founders proclaimed their faith in these ideals. Let us seek to be worthy of them. Let us establish the United Nations at the heart of this planetary democracy that is so vital in our day and age. ﻿I would like at the outset, on behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I would also like to express appreciation for the efforts made by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to strengthen the functions and role of the United Nations, as required under current circumstances. The political situation today is more unstable than ever. We are confronted by new challenges as we try to make this century one of peace and prosperity for humankind. Countries have been designated, on the basis of extreme national chauvinism and hostility, as part of an axis of evil and as targets of pre-emptive nuclear attacks. Unilateral military attacks are being openly perpetrated against sovereign States under the pretext of the war against terrorism and on the basis of suspicions that they possess weapons of mass destruction. The principles of respect for sovereignty and sovereign equality are being violated, and international relations plunged into increasingly severe confrontation and antagonism, because of neo- imperialist practices that are based on the supremacy of power. 26 As we are well aware, this situation is a product of unilateralism, which is compelling countries to be subservient to the high-handedness and unreasonable demands of the super-Power. My delegation is of the view that the pressing common task before States Members of the United Nations is to reject unilateralism and build a new world in which all countries, large and small, coexist peacefully. I would like to draw the attention of the Assembly to the principled position and sincere efforts of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to ensure a fair solution to the nuclear issue between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States, which is now the focus of attention of the international community. I believe that it will be a positive contribution to the work of the current General Assembly. The nuclear issue is, in its essence, an outcome of the hostile policy pursued by the United States to isolate and stifle the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea politically, economically and militarily. It originated from this deep-rooted hostility, which denies our system and refuses to co-exist with my country. My country’s consistent position is to resolve the nuclear issue peacefully through dialogue and negotiations. Denuclearizing the Korean peninsula is the ultimate goal, the initiative of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the earnest aspiration of the entire Korean nation. Accordingly, at both tripartite and six-party talks on the nuclear issue, my country advanced proposals aimed at achieving the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. The announcement of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea — United States Joint Statement of 11 June 1993, the adoption of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea — United States Agreed Framework on 21 October 1994 and the subsequent process of their implementation have clearly testified to our peace-loving stand and its justness. The Korean people as well as the entire world welcomed the historic inter-Korean summit meeting in June 2000 and its resultant adoption of the June 15 North-South Joint Declaration. They also sincerely hoped that these developments would lead to peace and stability in the region. However, the welcome atmosphere and the expectations for peace and stability, raised for a while, suddenly disappeared, and one party has resumed acute confrontation. My country has been singled out as part of an axis of evil and the target of pre-emptive nuclear attack. That was then adopted as a policy and put into action. In particular, following the visit by the United States presidential envoy to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in October 2002, the United States reversed black and white, alleging that my country had admitted to have a secret nuclear weapons programme. It also proceeded to unilaterally halt the supply of heavy fuel oil from November 2002 in violation of the Agreed Framework, and eventually it nullified all the bilateral agreements. The United States even put pressure upon my country to give up its nuclear programme and accept nuclear inspection with the aim of disarming the country, while openly attempting to overthrow the Government by force. The peace now maintained on the Korean peninsula is entirely thanks to the powerful deterrence to war, which has been built up by our policy of independence, the songun policy. Our deterrence policy is not intended to attack anyone, but to serve as a means of self-defence to safeguard our sovereignty in all intents and purposes. In order to resolve the nuclear issue peacefully through dialogue, the hostile policy towards my country should be changed fundamentally. That is the key to the solution of the nuclear issue. At the six-party talks in Beijing in late August, my country set as a goal the abandonment by the United States of its hostile policy towards us in exchange for renunciation of our nuclear programme. To achieve that goal, we proposed to take all necessary measures through a package deal and to work towards the implementation of these measures on a step-by-step basis, following the principle of simultaneous action. Our proposal contains a detailed account of the package deal and the order of simultaneous action for a comprehensive and fair solution of the nuclear issue, including abandonment of the hostile policy towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the conclusion of the non-aggression treaty between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States, renunciation of the nuclear programme and normalization of bilateral relations. 27 Simultaneous action is a realistic way to denuclearize the Korean peninsula, and any opposition to it is tantamount to rejecting denuclearization. Other States participating in the Beijing talks also demanded a package solution and simultaneous action, urging a peaceful settlement to the nuclear issue. However, the United States alone repeated its unilateral call for my country’s abandonment of nuclear weapons programme first, with no reference to the change of its hostile policy which is the key to the solution of the nuclear issue. The United States even behaved imprudently, asserting that a non-aggression treaty is neither appropriate nor necessary and that it is not interested in such a treaty. The United States went so far as to insist that if bilateral relations are to be normalized even after my country scraps its nuclear programme, a full range of other issues such as missiles, conventional weapons and human rights should be addressed. In a word, the position of the United States is that it will discuss the steps that it will take only after we have taken every action. Under the present circumstances, in which my country and the United States are levelling guns at each other, asking the other party to put down their guns first does not make any sense. This demand can only be construed as having the ulterior motive of disarming and eliminating my country. The result of the six-party talks has convinced us once again that the United States is seeking to disarm us by means of pressure and that it is still pursuing the hostile policy of stifling our country. Since it has been proven that the United States is only interested in turning the six-party talks into a ground for completely disarming and eliminating my country by all means, instead of co-existing peacefully with us, we have been compelled not to maintain any interest in or expectations for such talks. As clearly stated, we have never made any promises with regard to the next round of the six-party talks. All developments concerning the nuclear issue prove well that pressure can never be a means for settlement of the nuclear issue and multiparty talks can be fruitful only when there is commitment to the abandonment of the hostile policy towards my country. Our demand is modest and simple. We just want both sides to drop their guns simultaneously and co-exist peacefully. Having reaffirmed the position of my Government, which I believe is the most reasonable and just in addressing the nuclear issue, I hope that the President and the United Nations Member States have a correct understanding of our position and actively cooperate for a fair solution of the nuclear issue and for peace on the Korean peninsula and in the region as a whole. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea remains steadfast in its policy and determination to realize peace and the reunification of Korea and thus contribute to peace and security in the region and in the rest of the world. Thanks to the ideas of national independence and great national unity of the great leader General Kim Jong Il, the inter-Korean summit meeting was held in Pyongyang for the first time since the national division and the North-South Joint Declaration was made public on 15 June 2000. That marked a turning point in accelerating national reunification through the concerted efforts of the entire Korean nation. Despite ups and downs in recent years, there are active efforts to realize independent and peaceful reunification of the Korean peninsula under the banner of the June 15 North-South Joint Declaration. This year alone, a series of North-South ministerial-level talks were held and a groundbreaking ceremony to re-link interrupted railways and roads took place. Reunions of separated families and relatives took place, and various economic exchanges are now under way. On 15 August, independence day, a splendid national meeting for peace and reunification was held in Pyongyang that demonstrated once again the aspirations and determination of all Korean nationals in the North, the South and overseas for reunification. The Government and people of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will achieve national reconciliation, unity and reunification and contribute to security in the region and the rest of the world by fully implementing the 15 June North-South Joint Declaration, upholding the great idea of the respected General Secretary Kim Jong Il. An important task before Member States at present is to establish a just and equitable international order and relations, in keeping with the aspirations and desire of all humankind. 28 To that end, it is important, among others things, to ensure that the principle of respect for sovereignty and equality is fully observed in international relations. Unilateralism and high-handedness should be totally rejected and opposed, as they contravene the Charter and principles of international law. In order to establish just international relations, the functions and the role of the United Nations must be enhanced and democratized. Democratizing the United Nations means decisively enhancing the authority of the General Assembly and reforming the Security Council. The General Assembly should be empowered to review resolutions of the Security Council on such issues as sanctions and the use of force directly affecting international peace and security and to submit its relevant recommendations. Regarding Security Council reform, we believe that priority should be given to ensuring full representation of the non-aligned and other developing countries that constitute an overwhelming majority of the United Nations membership. Our people graciously celebrated the fifty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea on 9 September, thus demonstrating the dignity and the might of the Kim Il Sung nation, firmly united single-heartedly around the great leader General Secretary Kim Jong Il. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue, on the basis of independence, peace and friendship — the fundamental ideals of its foreign policy — to contribute actively to international efforts for a just, equitable and new world order by further intensifying cooperation with all Member States. ﻿My Government is pleased that the General Assembly’s presidency at its fifty-eighth regular session is in the capable hands of my distinguished colleague, the Foreign Minister of Saint Lucia, Senator Julian Hunte, whose election bears witness to the importance that this Organization holds, not just for the Government of Saint Lucia, but also for the Governments and people of the Caribbean Community. I trust that as he tackles the critical United Nations agenda over the coming year he will incorporate into his work the lessons of our successes as a Caribbean Community. As with his predecessor, whose steady leadership was tested during a year of unprecedented challenges, he, too, can count on my Government’s continued support. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General, other staff of the United Nations and the citizens of Iraq who lost their lives or sustained injuries in the tragedy of Baghdad last August. We 15 share the sorrow of the Secretary-General and his staff, and extend our profound condolences to the bereaved families. I intend to focus our attention on the critical importance of strategic partnership. Lest my statement be misconstrued, I hasten to assure the Assembly from the outset that my Government is neither oblivious nor indifferent to the multitude of concerns and problems that attend and threaten our quest for international peace and security. I will be pleased to share my Government’s perspective on them later. But allow me first to share with the Assembly our national philosophy and policy as they relate to improving the human condition. “How does one do that?” you ask. Improving the human condition is achieved by working towards human security. Notwithstanding the recriminations and blame, at the core of the failed World Trade Organization round in Mexico earlier this month was the issue of human security. Clearly, countries want guarantees as Governments struggle to meet the needs of their citizens. For my Government, human security means that each citizen has the right to liberty, education, employment, an improved standard of living and economic development. We believe that human security is a comprehensive and holistic concept that encompasses all aspects of the human condition. Obviously, there is much that we in the Caribbean can and must still learn from the rest of the world. But, equally, there are many valuable lessons that the rest of the world can draw from our experiences and successes in the Caribbean. In many areas, the Caribbean is a testament to the practicality and efficacy of functional cooperation, and of how, despite the many issues that divide us, we continue to work together on matters common to us. Be it at the subregional level of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) or within the broader Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the progress we have made in forging consensus and in building common institutions to address our shared problems allows us to be able to share best practices with the United Nations and demonstrate how, by working together through cooperative partnerships, each of us can achieve more. For nearly four decades, for example, the University of the West Indies has cultivated many distinguished academics and other notables. Today, it stands as a beacon of hope for our young people in their quest for quality higher education. To its credit, the University continues to work with several internationally recognized institutions and agencies in the areas of peace and security, health care and scientific research, to name but a few. The Caribbean Examinations Council has responded adequately and with requisite standards of excellence to the growing education needs of the English-speaking Caribbean. When our students complete their education, they stand shoulder to shoulder with their counterparts around the world. It is not my intention to boast, but for us it is a matter of national and regional pride. Further, as the Assembly’s President is aware, many of our countries have adopted policies that allow nationals of other member States to travel to and work in their countries without the hassle of visa requirements and work permits. Although we are divided by the sea, the bridges of commitment and recognition of our common challenges and the benefits of shared approaches are bringing us ever closer together. The Caribbean Development Bank and the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank are models of how financial responsibility and cooperation with and among member Governments in executing fiscal and monetary policies can facilitate stability, underpin accountability and engender progress. For decades, the Eastern Caribbean dollar, the currency of the countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, has remained the bedrock of monetary stability. We are also especially proud of the success of the OECS Court of Appeal, which has worked effectively and dutifully in dispensing justice throughout the territories over which it exercises jurisdiction. Further, the prudent and positive steps toward a Caribbean Single Market and Economy (CSME), provide evidence of the determination of Caribbean Governments to cooperate in almost all endeavours to advance the human security of our citizens. These are but a few examples of functional cooperation. In every case, member countries are better off because they work together rather than unilaterally. We continue to incorporate in our national policies many of the agreed principles of sustainable development. Additionally, our regional campaign to fight the spread of HIV/AIDS and treat its victims has witnessed encouraging results under the Pan-Caribbean Partnership against HIV/AIDS. My Government wishes to commend the World Bank and the William J. Clinton Presidential Foundation for their pledges of support for 16 our work in this regard. We hope that our cooperation efforts will be a model for future partnerships in our region and beyond. I promised earlier that I would share my Government’s perspective on some of the decisive issues that confront us internationally. I preface my remarks with a reminder that just over a decade earlier we stood on the threshold of a new era of opportunity. We celebrated the collapse of major ideological conflicts, which previously held us captive, even, I dare say, on the brink of nuclear Armageddon. As one leader remarked, nations and peoples quietly harboured dreams that the last decade of the twentieth century and the advent of the twenty-first century would herald new opportunities to address and redress asymmetrical issues that had frustrated our collective aspirations and individual potential. None of us, I am sure, would likely admit that we may have squandered such prospects. However, a little more than a decade later, ideological rifts seem to have been replaced by political chasms and new dangers. Consequently, we must re-evaluate our concept of security. The Organization of American States, in its meeting of foreign ministers last year in Barbados, took the bold and timely step of redefining security within its hemisphere. Security, the foreign ministers declared, is diverse in scope and multidimensional in nature, requiring multifaceted approaches to address political, economic, social and environmental issues. This concept clearly recognizes that we cannot separate national, regional and international security issues from political, economic and social stability and their security implications. We in the Caribbean recognize that, whereas globalization is a viable instrument of growth and prosperity for some, it has become the vehicle of ruin and despair for many of the already poor people around the world. While countries that prosper praise globalization and free trade, countries that suffer see themselves as no more than the guinea pigs, the passive objects of globalization, with very little hope of advancing human security for their poor citizens. How do we encourage our citizens to have faith in a system that punishes their legitimate efforts? How can we tell the poor farmers in the developing world, struggling to eke out an existence, to hold out hope when farmers in rich countries are subsidized and rewarded for overproduction? How do we ask our citizens in small vulnerable economies to sacrifice and adopt free trade wholesale, while larger, more developed economies devise new ways to deny them crucial market access. Unless we address such inequities, there will always be resentment and mistrust. We must therefore work together to level these bumps on the road to development. Also, we must rob the uncivil forces of the arguments they use to feed and exploit the anger and despair of the poor and dispossessed. I turn now to the United Nations. In our view, the United Nations remains central to international peace and human security. The myriad challenges facing us today require collective action and partnership. I hasten to add that, although the United Nations still lacks important elements of transparency and democracy in the operations of the Security Council, it nevertheless represents the most practical framework our nations have to address regional and international concerns in a holistic manner. I trust that, when the dust of discontent settles, we will appreciate that no country can act alone in pursuit of international peace, development and human security. My Government calls on the United Nations membership to embrace a bold vision and commitment to fighting the pull of isolation and the lure of economic and financial engineering. Our reality today encompasses the struggles to find positive and sustainable methods for advancing our citizens’ development against uncivil forces or rogue ideologies working relentlessly to undermine them. My Government calls on the United Nations and Member Governments to further subscribe to and promote partnership by fulfilling the Millennium Development Goals. The Millennium Goals are essential steps to improving the human condition. They are also a reliable basis for addressing many of the inequities of globalization. We urge Member States to work to meet these goals. We can relent only when the other half of the world’s population ceases to live in abject poverty, when larger sectors of the world’s population can find work, and when all parents are able to send their children to school. Despite its exclusion from this international fraternity of nations, the Republic of China on Taiwan remains a valuable partner for peace and development with fullest respect for international law. We trust that its contributions and its citizens’ right to adequate 17 representation can be guaranteed in the best interest of brotherhood so that all people can live in peace and enjoy the fruits of prosperity through partnership. Saint Kitts and Nevis therefore urges the United Nations to avail itself of every possibility to facilitate a sustainable resolution of the impasse that hampers Taiwan’s efforts to engage in international dialogue and contribute to the common interests of mankind. Let me end by reaffirming my Government’s commitment to multilateralism and to strategic partnership.  ﻿Uruguay believes in the United Nations, has faith in the United Nations, will support the Organization and will continue to contribute to it, as it has been doing since it became one of its founding Members. It is comforting to note that, at this time of crisis for the Organization, virtually all the participants in this debate have expressed this same sentiment. Some six decades ago, the United Nations was created to promote and regulate multilateral cooperation, by which the international community agreed to address and resolve common problems. The structure of the Organization, the functioning of its organs, and the rights and obligations of its Members, as formulated in the San Francisco Charter, all reflected the international political reality of that time. But, over the course of more than half a century, there have been profound changes in the structure of international society. Its actors have multiplied and become more diverse and there have been new and more dangerous manifestations of violence. New threats to peace that were not foreseen by the drafters of the Charter occur with increasing frequency. At the same time, there has been an intensification of certain growing trends that seriously affect the well-being of humanity, such as the degradation of the environment, 18 the depletion of natural resources, epidemics and the contrast between consumer societies and societies that live in extreme poverty. In recent years, and in particular during this general debate, special emphasis has been placed on the need to reform and revitalize the United Nations in order to adapt it to current realities. Uruguay shares this position, not only because it considers that this Organization has not been completely effective in its handling of some recent crises, but because it understands that the scale of the changes in the world today justifies the search for ways of adapting the institution. Although it is true that the system of collective security established by the San Francisco Charter has not always been able to respond to crises effectively, in numerous cases multilateral action by the United Nations has succeeded in restoring peace in many regions and countries, contributed to the consolidation of democracy, and accelerated the reconstruction of affected countries. There are many more cases in which the Organization, through its various organs, has exercised positive and decisive control over crises and conflicts, thus preventing the situation from becoming worse and ensuring a peaceful solution. The process of reform, which is indispensable and cannot be delayed, should in our view be based on the following premises. The first is to preserve intact the purposes and principles of the Organization, as enshrined in the Charter of San Francisco. After all, if we all gather here every year as the United Nations, it is because our nations are united around the values and ideals enshrined in the Charter and shared by all mankind, whose permanent and universal validity transcends the vicissitudes and accidents of history. The second premise is that the reform process should be aimed principally at strengthening multilateral action, because never before has the need to cooperate and act together to deal with international problems been so great. Common global responses are needed to the proliferation and diversification of international actors; the fact that the world is getting smaller and more and more interdependent, due to the increase in trade and the extraordinary development of information and communication technologies; and above all the globalization of threats to peace, security and the well-being of our peoples. To use the words employed by the Secretary-General in this Assembly two weeks ago, Uruguay believes in “collective answers to our common problems and challenges” (A/58/PV.7). Two years ago, the international community, through the United Nations organs, offered a fine example of solidarity by taking effective multilateral action in reaction to international terrorism, which threatens Governments, peoples, ideologies, religions and above all human reason, imbued with such elementary values as tolerance, compassion, solidarity and respect for human rights. The attack on the headquarters of the United Nations in Baghdad — for which we wish again to express our most sincere condolences to the Secretary- General — is but another example of the barbarity and fanaticism that we can successfully fight only if we work together. With this attack, terrorism has given us a raw example of its destructive universality. The deaths of Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello and of other colleagues is emblematic of the tragedy suffered. Just as in the fight against poverty, terrorism cannot be defeated as a conventional enemy would be with a victorious battle. The eradication of terrorism is an ongoing objective whose achievement requires time, patience and perseverance. Only through a joint approach and multilateral action directed above all at the roots of terrorism — not only at its atrocious manifestations — will it be possible to reduce and hopefully to eliminate this perverse and ubiquitous enemy and at the very least ensure its total rejection. Uruguay, which is party to most international anti-terrorism instruments, attaches priority to the conclusion of a general convention against international terrorism. In this respect, we wish to express our satisfaction to the Secretary-General for having chosen transnational organized crime and terrorism as an item in the signing and accession ceremony for treaties promoted by the Organization on the occasion of this general debate. The third premise to which my country subscribes is that we must not forget that the United Nations has for years now been engaged in a process of self- criticism and self-reform based on the idea that strengthening an institution means strengthening its organs. Reforms are being implemented in three of the main organs of the Organization. The modalities of 19 each one of the respective processes differ. In the Security Council, we are pursuing reform of its membership to make it more representative and to strengthen its democratic character. In the General Assembly, we are pursuing its revitalization so that its decisions can regain the authority they had in the past. In the Secretariat, the purpose of change is to enhance its effectiveness, an objective towards which the Secretary-General is working strenuously. These three processes are closely linked to each other but, despite this close link, we believe that they must continue to be pursued, as is now being done, separately, each one in its respective forum. For Uruguay, one of the most important aspects of these reforms is the strengthening of the General Assembly, over which you, Sir, are presiding with such dignity and whose decisions are the most genuine manifestations of the will of the international community. Recent reforms are aimed at making this organ more effective, but more profound changes are required in order to restore the authority which the Charter grants it and which the Assembly has exerted in the past. We believe that there is still a great deal of room for reform. Obsolete structures and procedures remain. We also need to re-examine and evaluate the organization, conduct and outcome of the annual session that brings us all here together every year, including the idea of concentrating the negotiation of dozens of resolutions into a few weeks. Uruguay will support far-reaching measures to revitalize the Assembly. A better relationship between the different organs is no doubt another of the necessary areas for reform. The fourth and final premise is that the efforts to reform our institutions must be complemented by equally vigorous efforts to change our own conduct as Members of the United Nations. When we agreed to become Members of this Organization, we freely agreed to fulfil in good faith the international obligations arising from the numerous treaties, conventions and other instruments that have resulted from the comprehensive legislative work accomplished by this Assembly, United Nations agencies and other international organizations and conferences. However, the provisions of many of these instruments are not being implemented. At times, in a misguided defence of sovereignty, common expectations are thwarted in order to satisfy national interests that frequently are not of decisive importance. Protection of the environment and the law of the sea are good, but not the only examples of areas in which a sharp contrast can be seen between the extensive legislation that exists and the degree of implementation. Consequently, year after year, the competent international agencies and organizations and scientific authorities report the ongoing deterioration of the general environment, the abusive exploitation of natural resources, pollution of the seas and reduction or extinction of marine species. The question of the fulfilment of obligations assumed is the weak link in the chain of multilateralism. We must seek ways of ensuring respect for international obligations. Over the long term, the satisfaction of common interests is the best way of satisfying the national interest. Without prejudice to this profession of faith in the United Nations, Uruguay, a country of Latin America, is actively participating in the Organization of American States and in the inter-American system in general. Uruguay is also fully committed to regional integration processes, in particular to the Common Market of the South. We see in these mechanisms a promising avenue to help overcome the difficulties that result from our status as a developing country emerging from the most serious economic crisis of its history and trying to overcome the obstacles preventing it from achieving insertion into the global economy, such as, for example, the huge subsidies that the industrialized countries grant to their agricultural producers. In this connection, finally, we cannot but mention the recent ministerial conference of the World Trade Organization, held in Cancún, whose lack of progress, in our opinion, is a negative signal to a world that is demanding fairer and more balanced rules, especially for countries such as Uruguay, whose economies rely primarily on the production of agricultural goods. We are hopeful that renewed impetus in the negotiations will permit us to achieve positive results in the coming weeks and months in Geneva, to the benefit of the less developed countries and the very future of international trade. I close my statement conveying my country’s satisfaction and pride in seeing you, Sir, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, a friendly country of our region, presiding over this Assembly. I wish you every success in your work.  ﻿You have assumed the presidency of the General Assembly, Sir, at a particularly critical time, when the applicability of rules, the reliability of mechanisms and even the authority of institutions have been called into question. We are now living through a period of uncertainty and questioning — uncertainty regarding the validity of certain fundamental principles that have been taken for granted and questions about the path to follow and the actions to be taken. Against such a difficult backdrop and at a time that is, to say the least, unpredictable, it is encouraging to know that we can count on your experience and myriad talents to guide our work. Guinea-Bissau is gratified by your election and congratulates you most warmly. Our programme of work is a heavy one because once again we have been unable to draft an agenda that is more streamlined and less repetitive. As in the past, we will therefore be confronted by claims that are all equally legitimate; unfortunately, however, as always, rancour will occasionally raise its head. This demonstrates the extent to which you, Sir, will require the contribution of each and every one of us in order successfully to complete your mission. In this respect, I note with satisfaction that all delegations that have preceded us at this rostrum have assured you of their full support. You may rely on the full cooperation of the delegation of Guinea-Bissau. This is all the more true since you have established your mandate under the sign of action, for it is clear that it is indeed vigorous action that we shall need to convince those who today doubt the ability of the United Nations to meet their expectations. We need resolute action to ensure respect for the principles and implementation of the objectives of the Charter. We need collective action to strengthen the United Nations capacity to resolve such urgent issues as poverty and hunger throughout the world, the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the right to full enjoyment of human rights, control of weapons of mass destruction, and the deterioration of the environment, our most precious heritage, to name but a few. We need concerted, multilateral and vigorous action against terrorism and all those practice, finance, instigate or are involved in it and commit such cowardly and dastardly crimes as the attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. We also need action to promote the adoption of urgent measures to guarantee the security of the Organization’s personnel. We need urgent and consistent action, too, designed to extinguish hotbeds of tension, resolve 23 conflicts and restore peace wherever it is threatened. We need thoughtful, participatory and realistic action designed to improve the functioning of the United Nations system by introducing the necessary structural reforms and more democratic, transparent and rational practices in the Security Council, in particular, and here in the General Assembly as well. We need equitable and united action to redress inequality in trade, which was recently denounced at the World Trade Organization Conference in Cancún, and to advance socio-economic development in the most disadvantaged countries. Each of us is aware of the daunting nature of the intricate task facing us. All these objectives and many others require of us the steadfast will to harmonize our points of view while keeping in mind the crux of the matter — our shared responsibility to work together in the interests of all Member States. This collective endeavour can and must succeed, without, however, obliging us to renounce our principles or ignore those rules, the relevance and utility of which we are well aware. To that end, we have a unique and irreplaceable framework — the United Nations, the sole truly global forum. To be sure, our Organization is far from perfect, but how could it be otherwise in a world as complex and unequal as ours? Moreover, we are the United Nations, as was so well recalled by the Secretary- General before this Assembly. Thus, it is not unreasonable to believe that, if we agree and if we so decide, our Organization could be restructured and better adapted to the rapid transformations we are witnessing and, in response to the hopes of all, more capable of meeting the growing challenges. The necessary reforms are possible so long as Member States have the genuine and unflagging political will to implement them. We have undeniably been sorely tried and tested this year. The tragic events of 19 August are still vivid in our memories, along with the bitterly painful memories of our late colleagues and friends, who were killed in a cowardly manner and cruelly wrested from their families. We will never be able fully to express our debt to Sergio and all the others who lost their lives in the service of the United Nations and the noble goals and ideals that we champion and shall continue to champion together. We must emerge from this ordeal more resolute and more united. Circumstances require no less and we are ethically compelled to do so. I wish here and now to congratulate the Secretary-General on his leadership and dedication to the cause of peace and to hail the dignity, compassion and humanism that he demonstrated in the face of such a tragic ordeal as the brutal, wrongful and unforeseen deaths of colleagues and personal friends. The United Nations, for the first time in a long while, has been bypassed — indeed, forced to take a back seat — in the management of a crisis, the nature and gravity of which required it to play its due role therein. Beyond the differences that emerged within the international community, and in particular among the members of the Security Council, regarding the right way to deal with an outlaw, recidivist and dangerous regime, the issue of Iraq once again highlighted the limitations of an Organization that, while universal, nevertheless depends on a small number of its Members. That is one of the reasons behind the many frustrations voiced year after year from this rostrum. Our continent, Africa, still faces difficulties of all kinds. Poverty and endemic malnutrition are compounded by the agonies of HIV/AIDS, which continues to kill millions of individuals. There is also the growing number of conflicts and the proliferation of small arms, which pose an ongoing threat to the peace and stability of the countries of our continent. This unfortunate picture is particularly accurate for West Africa, where several armed conflicts have erupted in recent years, with Liberia as their epicenter. Everyone is now aware of what some of us, the Republic of Guinea in particular, have been saying for years: The civil war in Liberia is contagious and the trigger of a series of crises and armed conflicts in the subregion. It has now touched countries that were once held up as examples of political stability and economic growth and were believed to be immune to such disasters. My delegation should like to welcome the progress recently made in Liberia. The people of that country deserve finally to live in peace. It is a people that, as we all know, has suffered greatly from many years of war and destruction. We were also totally shocked to see all those children being used as cannon fodder in a war that was unjustified and unjustifiable. We also note with satisfaction the progress made in Sierra Leone. There, too, it was high time for peace to be restored. We are also pleased that our friends in the Democratic Republic of the Congo have finally 24 committed themselves on the path to progress and national reconciliation. My country, Guinea-Bissau, has undergone some changes, the nature of which and the methods used to effect them have been subject to criticism, running the gamut from simple regret to formal condemnation. These are positions of principle that we understand and accept, for we have never ceased to proclaim our devotion to democracy and the rule of law. I recall here that my country was one of the first in Africa to wage an exemplary liberation struggle on behalf of freedom, human rights and democracy. However, the sad realities of life, particularly when they are characterized by chronic and dangerous constitutional instability, can unfortunately lead to the overthrow of an existing regime specifically to prevent the exacerbation of social and political tensions in the country that could lead to confrontation or even civil war. In Guinea-Bissau, a military committee decided to reflect in action the hopes for change of the majority of the population. Not a single shot was fired. No one in Guinea-Bissau has been arrested and I welcome the fact that the military has rejected any consideration of exercising power. In such circumstances, it is hardly surprising that the people have adhered to this movement, which has effected the changes they desired. Indeed, the people’s support was total. The members of the military committee for the restitution of the constitutional and democratic order were in fact acclaimed as genuine liberators. In Guinea-Bissau, we had been in an untenable situation. Our people, whose courage and dignity cannot be overemphasized, had had enough. They had reached the limit of what one can decently ask someone to put up with. I cannot sufficiently reiterate the extent to which our people deserve to be encouraged, supported and assisted. Now that we have decided to turn the page, to look towards the future and to determine how we, the citizens of Guinea-Bissau, can be reconciled, unite our forces, create synergy and act together for the well- being of our people, the international community should intercede on our behalf and to provide the financial assistance we need. It is indeed financial assistance that we need, because our country and our State are destitute. We need international assistance to recover, to meet our challenges and to ensure that our people can eat. We need to see to it that those who chose freedom some 30 years ago can finally see it flourish, enjoy its benefits and understand why they fought and why they have a right to a decent and better life. I should like to say here that, right now in our country, a process is under way that is bringing together all the vital forces of our nation. The political parties, the military committee and civil society — everyone has come together to meet the challenge as one and to answer the call of the people to join forces and work together. As I speak before this Assembly, the membership of the Government is under discussion. Thanks to concerted action and a professional and intensive analysis of the situation in our country, we have been able to adopt an interim charter that specifies all the stages required to restore as soon as possible the constitutional and democratic order that we and the international community wish to see return to Guinea-Bissau. An Interim President has been chosen by consensus. This President is dedicated to working for the unity of the country. He intends to strengthen national unity and to serve as a catalyst so that we can return to our ideal of progress and freedom. In conclusion, I should like to thank our brothers and sisters of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) subregion, who have striven to help us get back on our feet, discuss and find the most appropriate solutions to our problems. I thank first of all the Heads of State of Ghana, Senegal and Nigeria, who have visited Guinea-Bissau, as well as the ECOWAS ministers, who have never failed to support Guinea-Bissau. I also wish to note the assistance provided to us by the Community of Portuguese- Speaking Countries, which dispatched the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Timor-Leste to advise us and to voice the solidarity of that linguistic community, to which we belong. A country’s national unity is its most precious asset. I cannot overemphasize that fact and I hope that I shall soon see democracy fully restored in my country. Above all, however, I wish to see the people of Guinea- Bissau happy. It is a proud and dignified people that has suffered in silence — a most eloquent silence — and that deserves the trust and assistance of the international community. 25 ﻿At the outset, I would like to join the international community in paying tribute to the late Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, all United Nations personnel who lost their lives and those wounded by the terrorist attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. We strongly condemn that cowardly terrorist attack and reaffirm our commitment to supporting the United Nations in paving the way for the stability, security and sovereignty of Iraq. On behalf of the Government and people of Thailand, I wish to extend my sincere congratulations to Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia upon his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- eighth session. I am confident that, under his wise and exemplary leadership, this session, held at such a difficult time, will lead to a fruitful conclusion. I also wish to take this opportunity to commend his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, whose tireless efforts have steered the United Nations along a constructive path during a year of difficult challenges. This session meets at a most critical juncture or, as the Secretary-General put it in his address: “We have come to a fork in the road” (A/58/PV.7). This road was meant to build a multilateral system to ensure a better world for the human race. It is at this critical juncture that the threats and challenges to multilateralism of the past 12 months have underscored, more than ever, that in order to collectively confront these threats and challenges to global peace, security and prosperity, the 23 world cannot do without multilateralism. But, as echoed by many from this rostrum, the big question is: how? As the foremost multilateral institution, the United Nations needs to carry out its mission in the context of these realities. The Secretary-General has expounded his far-sighted initiative for the proposed reforms of the institutions and the establishment of a high-level panel of eminent personalities. Thailand lends its support to the Secretary-General’s noble endeavour and hopes that, during the next session, he will come up with a proposal that will take us on the right path. Many different views, agreements and disagreements have been expressed in this Hall in this general debate. This illustrates that the international community must learn to live with and be tolerant of differences. We may differ in culture, religion and values, but our differences and diversities must not become the sources of hostility. They must be a source of our combined strength to enhance partnership and multilateralism. We believe that the promotion of true partnership and human security will help the United Nations mission in fulfilling its noble goals. From Timor-Leste to Sierra Leone and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the international community can be proud of forging partnership in peacekeeping operations under the framework of the United Nations. Thailand is proud to be one of the 89 countries participating in United Nations peacekeeping operations and wishes to reiterate its commitment to continuing this partnership wherever and whenever needed through its participation in the United Nations standby arrangements system. For its part, Thailand remains firmly committed to supporting United Nations reconstruction and peace-building efforts, as we have done in the past in Timor-Leste and Afghanistan. Thailand has already contributed $250,000 to Iraq through the International Committee of the Red Cross and is committed to providing another $500,000 for dried halal food. Military construction engineers and medical personnel are also being dispatched to Iraq to provide further humanitarian assistance. We hope that peace can eventually reign in the region. No one deserves peace, stability and a prosperous future more than the peoples of the Middle East. Far too long have the people of that region suffered from violence, acts of terror and despair. We call upon the international community to come together in addressing this problem. All sides must seize the opportunity to embark on the road towards a just and comprehensive peace so that the people of Israel and the people of Palestine can at last live in peace, security and harmony. Terrorism spares no one, strong or weak, rich or poor. To succeed against terrorism, there is no other way but to be united. The Government of Thailand has worked very closely with the international community to rid the world of this scourge. Domestic legislation has been amended in order to enable Thailand to cope with terrorist activities and to suppress the financing of terrorism more effectively. We take no second chances in our fight against international terrorism. As freedom from fear and freedom from want are the two major components of human security, it is clear that human security cannot be achieved simply because a country wants to do it all alone. Rather, human security is achieved because all countries decide to do it all together. It is achieved because countries are willing to forge a partnership out of their differences to build strength for human security. That is why Thailand considers its membership of the Human Security Network an important partnership strength, complementary to the core values of the United Nations for the promotion of peace and security, economic and social development, human rights, humanitarian affairs and international law. Only two weeks ago, Thailand was proud and honoured to have hosted the Fifth Meeting of States Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. It was the first time this Meeting has come to Asia, where land mines are a threat to the security of hundreds of millions of people. Throughout our presidency of the Convention until the first review conference in November 2004, Thailand will do its utmost to ensure much further achievements and considerable progress in the core objectives of the Convention: mine clearance, victim assistance, stockpile destruction and universal acceptance of the Convention. Across the continent, as one of only three Asian partners for cooperation with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Thailand seeks to build bridges between Asia, especially the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, and Europe. We believe 24 that not despite our differences in cultural and social values, but because of those differences, Asia and Europe will learn the art of living together, creating a world of human security. Narcotic drugs and pandemics transcend all borders and become as much of a threat to human security as terrorism. Like terrorism, decisive and resolute partnership actions at all levels are required to tackle these global problems to achieve sustainable development. The Thai Government has declared war against narcotic drugs since taking office in February 2001. This year, we made it the peak of our campaign. Our battle against the scourge of drug production and trafficking, especially methamphetamines, must be all but comprehensive. Within the permit of the law, we have mounted an integrated strategic campaign, incorporating prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, and suppression. We hope to be able to declare a total victory by the end of the year. We have forged a more effective partnership with our neighbours and beyond to overcome this global scourge once and for all. This past June, Thailand hosted a five-nation meeting comprising Thailand, China, India, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Myanmar to discuss combating transnational crimes, including the issue of drug trafficking. Furthermore, Thailand is also forging partnership at the global level by working hand in hand with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime as a partner with shared responsibility to counter drugs and crime in the global context. Just as drugs tear at the social fabric of societies, diseases such as HIV/AIDS cripple human resources across the globe. Thailand commends the convening of the high-level plenary on HIV/AIDS on 22 September. We support the ongoing efforts undertaken within the framework of the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We also remain steadfast in our partnerships with neighbouring countries, particularly the Greater Mekong subregion, as well as with related United Nations agencies, to help tackle the global challenge posed by HIV/AIDS. As host of the Fifteenth International AIDS Conference in July 2004, we look forward to high-level representation of the world community to share the experiences, as well as to forging strong partnerships and cooperation to build a united global front to deal with this pandemic. With regard to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) — the disease that crippled many countries and affected the tourist industry so badly throughout the world this year — we found that only the prompt response and commitment of ASEAN and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) partnership enabled us to keep the pandemic under control and quell the panic and fear, which were worse than the disease itself. The non-traditional security threats of HIV/AIDS, SARS and narcotic drugs — “soft threats”, in the words of the Secretary-General — demonstrate once again that no matter what differences each country or region may have, international cooperation and partnership are crucial in order to combat both traditional and non-traditional challenges to human security. Guided by the principle of deriving partnership strength from diversity, Thailand has embarked on various initiatives to bridge socio-economic disparities at the regional and subregional levels with a view to enhancing peace and prosperity. The Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD), which is only in its second year of existence but already comprises 22 Asian countries, representing East, West, South, North and Central Asia, is a prime example. Within one year of its inception, the ACD had achieved considerable progress with regard to various cooperation programmes, even in the area of financial cooperation. The second ACD Ministerial Meeting in June this year adopted the Chiang Mai Declaration on Asian Bond Market Development. The Asian bond market has been heralded as the new financial architecture for the “world of differences”. Thailand continues to work for partnership based on diversity and difference so as to promote socio- economic development among nations. Given the economic disparity among our immediate neighbours, the economic cooperation strategy initiated by the Prime Minister, Mr. Thaksin Shinawatra, is the most recent partnership aimed at narrowing the economic gap between Thailand, Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Myanmar, with a view to generating employment and income based on comparative advantage and mutual benefits. It will complement other bilateral and regional cooperative frameworks, and serve as a building block towards advancing ASEAN economic integration. 25 Thailand has chosen the theme, “A World of Differences: Partnership for the Future”, for the 2003 meeting of the economic leaders of APEC, scheduled to take place in Thailand in October. The convening of that APEC leaders’ meeting reflects the belief that, despite the diversity and differences that exist throughout the region, there is unlimited benefit and potential that can be tapped through effective partnership. The meeting will discuss five sub-themes: a knowledge-based economy; the promotion of human security; financial architecture for a world of differences; small and medium enterprises; and action on development pledges. In addition, we will focus on the issue of counter-terrorism with a view to promoting economic stability in the Asia-Pacific region and beyond. The choice of those sub-themes shows that, despite the differences among APEC economies, partnerships on those issues can be forged for the benefit of the region and of the world. Last year, at the fifty-seventh session, I gave a comprehensive account of Thailand’s dual-track strategy to attain steady economic growth with social equity. Before concluding, I would like this morning to report to the Assembly on the success of our efforts to create economic and social partnership. That success is the result of combining the diverse strengths of both the grass-roots economy and the export-led business sector as engines of growth. We are confident that our economy rests on a secure and firm foundation that will lead us along the path of economic growth and sustainable development. Last year, the Thai economy registered a 5.3 per cent growth in gross domestic product, which was followed by 6.7 percent growth in the first quarter of this year. That is our best economic performance since the 1997 crisis. On 31 July, Thailand paid back all of its International Monetary Fund loans in full — two years ahead of schedule. The Government is committed to the eradication of poverty, as defined by the United Nations, by the year 2009. By placing human security at the forefront of the Government’s policies, Thailand is stressing its determination to ensure for the Thai people a society free from want and free from fear. Living in a world of differences will entail misery if we keep forging conflict out of diversity. It will entail hardship if we keep exacerbating disagreement. It will entail stagnation if we keep failing to make room for compromise. It will entail human suffering if Governments keep turning their backs on chances of partnership. And it will entail devastation if we use our differences as an excuse to always differ. But we, Members of the United Nations, live in a world of differences. It is incumbent upon all of us to ensure that our world of differences has a future — a future that will not entail misery, hardship and human suffering as a result of those differences. It is incumbent upon every one of us to work with United Nations institutions so as to ensure that our differences are turned into a source of strength for our future. Thailand is doing its part, and will continue to do so, for such a future.  ﻿I should like at the outset to express, on behalf of Denmark, the most sincere condolences to the United Nations and to the families of Sergio Vieira de Mello and of all those who so tragically lost their lives in Baghdad five weeks ago. I also wish to pay tribute to Swedish Foreign Minister Anna Lindh. She was taken from us by an evil act that is beyond comprehension, while carrying out her important work. We will all miss Anna; she should be here today. We need the United Nations today more than ever. We need the United Nations to provide a more secure world, to fight international terrorism, to resolve conflicts and to halt the spread of weapons of mass destruction. We need the United Nations in ensuring fundamental human rights for all people. We need the United Nations to establish, implement and develop an international legal order based on the rule of law. And we need the United Nations in combating poverty and securing sustainable economic growth. Iraq has been a key challenge for the Security Council. A united Council provided the United Nations with a mandate to assist the people of Iraq in a wide range of areas, including facilitating and supporting the political process. Iraq, the United Nations and the international community as a whole suffered a tragic loss in the recent attacks. But it should not make us waver in our determination to continue working for a better future for Iraq. Those evil attacks must not inspire other terrorists to threaten the United Nations presence in Iraq. Sovereignty should be transferred to the Iraqis as quickly as possible, but the international military presence must be maintained until security is fully restored. The United Nations role and presence in this process must be strengthened. Immense challenges lie ahead of us. Our goal is to ensure that the twenty-first century becomes the century in which each and every one of us can live in peace, stability and growing prosperity a century in which freedom, respect for the individual, human rights and democracy become daily realities, not just abstract ideas, for billions of people. Considered over time, the United Nations has a strong scorecard. We have managed to transform the paralysed cold war Organization into a key forum for international discussions and decisions in all fields. Let me highlight three areas where the United Nations could be even stronger. First, the United Nations is at the forefront of the fight against poverty. By agreeing to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, we have set ourselves measurable targets by which we must all stand and be counted. In Monterrey and Johannesburg the developing countries acknowledged responsibility for their own development, based on good governance, democracy and the rule of law. The African efforts must be especially highlighted and supported. Every individual on the African continent must feel the urgency of our collective efforts to improve his or her living conditions. Only then can the tide be turned on a continent that has been lagging behind for too long. Denmark's commitment to development speaks for itself, be it in terms of development assistance or in relation to trade liberalization. Especially for the benefit of the developing countries, we need such trade liberalization. Therefore, the lack of results in Cancun was a great disappointment. We needed results, both for the developing world and for the global economy. We did not achieve those results in Cancun, but Denmark will certainly work hard to achieve them in the future not least for the developing world. Denmark supports a high-level event in 2005 focusing on the commitments made in the Millennium Declaration in order to give new energy to the implementation of all the Millennium Development Goals. Denmark stands ready to provide a full account of its efforts to achieve the Goals, including in the fields of trade and development assistance. Secondly, the United Nations is essential for the establishment, the implementation and the development of an international legal order based on the rule of law. The United Nations was created with a strong purpose and a great vision. The concepts and values of the Charter of international peace and stability based on equality among nations and respect for their sovereignty are universal. The strength of our values and of our principles must be measured by our ability to apply them to the realities around us. We must be ready to adapt our collective actions to the needs of the world. Attesting to that is the immense work done in the fields of human rights; the rights of women and children, including the right to reproductive health care and services; the 34 struggle against terrorism; and the efforts to control nuclear, biological and chemical weapons. Furthermore, the establishment of the International Criminal Court is the single most important step in the modern history of international criminal law. It sends a strong signal that the international community will no longer allow the most serious international crimes to remain unpunished. Denmark firmly believes that a democratic society based on the rule of law is the best guarantee for stable development, in terms of both upholding fundamental freedoms and furthering social justice. Human rights are universal and must be applied by all States. It is imperative that all States be committed to cooperating constructively with the United Nations human rights mechanisms and that they overcome traditional attitudes concerning State sovereignty. Thirdly, the United Nations is at the core of efforts to tackle old and new security challenges. The Security Council has successfully taken on international terrorism, and it should continue to focus on how to deal with weapons of mass destruction. Another pressing issue is how to prevent the breakdown of societies and to address the root causes of conflicts; and, if prevention is unsuccessful, how to deal with the breakdown of social order. A strategic vision on how to deal with the new challenges is urgently needed. The Security Council still reflects the power structures that existed at the end of the Second World War. Consequently, a comprehensive reform is needed to make the Council more representative and, at the same time, to safeguard the efficiency of the decision- making process. It is of equal importance that the Security Council ensure compliance with its resolutions. The process towards more targeted and smart' sanctions should be continued. We must ensure that sanction regimes clearly monitor whether the objects targeted are in compliance with the aims pursued by the sanctions. Assistance to Member States in implementing sanctions should also be considered. Accompanying resolutions with incentives or carrot- and-stick measures could be another option. We would also welcome a strengthening of the division of labour and cooperation with regional and subregional organizations. Over the past 50 years, we have been building strong regional institutions to overcome our divisions and to manage our problems. With the initiative of the New Partnership for Africa's Development and the rapid intervention of the Economic Community of West African States in Liberia, recent developments in Africa are very encouraging in that regard as well. To further promote those developments, we must all continue and expand our political and financial support for the strong and progressive African leadership. Over the years, Denmark has been active in world affairs and has been a strong supporter of the United Nations. We shall continue to focus on areas where we can contribute to make the world a better place in which to live for all. Denmark is therefore seeking to become a member of the Security Council in 2005 and 2006. If we become a member of the Council, we shall work to further develop the Council's efficiency and its impact. We shall work for increased synergy among the military, political, humanitarian and developmental aspects of conflict management. We hope we can make a special contribution to solving the various conflicts that are still not settled around the world, and we shall do our utmost to prevent new conflicts from arising. Our aim will be to continue to build bridges between the multiple interests of the Members of the United Nations. Underpinning our vision of a strong United Nations for the twenty-first century is the need to strengthen and reform the Organization at all levels and in all its aspects. We express strong support for the Secretary-General and for his persistent efforts in that regard, and we hope that the Secretary-General's high- level panel will provide new inspiration and fresh ideas for us all. But we, the Member States, must take the lead; the ball is in our court. We must enable the United Nations to take credible, efficient action to meet the challenges of this century and of this millennium; that is our collective responsibility and duty. As a member of the European Union, Denmark is working actively towards these goals, and I can assure the Assembly that all the Nordic countries strongly support the Secretary-General's proposals and are ready to face these challenges. Let us together ensure that the United Nations is ready, too. ﻿ At the outset, Sir, I should like to convey to you, both personally and in your capacity as a representative of your country, Saint Lucia, my sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I am confident that you will lead its work with efficiency and skill. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, for his remarkable and effective contribution to the results achieved during the last session, results we value and seek to deepen further. We meet today at a critical juncture in world history. More than ever before, we need to chart and define clearly the path we wish to take to avert the confusion of concepts and the undermining of established principles. Doubts have been raised about the United Nations and its role; attempts have been made to circumvent it and ignore the fact that it was born out of the world's tragic experience in the first half of the previous century. From that experience, the world drew the necessary lessons concerning the need for collective action to solve problems, to prevent wars and to enable peoples to rule themselves and to cooperate for a better future. I believe that the time is now past for such doubts. Everyone has come to realize the importance of 17 taking action through the Organization in a spirit of cooperation and solidarity. That is the only way to save the world from new divisions and scourges. That new development places new responsibilities on us all to cooperate within the United Nations in a spirit that seeks unity rather than division, cooperation rather than conflict, real solutions to problems rather than ways of addressing them without justice and respect for the Charter, thus lacking legitimacy and effectiveness. Commitment to the Charter and to international law is the safety valve for the international community. The role of the United Nations cannot be reduced to the role of the Security Council alone and to the questions that it can or cannot address. In our opinion, the United Nations is much larger than that; its contributions embrace all the elements of the wide-ranging and complex international agenda. In that regard, we reiterate that challenges such as terrorism and illicit drugs, diseases, disarmament, protection of the environment, AIDS and achieving sustainable development can be met only through coordinated action in which all States, large and small, act within an international framework that enjoys legitimacy and is conducive to the attainment of common objectives. In that connection, I should like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his distinguished role and his continuing efforts in strengthening the purposes and principles of the United Nations to enable the Organization to shoulder its responsibilities and to achieve its goals. Kofi Annan played a significant role in returning the Organization to the centre of events. In the course of United Nations efforts to carry out its noble principles, many of its staff members lose their lives. In the recent tragic events in Baghdad, Egypt lost two of its and brave nationals who had been working ably in the service of the Organization's principles. Tragic events have struck many countries and peoples. Foremost among them were the events of 11 September 2001, which afflicted the friendly people of the United States of America events that we fully condemn and deplore. In the midst of the agony and anxiety generated by such events, inescapable conclusions have been reached: we must unite in combating terrorism on realistic, sound and legitimate bases; we must avoid confusing terrorism with certain legitimate acts that are inspired by the wish to break the shackles of occupation, domination and injustice; and we must understand that the desire to combat terrorism must not become the only yardstick for judgement. Experience has proven that in combating terrorism we must not fail to see that it is not a product of one of the world's major cultures. We must not ignore the fact that terrorism is not confined to a certain region and that the fight against it must not be restricted to the perspective of security or politics alone. Terrorism is by nature a multifaceted phenomenon. As such, it must be dealt with in a comprehensive manner that encompasses its political, economic, security, legal and psychological aspects, as well as the conditions exploited by some to justify it. The United Nations has proven its ability to coordinate international efforts and to achieve tangible results in this field. Egypt has participated seriously in all activities aimed at strengthening international efforts against terrorism. This has been Egypt's objective all along. In 1995, Egypt launched President Hosni Mubarak's initiative to convene a high-level international conference under United Nations auspices to consider ways and means to combat terrorism. This initiative gave expression to Egypt's keen interest in supporting the international efforts aimed at reaching a clear and precise understanding of the fight against terrorism, including through special negotiations on the comprehensive convention to combat international terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. The Egyptian initiative must not be construed as a chance for protracted polemics or disagreement that clouds our objective. On the contrary, it is a call to frame a document that expresses the international political will and reflects the international resolve to eradicate the scourge of terrorism, to restore peace and security, along with justice and stability, and to clarify the responsibilities of each and every member of the international community. Our world today is facing numerous challenges regionally and internationally. There are challenges to the logic of fairness, justice and peace and challenges related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the slow pace of international action in the field of nuclear disarmament. We are witnessing tendencies to consecrate the right to possess, develop, and modernize nuclear weapons. Some States still cling to the obsolete doctrines of deterrence and attempt to find justifications for the use of nuclear weapons. 18 Therefore, it has become necessary to widen the establishment of zones that are free of weapons of mass destruction. In this regard, I recall Egypt's repeated assertions, in all international forums, that rendering the Middle East free of weapons of mass destruction, particularly nuclear weapons, in a comprehensive framework that applies to all without exception or discrimination, is the only way to spare the region and the world the dangers that threaten all our achievements and all that we strive to achieve. It is unacceptable that Israel's possession of such weapons should remain a reality that some prefer to ignore or should prevent the international community in Vienna, New York or elsewhere from facing it fairly and squarely. The Middle East region continues to suffer from the absence of peace. There were high hopes that the historical reconciliation between the Palestinian and Israeli peoples was within reach after the Oslo accords, the parties' mutual recognition and the subsequent agreements and negotiations. Yet the efforts failed every time, seemingly because the Israeli party does not yet fully share the conviction of all, expressed by President George Bush and the Quartet, that the solution lies in the establishment of an independent Palestinian State, within the 1967 borders, that would live side by side with Israel in peace and security. The Palestinian people continue to be subjected to oppression, provocation, and aggression. They continue to languish under the oppression of a cruel and unfair occupation that generates feelings of despair and frustration and leads to a spiral of violence and counter-violence whose victims are innocent civilians. It is high time for the international community to reiterate its call to the parties to return to the negotiating table in order to implement the principles of international legality and to achieve a just peace in the entire Middle Eastern region on the basis of a complete withdrawal to the 1967 borders and of respect for rights. Egypt has continually made efforts to achieve that objective in Palestine, the Govan and in the occupied Lebanese territories, confident that the logic of peace will prevail over the logic of aggression and that the resolve of the people who yearn for a peace that achieves security and opens the door for development will prevail over those who continue to harbour ambitions of expansion and aggression and thus put the interests of their peoples in danger. They will bear a heavy responsibility for that. The situation in Iraq is cause for grave concern. We reaffirm anew the need for respect for the sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity of Iraq, as well as the need to create conditions conducive to the earliest possible withdrawal of the occupying forces and the assumption by the United Nations of a central role in assisting the Iraqis in the political and economic reconstruction of their State. Egypt affirms its readiness to contribute to the reconstruction process, in accordance with the wishes and needs of the Iraqi people and in cooperation with the rest of the international community, under the aegis of the United Nations. We look forward to the day when the aspirations of the Iraqi people are realised and when it becomes an effective and free partner working with its Arab brothers for a better future. Egypt welcomes the recent agreement between the government of the Sudan and the Sudanese People's Liberation Movement (SPLM), an agreement that paves the way for a consolidated effort towards a better future for the people of a united Sudan and one that ensures equality, security and prosperity for all its citizens. Egypt calls upon the international community to assist in securing the implementation of this agreement. The profound and eternal ties and relations between Egypt and the Sudan and our firm belief in the commonality of the hopes we entertain and the threats we face impel us to be in the vanguard of action for the achievement of that lofty goal. It alone can guarantee the maintenance of the interests of the Sudanese people as a whole, as well as the interests of the Arab world and the African continent. Egypt believes that cooperation for development is the cornerstone of multilateral international action. The eradication of poverty is a moral, human, and political responsibility shared by the countries of the North and the South. It is the shortest route to achieving international peace and security. A fair look at the international economic situation must conclude that it is impossible to accept the continuation of the current imbalance in the distribution of wealth among the peoples of the Earth. Equally impossible to accept are the lack of democracy in international economic decision-making, the grave fluctuations in the efficiency of the work of the world financial markets, the unfair trade practices against the interests of developing countries and the policies that lead to recurrent financial crises which eliminate, in a few days, the achievements of decades of great sacrifice. 19 We regret that the Cancun Conference was unable to produce the desired and previously agreed outcome of affording developing countries a real opportunity to benefit from liberalization based on balanced trade. Instead, it made liberalization an obstacle to the efforts of developing countries to promote growth and development under difficult and complex circumstances. Egypt has welcomed the outcome of United Nations conferences and summits, including the Millennium Summit Declaration, and has called for full implementation of the letter and spirit of the decisions adopted. Hence, we view with satisfaction the decision of the General Assembly at its last session to consider in 2005 at a high level the implementation of the outcomes of international summits and conferences. Globalization, with the hope it brings for international cooperation that benefits all, could turn, if misused, into an attempt at domination, thereby exacerbating the structural flaws in the international system at both the economic and political levels. Hence, there is a need for measures to increase the effectiveness of international institutions and to achieve good governance, which is as necessary on the international level as it is on the national level, and to create a favourable economic environment. There is also a need to adopt a comprehensive package of reforms that includes international finance and for mutual respect among cultures and civilizations so that dialogue and cooperation can benefit all and can promote understanding between nations and peoples. While urging the United Nations to continue its efforts in the promotion of international cooperation for development, Egypt stresses the importance of taking the cultural diversity of societies into account. It is also important to seek acceptance of the other as an equal partner in discourse without the imposition of certain models. At the same time, we reiterate that this cooperation must be the fruit of a new philosophy that posits the common destiny of mankind in a unified and interactive manner, whereby if one part suffers, the rest will subsequently suffer. The repercussions of the economic and social problems in a given country or continent can no longer be confined to a single place. Rather, these repercussions now swiftly find their way to the rest of the world. The United Nations should place the situation in Africa among its top priorities, in view of the political, economic, social, and environmental challenges facing it, as well as the outbreak of armed conflicts, spread of deadly epidemics and plunder of the riches and resources of peoples, whether directly or indirectly through the imbalance in trade and economic relations. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) constitutes a new starting point to change the standard of living in Africa. It is an initiative created by the Africans themselves, based on their own vision of their reality, needs and the great hopes of the African peoples for a better future and their wish to be partners with the world for the sake of development and progress. Egypt reaffirms the need to implement the resolutions adopted by the General Assembly last year, which took NEPAD as a framework for development in Africa. Egypt calls for the development programmes of international organizations to be adapted to the priorities set by NEPAD. Egypt urges donor countries and economic organizations and institutions to provide support to the African countries for the implementation of NEPAD and the achievement of its desired objectives. African countries have already established within the African Union the machinery required for the implementation of the initiative. The international community is called upon to help bridge the financial gap that impedes the achievement of poverty reduction in Africa. This should be done through a prompt and comprehensive approach. Egypt's belief in the centrality of the role of the United Nations in the world, now and in the future, impels it to reaffirm the urgent need to develop and increase the Organization's effectiveness. This includes the reform of its main organs, particularly the General Assembly and the Security Council. We all agree that there is a need for reform and that this reform is a long process. Many of the steps towards reform have been implemented. However, much remains to be done to strengthen collective and international action through the revitalization of the General Assembly and reform of the working methods of the Security Council. All States should be given ample opportunity to shoulder the responsibilities of membership in the Council. Therefore, we continue to support a comprehensive approach to the reform of the Security Council and believe that this process should be based on two main guidelines: a commitment to the overall concept of reform and the rejection of a policy of 20 taking small steps in one direction or another. The Open-ended Working Group of the General Assembly the only open and transparent forum available for the consideration of this important subject should also continue its consideration of this matter and abide by its mandate. The dangers that beset us all make it imperative for us to rally around the lofty principles established under the Charter of our Organization. We must translate our belief in those principles into continuous work that transcends greedy ambitions, hatreds, illusions and the desire for domination and hegemony. Our work must proceed from a belief in the equal rights and duties of peoples. Thus we will achieve the hopes of the peoples of the Earth and spare them hardship and suffering. The path towards that objective lies in the commitment to United Nations resolutions and the cessation of attempts to ignore, circumvent or adapt them to serve purposes incompatible with the Charter and with law and justice. If we uphold those principles, we will all be victors. The only vanquished ones will be the forces of evil and aggression, which will be defeated by our peoples' hopes for a more just and secure world for all. ﻿Let my first words before this world parliament be of confidence in the human capacity to overcome challenges and to move towards higher forms of partnership, both within and among nations. On behalf of the Brazilian people, I reaffirm our belief in the United Nations. Its role in promoting peace and social justice remains irreplaceable. I pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the leadership that he has shown in defence of a world united through respect for international law and solidarity among nations. The Assembly convenes under the impact of the brutal attack on the United Nations Mission in Baghdad, which took the life of its head officer, the High Commissioner for Human Rights, our compatriot Sergio Vieira de Mello. Sergio's renowned competence was nurtured by the only weapons in which he believed: dialogue, persuasion and, above all, concern for those who are most vulnerable. On behalf of the United Nations, he showed a tolerant, peace-loving and courageous humanism that mirrors Brazil's libertarian soul. Sergio's sacrifice, and that of his colleagues, must not be in vain. We can best honour his memory by redoubling our efforts to protect human dignity wherever it is threatened. I warmly greet Mr. Julian Hunte, who was elected President of the Assembly at a particularly grave moment in the history of the United Nations. The international community faces enormous political, economic and social challenges requiring an accelerated pace of reform. Only thus will our collective decisions and actions be truly respected and effective. In my nine months as President of Brazil, I have conferred with leaders of all continents, and I have sensed in them a deep concern to defend and strengthen multilateral institutions. The improvement of the multilateral system is a necessary counterpart to democratic practice within nations. Every nation that practices democracy must strive to ensure that in international affairs, decision-making is equally open, transparent, legitimate and representative. The tragedies that have befallen Iraq and the Middle East can be overcome only within a multilateral framework one in which the United Nations is given a central role. In Iraq, the prevailing climate of insecurity and growing tension makes national reconstruction an even more complex task. That impasse can be overcome only under the leadership of the United Nations leadership not only in re-establishing acceptable security conditions, but also in guiding the political process towards the restoration of Iraqi sovereignty as soon as possible. We must not shy away from our collective responsibilities. A war can perhaps be won single-handedly, but peace lasting peace cannot be secured without the support of all. Two years later, the images of the barbaric attack on 11 September still haunt us. There is a commendable willingness today to adopt more effective measures to deal with terrorism, with weapons of mass destruction and with organized crime. Unfortunately, there are also worrisome signs of an attempt to discredit the Organization and even to divest the United Nations of its political authority. Let there be no ambiguity on this subject: no matter how invaluable its humanitarian work, the United Nations 6 was conceived to do more than simply to clear away the rubble of conflicts that it was unable to prevent. Our central task is to preserve people from the scourge of war, to negotiate settlements inspired by the principles and objectives of the San Francisco Charter. Let us not place greater trust on military might than on the institutions we created with the light of reason and the vision of history. Reform of the United Nations has become an urgent task, given the present risks to the international political order. The Security Council must be fully empowered to deal with crises and threats to peace. It must therefore be equipped with the tools for effective action. Above all, its decisions must seen as legitimate by the community of nations as a whole. Its composition, in particular as concerns permanent membership, cannot remain unaltered almost 60 years later. It can no longer ignore the changing world. More specifically, it must take into account the emergence on the international scene of developing countries. They have become important actors that often exercise a critical role in ensuring the pacific settlement of disputes. Brazil believes that it has a useful contribution to make. It seeks not to advance an exclusive conception of international security, but rather to give expression to the perceptions and aspirations of a region that today is a hallmark of peaceful coexistence among its members and that is a force for international stability. Given the support we received in South America and beyond, Brazil is encouraged to continue advocating for a Security Council that better reflects contemporary reality. We also favour an Economic and Social Council capable of bringing about a fair and just economic order. It is crucial that the Economic and Social Council regain the role bestowed upon it by the founding fathers of the Organization. We wish to see the Economic and Social Council cooperate actively with the Security Council in preventing conflicts and in nation building. The General Assembly, in turn, must be strengthened politically so as to focus on priority issues and avoid duplication of effort. The General Assembly has fulfilled a historically important role by convening major conferences and other meetings on human rights, the environment, population, women's rights, racial discrimination, AIDS and social development. However, the General Assembly should not hesitate to assume its responsibilities for maintaining international peace and security. Our Organization has shown that there are legal and political alternatives to a veto- induced paralysis and to actions lacking multilateral endorsement. Peace, security, development and social justice are indivisible. Brazil has endeavoured to practice with utmost consistency the principles for which it stands. The new relationship we are forging with our South American neighbours is founded on mutual respect, friendship and cooperation. We are moving beyond our shared history and geography to create a unique sense of kinship and partnership. In this context, our relationship with Argentina remains crucial. South America and Latin America are increasingly seen as a region of peace, democracy and development that aspires to become a new outpost for growth in a stagnating world economy. We are deepening the already significant ties with traditional partners in North America and Europe, but we also seek to widen and diversify our international presence. Our relations with China and the Russian Federation have revealed unexpected complementarities. We are proud to be the country with the second largest population of African descent in the world. In November, I will be travelling to five countries in Southern Africa to foster economic, political, social and cultural cooperation. With the same goal in mind, we will also host a summit meeting between South American countries and the member States of the League of Arab States. With India and South Africa we have established a trilateral forum for political consultations and joint projects. The protectionism practised by rich countries unfairly penalizes efficient producers in developing countries. Today this is the greatest obstacle to launching a new era of economic and social progress. Brazil and its partners in the G-22 maintained during the World Trade Organization summit meeting at Cancun that the crucial goal of effectively opening markets is achievable through pragmatic and mutually reinforcing negotiations that bring about an effective opening of markets. I reaffirm our willingness to travel along a path that converges towards solutions that 7 benefit all countries, taking into account the interests of developing countries. We are entirely in favour of free trade as long as we can all compete on a level playing field. Liberalization should not require countries to abandon the prerogative of formulating industrial, technological, social and environmental policy. In Brazil we are engaged in setting up a new framework that balances economic stability and social inclusion. From that standpoint, trade negotiations are not an end in themselves, but rather a means to foster development and overcome poverty. International trade should be a tool not only for creating wealth, but also for its distribution. I reaffirm before this truly universal Assembly the appeal I launched at the Davos and Porto Alegre forums and at the Enlarged Summit of the G-8 at Evian. We must wage both politically and materially the only war from which we will all emerge victorious: the war against hunger and extreme poverty. The eradication of hunger in the world is a moral and political imperative. And we all know that it is possible. What is truly required is political will. I do not wish to dwell on indications of barbarism. I would rather acknowledge ethical and social progress, no matter how modest. Yet we cannot dismiss the statistics that expose the terrible scourge of extreme poverty and hunger in the world. Hunger today touches a fourth of the world's population, including 300 million children. Daily, 24,000 people fall victim to malnutrition-related diseases. Nothing is more absurd or intolerable than the pervasiveness of hunger in the twenty-first century, this golden age of science and technology. With each passing day, human intelligence enlarges the horizons of the possible and achieves prodigious feats. Yet, hunger persists and, what is worse, it is spreading throughout various regions of the planet. The more we seem to approach the divine through our creative abilities, the more humanity betrays its aspirations through our inability to respect and protect our fellow creatures. The more we celebrate God by generating riches, the more we hurt our ideals by not minimally sharing them. What is the use of all our science and technology, of all the abundance and luxury that it has generated, if we do not put it to use, guaranteeing the most sacred of rights: the right to life? I recall the penetrating warning, made by Pope Paul VI 36 years ago, but which is still surprisingly relevant: The starving people of the world dramatically address their plea to the wealthy'. Hunger is an emergency, and it should be dealt with as such. The eradication of hunger is a civilizational challenge that requires that we seek a shortcut to the future. Will we act to eliminate hunger or will we forsake our credibility through omission? We no longer have the right to allege that we were not home when they knocked at our door asking for solidarity. We have no right to say to the famished who have waited for so long: come back next century. The true path to peace is to fight hunger and extreme poverty to the end, in a campaign of solidarity that unites the planet rather than deepening the divisions and the hatred that inflame people and sow terror. Despite the failure of systems that favour the generation of wealth without reducing extreme poverty, many people still persist in their short-sightedness and greed. Since my inauguration as President of Brazil on 1 January, significant progress has been made on the economic front. Stability is back and the groundwork for a renewed cycle of sustained growth has been laid. We will continue to work hard to balance public accounts and to reduce external vulnerability. We will spare no effort to increase exports, raise the savings rate, attract foreign investment and start growing again. Yet at the same time we must strive to cope with the need for food, jobs, education and health services for millions of Brazilians living below the poverty line. We are committed to bringing about major social reform in the country. Hunger is the most dramatic and urgent expression of a structural imbalance requiring correction through integrated policies that foster full citizenship. That is why I launched the zero hunger' programme in Brazil. It seeks to eradicate hunger and its root causes in the shortest possible time by promoting major solidarity and wide-ranging programmes bringing together Government, civil society and the private sector. The results of those 8 emergency and structural measures are already benefiting 4 million individuals who were previously denied the right to a daily meal. The goal of this programme is to guarantee that no Brazilians will go hungry. The United Nations adopted the highly acclaimed Millennium Development Goals. The Food and Agriculture Organization has at its disposal outstanding technical and social expertise. But we need to make a qualitative leap in the global endeavour to fight hunger. That is why I proposed setting up a global fund to fight hunger and suggested means to make it operational. Other proposals have been put forward as well, some already integrated into existing United Nations programmes. What has been lacking until now is the indispensable political will of us all, especially of those countries in a position to contribute most. Creating new funds is of no use if no resources are committed to them. The Millennium Development Goals are very worthy, but if we remain passive, if our collective behaviour remains unchanged, those Goals may never materialize, and the ensuing frustration will be immense. Now more than ever, good intentions must give rise to concrete gestures. We must put commitments into practice. We must practice what we preach with audacity, good sense and our feet firmly on the ground, yet boldly, and with new methods, solutions and intense social participation. For this reason, I am submitting a proposal for consideration by the General Assembly to establish a world committee within the United Nations itself to fight hunger. It would be made up of heads of State or Government from all continents with the purpose of unifying and operationalizing proposals. We hope to attract donations from developed and developing countries according to their capacities, as well as from large private enterprises and non-governmental organizations. My life experience and political history have taught me to believe above all in the power of dialogue. I will never forget Gandhi's invaluable lesson that when out of violence something good appears to result, this good is at best short-lived, while the evil that it produces is enduring. Democratic dialogue is the most efficient of all tools for change. With the same determination that goes into my endeavours and those of my partners to make Brazilian society more just and humane, I will invest in the establishment of international partnerships that foster equitable development and a more peace-loving, tolerant and unified world. This century, so full of technological and material promise, must not be allowed to slide into political and spiritual decline. It is our obligation to mould, under the reinvigorated leadership of the United Nations, an international climate of peace and conciliation. True peace will bloom from democracy, from respect for international law, from the dismantling of deadly weapons arsenals and, above all, from the final eradication of hunger in the world. We cannot afford to frustrate such high hopes. The greatest and noblest challenge facing humanity is precisely that of becoming more humane. It is time to call peace by its true name: social justice. I am convinced that together we shall be able to grasp this historic opportunity to bring about justice.  ﻿It gives me great pleasure to convey to you, Sir, and to your friendly country, Saint Lucia, our congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly. I would like to express my appreciation to you personally and my full confidence in your ability to effectively conduct the work of the Assembly at this session. I would also like to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, who led the work of the Assembly at its last session with wisdom and expertise. I also wish to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Secretary-General and to express the gratitude of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for his continuous and tireless efforts to establish peace and security in the world, strengthen the role of the Organization, increase its efficiency, preserve its credibility and enhance its effectiveness. It is saddening and distressful that this session is convening while the echo of the horrendous attack against the United Nations offices in Baghdad that took the life, among others, of one of its prominent and towering figures, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello is still resonating in our hearts. I avail myself of this opportunity to convey to the Secretary-General, to the staff of the Secretariat and to the families of the victims of this tragic incident my sincere and deepest condolences. I would also like to express the hope that neither this incident nor the most recent one that took place a few days ago will impede the efforts aimed at promoting the role of the United Nations in consolidating stability and prosperity in Iraq. The hideous attack on the United Nations offices in Baghdad represents a challenge that can be dealt with and contained, and the necessary security conditions to minimize such occurrences in the future can be established. However, our Organization is, at this juncture, facing other challenges that are more serious than what happened in Baghdad, challenges related to its raison d''tre and to the principles and foundations stipulated in its Charter. These principles were not heeded and the responsibility for this is ours. This has in many instances impeded its effectiveness and credibility. Nevertheless, its ability to exist and perform and the contributions it has provided and continues to provide in various humanitarian, cultural and social fields through its specialized agencies are sufficient to encourage support for the Organization and provide it with every assistance it needs. In the comprehensive speech he gave at the outset of this session, the Secretary-General referred with clarity and transparency to the growing trend towards unilateral action outside the realm of international legitimacy in dealing with current problems such as terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This expanding trend to resort to unilateral action on the basis of the right to self-defence could undermine the principle of collective security on which the Charter was founded. We stressed this in the Millennium Declaration that was issued by the General Assembly three years ago. Nevertheless, we have to admit that not confronting such actions effectively and with seriousness and steadfastness when faced with dangers and threats such as those that emanated from the 21 regime of Saddam Hussein, have led, it seems, to confusion. This confusion has provided the advocates of collective action and the defenders of unilateral action with parallel arguments that each group is now using against the other. Whoever wants to criticize the policy of unilateral action will find no difficulty proving that such a policy could only exacerbate and increase problems. On the other hand, those who criticize the international community for being lax in acting collectively to confront such problems that threaten security and stability will also come up with arguments to prove that such reluctance and negligence in facing challenges is behind the eruption of the major crises of our contemporary history. It was therefore natural that, due to such divergence in views, a situation was reached wherein the focus turned to debate and theorization rather than to dealing directly with current problems and deciding on practical measures to resolve them. This is exactly what happened with respect to Iraq immediately before the war. International terrorism, in all its manifestations and forms, represents a very dangerous challenge to our international Organization and to the international community at large. It deserves our condemnation which must be resolute, categorical and unequivocal. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has expressed this position at different forums and international gatherings. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which has suffered and continues to suffer from acts of terror, has launched a relentless war against terrorism, enacted regulations that punish perpetrators, inciters and sympathizers with terrorist activities and has introduced counter-terrorism as one of the main subjects in the curricula of its schools. It has also taken a series of measures to close any loopholes in the way charities collect money, in order to prevent funds from being diverted for unlawful purposes. However, regardless of its effectiveness, the international effort directed against terrorism will not eradicate this phenomenon without addressing its root causes and the reasons for its spread. The Palestinian issue, which has become a constant item on the agenda of all the sessions of the General Assembly over the past five decades, continues to be a cause of instability and turmoil in the Middle East region, whose nations yearn for peace, prosperity and development. I don't think I need to go into the details of this issue, of which you are completely aware, but we should remember Israel's persistence in its provocative policies and practices, which focus on repression, persecution, political assassinations, settlers' issues and the ominous fence. This is an approach that has subverted all initiatives and proposals aimed at solving the Palestinian issue, including the Arab peace initiative and the road map. The solutions that were presented on the Palestinian issue were harmed mostly by the Security Council's contradictions, especially among its permanent members, in dealing with resolutions in this regard. We see resolutions being adopted but remaining mere ink on paper, and when the time comes for their resolutions on implementation, the veto power is invoked to abort implementation. The only way out of this vicious circle, from our perspective, is for the permanent members to pledge not to use the veto power when dealing with resolutions or measures aimed at implementing the substance of resolutions previously adopted. This matter may be one of the issues that the reform team proposed by the Secretary-General should consider in order to invigorate the role of the United Nations in handling current issues and challenges. The people of Iraq look to our Organization to end the confusion, anarchy and chaos that resulted from the collapse of the previous regime. The major problem facing Iraq now is the absence of a clear vision as for the future of Iraq and the fact that Iraq cannot control its own destiny. Iraq faces a grave and complicated internal situation, coupled with a delicate and sensitive geographical location. It is therefore of utmost necessity that we set a clear timetable that would assure the Iraqis that they are close to restoring their sovereignty and independence through an accelerated political process linked to specific commitments, whether with regard to consolidating the power of the transitional Iraqi Government or drafting a new Iraqi constitution that would pave the way for the formation of a legitimate national Iraqi Government under which all citizens would enjoy equal rights and responsibilities. Based on this premise, my country views the Transitional Governing Council in Iraq as representing 22 a positive step paving the way towards this goal. While we give utmost importance to the role of the United Nations in Iraq, we are hopeful that any debate on Iraq will focus on determining its needs and finding effective means to respond to them, including contributions by all Member States to this noble effort, namely the stability of Iraq. That must be done speedily, efficiently and in a way that would conform with the needs of Iraq. Iraq is a country of pivotal importance, geographically and historically, in our region. It possesses natural and human resources that qualify it to take a prominent role in the international community. All it needs from us is an initial push to allow it to regain its sovereignty, stability and growth. The manifestations of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are a cause of great concern and tension in the Middle East. This means that we must declare the Middle East and the Arab Gulf region a zone free from weapons of mass destruction. With regard to the need to increase the effectiveness and universality of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and its system of safeguards, monitoring and inspection, we also believe that certain standards and controls must be put in place to assure progress in all fields of the elimination of weapons of mass destruction. Based on this, we call upon all countries that have yet to join the Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT) to take the necessary steps to do so, especially Israel, and to submit their nuclear sites and installations to the international safeguards regime. The international situation looks again as it used to be during the time of polarisation, including increasing tensions, crises and divisions that have paralyzed the Security Council. Despite the fact that we have entered the third millennium, we still lack the needed commitment and collective political will to translate our commitments into reality. International peace and security are still but a hope and an aspiration for many people and countries. Comprehensive development is still a dream for many and a distant objective we all hope to achieve. In the Middle East, where countries suffer from these symptoms, we see in the ideas presented by President Bush, for the promotion of development in the Middle East many positive signs, which collectively present a model for fruitful cooperation between rich nations and developing countries. In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, His Royal Highness the Crown Prince presented an initiative aimed at reforming the situation in the Arab region in the economic sphere, with structural reforms as well as expansion of political participation at its core. If the region succeeds in benefiting from these two initiatives, its future will be promising. The fact that there are still chronic issues on the agenda of our Organization, like the Palestinian problem, issues of comprehensive development and the emergence of issues like Iraq makes it incumbent upon us to embark on two parallel tracks: credibility in upholding the principles of the Charter, and seriousness in implementing United Nations resolutions. We must not substitute futile and senseless arguments which would be useless to us all for practical solutions. Our deeply rooted belief in of the important role that the United Nations can play in dealing with crises and its efforts to avoid the horrors of war and to provide means for international cooperation make us more determined than ever to support this Organization and consolidate its constructive role. We want the United Nations to take a greater role in handling crises before they occur through the implementation of what is known as preventive diplomacy rather than through pre-emptive wars, in order to preserve stability and maintain international peace and security.  ﻿I take special pleasure in congratulating you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. The unanimous election of the smallest State ever to hold that post speaks not only of the confidence which Member States place in your own ability, but also of their recognition of the critical role which small States play in the multilateral process. We are delighted at your elevation to this high office, and we wish to assure you that, in carrying out your responsibilities, you will be able to count on the unequivocal support not only of Saint Lucia, but also of the entire Caribbean fraternity. I wish also to thank your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, who very ably guided the work of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly during a most trying and tumultuous year. On 19 August, the world was again plunged into shock and despair as we witnessed the heinous attack on the United Nations Office in Baghdad and the loss of life of United Nations personnel stationed there. A second attempt this week added to the toll of casualties. I extend to the United Nations family, as well as the delegations represented here, whose compatriots were the victims of that violent attack, the deepest condolences of the Government and people of Barbados. We pause especially to pay tribute to Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, an international civil servant and diplomat of the highest calibre. His death comes at a time when the world can least afford it. We join with Members in mourning his passing as we mourn all those who perished at his side in the service of the people of Iraq. Amidst the turmoil and carnage that has become a dismal feature of the daily life of so many millions in 12 our global society, this assault on the United Nations was particularly startling in its cruelty and distressing in its intention. As our Secretary-General has affirmed: “This was the most deliberate and vicious attack against the United Nations in its history.” It is the cruellest of ironies that such an attack could have been conceived and carried out against an Organization in which we all have a stake, and one which epitomizes the principles and ideals to which we all ascribe, and whose primary purpose is peace. The global environment, over the past year, has teetered on the brink of chaos. We have witnessed increased instances of the pursuit of violence and retribution as first responses to the resolution of conflict, and we have experienced the relegation of diplomacy and multilateralism to afterthoughts. Some of the most intractable problems facing the international community, in the year 2003 and beyond, are the divisions, uncertainties and doubts that have emerged since the United States-led invasion of Iraq. Our duty as members of this family of nations is to ensure that we remain committed to the United Nations, as the only organization that can move us past the current cycle of retribution to a path of sustainable peace. As we search for adequate collective responses to the non-traditional threats to human security, the task ahead will be to bring to bear a comprehensive, multidimensional approach to security, in all its aspects, and to reiterate the continued relevance of this concept to the global agenda. The challenges to small States in such an uncertain environment are numerous and at times overwhelming. We lack the financial dexterity to respond to economic crises as swiftly and decisively as is necessary. We have no military might and so our only avenue for handling traditional threats to security rests squarely within a multilateral framework, which resorts to military action only when, despite our best efforts, peace cannot be achieved through diplomacy. Since the end of the conflicts of European empire-building, our region, the Caribbean, has had a history of peace and stability, which is sustained through a simple but sure formula: celebration of our commonalities; tolerance of our differences; mutual respect for each other’s sovereignty; and adherence to the principles of democracy, good governance and the rule of law. We would wish to commend this formula to those who find the key to peaceful co-existence elusive. Barbados remains unwavering in its commitment to the precepts of multilateralism, and to the belief that no other international institution is better suited or equipped to meet the diverse demands for global peace, security and development than the United Nations. As members of this Organization, we are assured that our voice will be heard regardless of our size or economic power. Therefore, while we may not have the capacity to influence situations by way of exerting military, economic or even political power, we do cherish our right to express our opinions about any issue of concern to us, without let or hindrance. The United Nations is not a third party separate from the Member Governments but is rather the sum of its Members; it belongs to them and they share all the benefits, problems and collective responsibilities of ownership. Barbados shares the view so eloquently expressed by the Secretary-General that: “The United Nations exists, not as a static memorial to the aspirations of an earlier age, but as a work in progress — imperfect, as all human endeavours must be, but capable of adaptation and improvement.” We are all accountable for its shortcomings and must all strive for its improvement. To the extent that the United Nations represents our collective effort at a mechanism for global governance, it is amenable to the benefits of good governance practices. For we believe that good governance is as important at the international level as it is at the national level. It is perhaps the single most important factor in promoting development, reducing inequalities and advancing the cause of peace. We should therefore seize this moment in time to recommit ourselves to making the United Nations more effective and efficient. Bold and serious reorganization initiatives, including the revitalization of the General Assembly, and the reform of the Security Council are urgently needed. We must also find effective coordination modalities to give new impetus to the follow-up to the major conferences and summits of the last decade, which, in most instances, have simply been reduced to standing items on the annual agenda of this body and rhetoric-filled resolutions reaffirming the status quo. We must resolve, during this session and henceforth, to take concrete actions towards making the Security Council more representative and transparent and towards ensuring that the General Assembly moves beyond the symbolic politics of passing resolutions to the hard work of negotiating change. 13 For it is a source of the greatest continuing concern to us that too many of the premier multilateral institutions — which are charged with the fundamental responsibility of shaping the rules by which global society is governed, whether in the area of peace and security, or trade, or finance and development — are constrained by structure and tradition to carry out their mandate in a manner that is patently devoid of democracy or transparency. Reform must therefore extend beyond the confines of New York to reach deep into the operations of the international financial institutions, the World Trade Organization, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Financial Action Task Force on Money-Laundering and all other bodies that seek to prescribe the norms of behaviour for the international community without the full participation of that community in the decision-making process. If the International Conference on Financing for Development had one failing, it was its inability to conceive of a new system for financial governance to redress the deficiencies and imbalances of the past — a system that is durable enough to serve for generations to come. In this regard, I wish to reiterate the call made at Monterrey by the Prime Minister of Barbados, The Right Honourable Owen Arthur, for the creation of a rules-based world financial authority to supervise today’s complex global financial and capital markets better than the Bretton Woods institutions can, and for an international tax organization to oversee global cooperation in cross-border tax matters. Despite a commitment made by all States at Monterrey towards the development of a universal framework to facilitate all-inclusive dialogue on matters pertaining to international tax cooperation, sufficient progress has not been forthcoming. While we are encouraged by and supportive of recent proposals to strengthen the United Nations Ad Hoc Group of Experts on International Cooperation in Tax Matters, these efforts are insufficient to provide for a truly universal, transparent and legitimate intergovernmental framework to promote cooperation among all States on tax matters. Equally, Barbados believes that the all-important fight against money-laundering must now be waged by the international community as a whole, led by a genuinely representative international body, drawing its membership from all the countries of the world, within the family of the United Nations. While we are most appreciative of the vital work that has been done in this regard by the Financial Action Task Force, that body remains what it has always been, a task force with a limited role, and an even more limited membership of only 31 countries. An important step would be the adoption of an international convention against money-laundering, under the auspices of the United Nations. Such a convention would establish a genuine international consensus on the issue of money-laundering within the universal ambit of the United Nations, where the interests and concerns of all Member States would be fairly and equally served in a common endeavour against international crime. The proposed convention would complement the work of the United Nations under the 1988 Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, as well as the more recent Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime. In this connection, we believe that the greatest lesson to emerge from the experience of Cancun is the clear understanding that strategies and solutions that ignore the concerns and needs of the developing world, or that fail to analyse the implications of those solutions for the most fragile and vulnerable, are doomed to failure. The special needs of small States that have no capacity whatsoever to distort world trade must be taken fully into account in fashioning the new rules of trade liberalization. To do otherwise would be to condemn the most vulnerable groups of our global family to the real threat of marginalization by a multilateral system that is supposed to provide benefits for all. It is vital that focus be restored to the Doha Development Agenda and its work programme on small economies. Next year marks the tenth anniversary of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Out of that conference emerged the Barbados Programme of Action, which today still remains the essential blueprint for the sustainable development aspirations of all small island developing States (SIDS). As de facto custodian of the name attached to the SIDS process, Barbados accords great importance to the convening of an international meeting next year in Mauritius to review the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. We are convinced that the vulnerability and sustainable development challenges of SIDS, as expressed in the Barbados Programme of Action, in 14 Agenda 21, the Millennium Declaration and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation are now better understood by the international community. According to estimates, since 1994 small island developing States themselves have carried out approximately 70 per cent of the required actions and measures contained in the Barbados Programme of Action. The Mauritius review will present an important opportunity for us to take stock of new and emerging challenges and identify additional resources to advance implementation. The World Summit on the Information Society is conceived as a high-level dialogue leading to achieving a new kind of society, characterized by universal access to and use of information for the creation, accumulation and dissemination of knowledge. It implies the use of traditional and new technologies, especially information and communication technologies, as an essential tool for the enhancement of services and the promotion of dialogue among diverse cultures towards the attainment of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. We support the principle that the new information society must serve the best interests of all nations and peoples. It must seek through the available technology to empower the most vulnerable sectors of society and eradicate existing disparities within and among States. The issue relating to the passage through the Caribbean Sea of ships bearing nuclear material is still unresolved. We are, from time to time, presented with studies and analyses that seek to assure us of the safety of the ships and their cargo. Despite these assurances, we all know that there is no guarantee that international terrorism will continue to ignore such a significant target or that an unthinkable accident would not occur. A major explosion on board one of these ships traversing our region would threaten the survival of surrounding States. The most acceptable solution to the problem is cessation of the trans-shipment of nuclear material through the Caribbean Sea, since, on this issue, any risk is too high. In your address, Mr. President, upon the opening of the General Assembly, you called for action rather than inaction. This moment in global affairs will require courage and determination as we face the enormous challenges awaiting us. We may not be expected to complete the task, but then, neither are we at liberty to abstain from it. ﻿At the outset, allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the work of this session of the General Assembly. We are confident that you will draw on all your experience and wisdom to conduct successfully the work of this Assembly. I assure you of all the support and cooperation of my delegation and wish you success in your task. I would also like to congratulate the former President, Mr. Jan Kavan, for the exceptional way in which he presided over the work of the fifty-seventh session. I speak today with a mixture of happiness and sorrow. I am happy to address the Assembly for the first time in this plenary in my capacity as Prime Minister of my young country, after more than two decades of having sought understanding and support for the cause of my people and having often lobbied for support in the corridors of this building. I am also deeply saddened, however, for having lost, just over a month ago, an old friend — Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello — an innocent victim of intolerance, extremism and terrorism. I wish to pay tribute to his memory and to all those who have served the United Nations and lost their lives in Baghdad and other turbulent regions of the world. It was under the guidance of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, represented in Timor-Leste by Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, that exactly one year ago the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste became the 191st Member of this Organization. The President of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, Mr. Xanana Gusmão, and I bore witness to that historic act. Since then, our country has experienced significant progress in the consolidation of our nascent democracy. My Government has presided over the strengthening of national cohesion and has given priority to the unequivocal affirmation of the Republic as a democratic State founded on the rule of law by taking normative measures in governance to implement the provisions of a modern Constitution drafted by the Timorese and adopted by an Assembly democratically elected by the people. Open governance is one of the programmes of my Government. Based on the principles of good governance, inclusion, participation of the individual and collective responsibility, open governance was initiated in January this year. It consists of bringing the Government to the people in the remote areas of the country to hear first hand their priorities, problems and needs, as well as to clarify to the people the national development plan, the Government programme, available resources and the challenges ahead. It also seeks to instil a greater sense of responsibility in the people and to make them better understand the need for their participation in the reconstruction of the country vis-à-vis the implementation of the national plan, the methods of achieving the objectives of economic growth and of the reduction and eradication of poverty. In relation to the legislative process, we have prioritized the adoption of laws for the foundation of 6 the State, above all in order to avoid taking discretionary and subjective measures that are without legal foundation. Hence, more than 30 decrees and laws have been adopted by the Government for approval by the National Parliament. In this manner, we will create an institutional culture of democracy, giving basis to a democratic State founded on the rule of law and the principle of good governance. The challenges are enormous, however. Of the 900 schools destroyed in 1999, around 700 have been rehabilitated and more than 30 new schools constructed. Despite this, 25 per cent of our children remain without access to education. In the tertiary sector, we have a national university with more than 7,000 students. Hundreds of candidates are frustrated that their expectations of graduating from the national university have not been met. We now have a proliferation of institutions of higher learning that are not officially recognized by the Government. To deal with this situation, the Government has assumed the responsibility of preparing rules. In health care, similar challenges are being faced. Much of the infrastructure has been rehabilitated and more is being built, but the people want more assistance and means of support. They ask for more doctors, more nurses, more midwives, more ambulances and health centres closer to their villages. A national health policy has been adopted by the Government. We hope soon to be able to reduce the difficulties in this area with the cooperation of the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of Cuba in the provision of doctors to operate in the rural areas. In agriculture, more than 60 per cent of the irrigation system has been repaired and new systems have been built. It is important now to instruct farmers in the best methods of use for their systems and to make them responsible for the maintenance of those systems while the remainder is being repaired. In infrastructure, in general, the repairs and maintenance have been slow and difficult. There are 6,000 kilometres of roads to be rehabilitated and maintained, and our people are demanding the opening of many others. Many bridges need to be rebuilt, completed or built outright. We also are facing problems in the electrical sector, which is in deficit. We have re-established electricity production in all districts and in 55 of the 65 sub-districts. Dili, the capital, has power 24 hours a day. In the meantime, it is the policy of my Government to identify and develop alternative sources of energy that are more accessible and sustainable. Currently, we are conducting a feasibility study of such resources, in particular in the area of hydropower. Access to running water for consumption is very limited. However, it is undeniable that the number of people with access to running water is increasing daily, more so than in 1999. In the area of telecommunications, we are implementing an ambitious project overseen by Timor- Leste Telecom through a concession in the build- operate-transfer system. At the end of this year, all district capitals will have at their disposal fixed and mobile telephones, for both domestic and international purposes. With the completion and installation of the telecommunications system, we will also create the technical conditions necessary for the development of television and radio, delivering the best service in the media sector, which is free, vibrant and responsible. The process of reconstruction is taking place in an environment of peace and stability. However, areas that are key for guaranteeing the sustainability and credibility of the entire process, such as the judicial system, defence and security, will continue to require substantial assistance and support for some time to come. In other sectors of the Administration, we need qualified people to assist in the development of the capacity of the Timorese, in particular in the consolidation of the financial and banking systems, border control, legislative drafting and the definition of a national policy, promotion of investment and technology transfer. With this in mind, I would like to reiterate that, in order to guarantee the sustainability of the entire process and to meet two major aspirations – that of our people for peace, democracy and development, and that of the international community to continue to promote Timor-Leste as a success story, we must not forget to say the following. To our people, we would say — as we have been doing — that they should be more patient. Above all, 7 we must demand their participation and that they shoulder their responsibilities. We ask the international community for consistency, continued dynamic partnership and support. To the General Assembly in particular, we ask that it endorse the Economic and Social Council’s decision to include Timor-Leste in the list of least developed countries. In keeping with its history of struggling for human dignity, my country has ratified a number of important international human rights treaties. We are aware that the ratification of these international instruments creates legal obligations, and the Timorese State will do its utmost to implement its commitments under those instruments. With regard to external relations, we continue to develop ties of friendship and cooperation with our neighbours, namely, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand, and in particular with our two closest neighbours, Indonesia and Australia. As Prime Minister, I have made official or working visits to Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand, New Zealand, Mozambique, Angola, Portugal and the People’s Republic of China. At the beginning of this month, a meeting of the Joint Indonesia-Timor-Leste Ministerial Commission was held with a view to resolving a number of residual issues of recent years, as well as to promoting new cooperation in the areas of commerce, investment, development, education, health and security. The meeting had a positive outcome. We hope to finalize the demarcation of our land boundary this year in order to begin negotiations on our maritime boundaries. Boundaries, whether land or sea, define the territory of a country. Within a territory, one can exercise powers of sovereignty or jurisdiction. For this reason, Timor- Leste, having as its neighbours two large and friendly countries — Indonesia and Australia — hopes to see its borders with both countries demarcated or delimited by the end of my Government’s mandate, so that all the resources belonging to the people of Timor-Leste can be exploited in a free and sovereign manner, for the benefit of present and future generations of Timorese. The relationship between Timor-Leste and its neighbours is developing in a constructive and dynamic manner at the bilateral, trilateral and multilateral levels. Timor-Leste enjoys special observer status in the Pacific Forum and has participated as a guest in the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Timor-Leste is a fully fledged member of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries; the African, Caribbean and Pacific-European Union; the World Bank; the International Monetary Fund; the Asian Development Bank; and various specialized United Nations agencies. The fight against terrorism, organized crime and trafficking in human beings, drugs and illegal arms is at the top of the agenda, regionally and in Timor-Leste. We will make every effort to contribute to the eradication of these ills, which are turning into a real epidemic with the development of new technology. Timor-Leste is a country of South-east Asia which is linked to the Pacific by geography, history and culture. Our people are proud to be part of this great geographical region of Asia and Oceania — rich in history, culture and civilization, and comprising more than one fifth of humanity. We are deeply grateful to all our Asian brothers — Japan, the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, the Philippines, India, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand — who have responded without fail to our appeal for assistance, on a major or modest scale, depending on the capacity and experience of each country. We are grateful to all of them. I have just concluded a visit to the People’s Republic of China. Within weeks, Timor-Leste will receive the Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mr. Mahathir Mohamad. In December, we will be honoured with a visit from the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand. We continue to strengthen our relationships with other countries in South-east Asia, in particular Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Laos and Viet Nam. We deem it regrettable that the process of dialogue and national reconciliation in Myanmar is at a standstill. Timor-Leste associates itself with the concerns and disappointments of our friends in ASEAN, and we join our voice with those of others in the international community to appeal for the immediate release of Mrs. Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and of all others who are being detained, and for the 8 resumption of talks and of the process of reconciliation and democratization. My Government takes note of the commitments undertaken by General Khin Nyunt, Prime Minister of the Union of Myanmar, in his speech of 30 August 2003. We would like to express our deep concern at the abandonment by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and its stated intention to produce nuclear weapons. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has three countries as its neighbours that over the years have demonstrated friendship and solidarity. None of those three countries presents any threat to its security or sovereignty, thus the production of nuclear weapons cannot be justified. Timor-Leste is a small country with a small population. Nonetheless, it has coastlines on two oceans and is linked to two continents. Historically, we were for five centuries the only Portuguese colony in the region, and, during a quarter century, a territory occupied by Indonesia. More than 90 per cent of the population of my country is Catholic, and there are also two minority religious groups — Protestants and Muslims. History determined that we would be different. Our geographical situation conferred on us conditions for converging and relating. We remain different and, within that difference, we find our identity and sense of openness and tolerance. We know that we have something to give, but we also have much to receive. I am a Muslim of Arab descent and the Prime Minister of a country with a Catholic majority. Our tiny Muslim community lives in peace and tranquillity, integrated into society in general without losing its identity and without feeling alienated or discriminated against. The Timorese Catholic leadership has been exemplary in preaching respect and tolerance in relation to all religious faiths, constantly searching for dialogue, cooperation, participation and mutual respect. My country does not intend to put itself forward as a model of tolerance, mutual respect and coexistence between religions. I am speaking about our experience only to say that in this world of hate, violence, intolerance and extremism, there are some oases of tolerance, peace and tranquillity that deserve to be the source of new energy. Fanatics and extremists have existed throughout history and no region or civilization in the world can claim exclusive rights to virtue or truth. In this globalized world, there is no place for racial or cultural, much less religious, superiority. Extremists and terrorists have always existed. The fundamental difference is that the terrorists of today benefit from globalization and make use of modern technology as a means of achieving their objectives. It is rhetoric, and unacceptable, to define different civilizations and religions as a target. The fundamental reason for violence in the world is inequality in development and, in particular, the injustice of the international economic order. The target of extremists and Islamic terrorists is not the West, its culture and dominant religions. Rather, it should be stated that the West is a target as a consequence of the global order. We are witnessing a new reality. The agenda of the extremists is primarily the toppling of moderate and elite regimes and the imposition of theocratic systems in which the universal values embraced by a democratic State are called into question, as they contradict their views. Such an agenda would mean a return to the Middle Ages, with the Islamic extremists determining the fate of their citizens. The fight against extremism, fanaticism and terrorism must be waged on all fronts. One is the military front, where action must be seriously thought through and always implemented with great caution and clear-sightedness. The other fronts include the political, economic and social. The fight against poverty and exclusion must be integrated into our global strategy in the war against terrorism. My Government congratulates the people of Iraq on the end of one of the bloodiest dictatorships in history. The people of Timor-Leste know only too well the significance of a dictatorship. In order to be free of it, we sacrificed hundreds of thousands of our children in decades of unequal struggle. During our struggle for independence and democracy, we always believed that our efforts should be focused on re-establishing international legality in our country, ensuring that the United Nations take responsibility and demanding that the international community respect the Charter and United Nations resolutions on Timor-Leste. 9 My Government defends the concept that the central role of the United Nations must be respected by all countries, in particular those with the means and resources to strengthen the role of our Organization. With regard to the situation in Iraq, it is urgent that international legality be re-established in that country. The only legitimate means of transferring sovereignty to the people of Iraq is to hand over power to their democratically elected representatives. We believe that the Arab League must be a privileged partner of the United Nations in the process of transition and reconstruction in Iraq. As it is a regional organization representing more than 200 million people who mostly profess the same religion, speak the same language and are of the same cultural and historical origin, it must not be ignored or bypassed when its own interests and that of the region are at stake. My country is a good example of the kind of a partnership that can develop when the United Nations and its obvious natural role in the resolution of conflicts and the mobilization of international consensus is recognized. Each process is unique and has its own dimensions and characteristics, but our positive experience can be repeated in other places, and can serve as a reference point for Iraq. I would like to comment on two issues related to the Middle East, beginning with Palestine. We express our deep disappointment that the peace process has regressed and that violence has escalated in that part of the world. We feel encouraged by the presentation of the road map, and hope that it can assist in accelerating the peace process. We reaffirm our support for the road map and for the right of the people of Palestine to self- determination, independence and the establishment of an independent and sovereign State. We appeal to all the parties in that bloody conflict to cease all forms of violence, to resume dialogue and rigorously to respect the road map as agreed to with the Quartet. With respect to Western Sahara, the Arab and Muslim people of that former Spanish Territory continue to wait patiently for the holding of a referendum on self-determination, as agreed to by all parties in 1994. We appeal to the General Assembly, the Secretary-General, the Security Council, the Arab League and the African Union to encourage both parties to return to direct dialogue with a view to establishing a definitive date for the holding of the referendum on self-determination in the territory of Western Sahara. My Government is closely following the situation in Guinea-Bissau. While deploring the military coup that toppled the elected President, we are relieved that there was no bloodshed or loss of life. My Government supports the holding of new elections with a view to the restoration of a constitutional democratic order, if possible within the framework of the United Nations and the Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries, to achieve the necessary support for the bringing of peace, stable government and economic recovery. We regret the breakdown in talks during the most recent round of the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference held in Cancun. The industrialized nations must understand that the international trade systems must be rectified. It is neither ethical nor moral for the rich countries to preach democracy, human rights and the dogma of a free market, while practising protectionist policies that condemn hundreds of millions of human beings to perpetual poverty and dependency. It is less than ethical when they teach the rules of the free market while subsidizing their farmers with billions of dollars, making the products of our countries, which have a greater comparative advantage, increasingly less competitive. Timor-Leste has benefited from international solidarity, and we are grateful for that. But we cannot remain silent in the face of injustices and anti- economic policies that impoverish the rest of the world. We appeal for the renegotiation of debt and for debt relief for the poor and indebted countries. But we also believe that debt relief must be proportional to the measures taken by each country in adopting strategies for sustainable development and focusing on the eradication of poverty. This means increased expenditure on public health and education, reduced military expenditure, the strengthening of democratic institutions, the promotion of human rights and the independence of the judiciary. Those are conditions that are indispensable for peace and prosperity. In conclusion, I would like to touch on the theme of reform of the United Nations. The creation of this institution was the result of the collective experience of humankind, victim of the greatest scourge in history. 10 We congratulate the founders on their vision, but we are conscious that the institution reflects the reality of that period. In 1945 there were merely 51 Members, and it was viewed as a club for the rich and powerful, a “white man’s club”. But the United Nations today is a truly global institution, with 191 Members. The recent experience of Iraq provoked a new debate on the need for the structural reform of our institution, beginning with the Security Council, which is increasingly being called upon to provide opinions and to intervene in many regions of the world. We support an increase in the number of permanent members of the Security Council to reflect the current demographic reality and the new world balance. Many people are frequently asking themselves, and asking out loud, a few questions, such as “Is it fair for the Western Group to have three permanent seats in the Security Council, while Asia has only one and Africa and Latin America have none? Is it possible that India, the largest democracy in the world, with more than one billion inhabitants, does not have the same status as others? Is it possible that Brazil, with the world’s ninth largest economy and Latin America’s largest, a crossroads of races and civilizations — Ibero- Latin American, African and indigenous people — does not have status as a permanent member of the Security Council?” Throughout its history, Brazil has shown prudence and balance in the conduct of its foreign politics, an active and constructive engagement at the regional and international level and always a voice of moderation and dialogue. There are certain procedures that may have been understandable during the cold war period. But today the way must be made for principles of democratic decision-making that are acceptable and universally practiced. We must question these paradigms. We also believe that the term of the mandate for non-permanent members must be reduced to between six months and one year. That will give the 191 members of our Organization the opportunity to serve in this organ. Besides, a shorter period will allow the less privileged to feel the desire to invest their human and financial resources to serve on the Security Council. The reform and the democratization of a number of organs of our Organization are necessary and urgent. The errors and failures of the past, when the Security Council was powerless and indifferent to human tragedy, should compel us all to have the courage to accept a fair share of the decision-making that affects us all. Let the big, rich and powerful know that humility is the greatest virtue. Leadership means knowing how to dialogue, persuade and build alliances and consensus. There are challenges ahead. There are many threats. The resources of 191 countries are represented in this huge Organization. To respond to these challenges and threats, we must unite and build bridges of consensus and active cooperation. Allow me to conclude by saying that the future belongs to the optimists. We are here today because we favour optimism. That is why the struggle must continue.  I begin this speech with mixed emotions — happiness over the election of our friend Julian Hunte — Minister of our sister country in the Caribbean, Saint Lucia — as President of this body; and pain, because our United Nations lost one of its best people, as did Brazil, an exemplary member of one of the world’s soundest diplomatic systems. Sergio Vieira de Mello died for peace and human rights, causes that illuminated his life as a diplomat and a Brazilian. There are other unfortunate examples from other times. We lost Anna Lindh, Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs, and daughter of the one of the countries most closely linked to social justice, who was educated in the Nordic tradition of social advancement and commitment to peace and democracy. Years earlier, another Swede — Olaf Palme — died, a man of peace and good will, to whom the international community bade farewell with the song of Chilean Violeta Parra, Gracias a la vida, as a tribute to his struggles on behalf of the persecuted, the disenfranchised and the impoverished. At the beginning of the 1960s, while on a peace mission, United Nations Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld, also from Sweden, died in what was apparently an accident, amid the tangled, political turbulence in a Congo assailed by its enemies at home, as well as international factors that were depriving its sovereign leadership of vital oxygen. Still earlier, Count Folke Bernadotte — also Swedish — was a victim of terrorism while on a peace mission for the United Nations in Jerusalem. Even before that, at the end of the Second World War, Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg, who, from Budapest, opened the way to freedom for Jews who were being persecuted by Nazi barbarity, disappeared without a trace. It seems that nothing has changed. Social injustice goes on forever. Conflicts repeat themselves. The protagonists of historic change are physically eliminated or morally destroyed. The advocacy of violence is dragging us towards terrorism and war. Inspired by the values of social justice, democracy and peace, on behalf of the President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez Fr'as, I wish to reaffirm our support for the United Nations from a position that is critical yet unambiguous and totally consistent with its loftiest goals. These same values inspire us in Venezuela, a country that prided itself on being the richest and most democratic nation in Latin America, but that squandered its privileged historical opportunities and fell into a process of ethnical and social decay that has brought us close to the abyss. As a result, we had to assume a profound process of transformation towards peace and democracy. The sectors affected by the democratic transformation have resorted to force to frustrate this commitment of the majority. They have resorted to military coup, oil sabotage, financial panic and media terrorism. Thank God that they failed, but they still caused much damage. The provisions of a Constitution approved by the people in a referendum that expands the basis of democracy in a social State founded on law, and which is truly our country plan for all, have generated violent and anti-democratic opposition. Opening the way to participatory democracy and to an economy that is free, yet not anarchic, and that protects private freedoms without bowing to the almighty market, has stirred up the most egoistic and insensitive sector of our country and of the international community — the neoliberals. On this subject, His Holiness Pope Paul VI, in his encyclical Populorum Progressio, of March 1967, said “This unchecked liberalism leads to dictatorship rightly denounced by Pius XI as producing ‘the international imperialism of money’. One cannot condemn such abuses too strongly by solemnly recalling once again that the economy is at the service of man.” Entrepreneurs who took no risks, protected by a colluding Government under a captive market, who did not compete and who evaded taxation promoted a conspiracy against the legitimate Government of Venezuela, allied with international sectors that had been past beneficiaries. Now, therefore, our democracy, threatened unsuccessfully by certain Venezuelan media magnates, invites members of the international community to see for themselves in Venezuela the strength of our society and the immense civil liberties available in our country, including the broadest freedom of expression in our entire hemisphere. We will welcome witnesses to come to Venezuela and watch our television, read our newspapers, interview the owners of the private media, listen to commentators and news anchors, and draw their own conclusions. We need them to familiarize themselves with the most hidden threat against democracy: the media dictatorship, a mirror of the culture of violence and mediocrity. Our process of social change in peace and democracy was interrupted by an assault against legality by the media and their hypnotized followers. In scarcely three days, during their ephemeral de facto Government, all democratic institutions were abolished, before people and soldiers in the streets restored normalcy. Today, we aspire to peace and reconciliation among Venezuelans. In our democracy, there is room and hope for everyone. We want also peace for our sister Colombia and in Northern Ireland, in the Balkans, between Jews and Palestinians and throughout the world. Peace is also the aspiration of the Members of the United Nations, but there will not be lasting peace without social justice; there will not be stable democracies without social justice; and freedom will be a fraud without social justice. We congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his balanced and firm guidance of the Organization at the very difficult time that the world is passing through and on his wise and heartfelt message to this democratic Assembly. This year, our activities in the General Assembly are overclouded by the attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, where so many faithful servants of the Organization lost their lives, by the aftermath of the war and the tense situation existing in the Middle East and by the alarming world poverty indices, a scenario that leads us to profound reflection and demands that we strengthen the Organization’s capacity to respond. Venezuela’s action has been aimed at restoring and promoting multilateralism as a means and a blueprint for the shaping of a more democratic world. Unilateralism is monochromatic, worn out, oppressive and authoritarian; multilateralism is polychromatic, animated, tolerant and democratic. In that conviction, we assumed the responsibility of chairing the Group of 77 last year and the Group of 15, whose summit meeting we will hold next year in my country. There are mechanisms through which the developing world is expressing its multilateral voice and its aspirations to the universal common good and to international social justice. 37 Historical developments since 1945 require that we have a more democratic and more representative Security Council. We must strengthen the General Assembly given its democratic and participatory nature. We want the Economic and Social Council to be the powerful organ that it has not been allowed to be. The Charter of the United Nations cannot be tailored to suit unilateral conveniences. War is not a romantic adventure that brings us to a happy ending in which the superheroes defeat the villains. Sometimes, war turns into a death trap that causes harsher suffering than the suffering that, in theory, it intends to alleviate. Sometimes, it brings other wars, more violence and more terrorism. Use of force by the State should not be undertaken at the discretion of those who happen to be interested at the time. The responsibility of the Organization’s Members is collective, as the international security that we want to protect and guarantee must be. We all desire a better world for future generations, and why not for ourselves? We are all protagonists in this world drama; hegemonies appear archaic and authoritarian. Our objective is a strengthened, universal and democratic Organization. A year ago in this Hall, we condemned the abominable terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, in which we lost thousands of citizens of the United States and of other countries. That sudden holocaust was perhaps the product of religious fundamentalism, but it is unjust to single out the believers of one faith for acts of extremist minorities when other minorities of believers have also committed crimes against humanity in the name of the Lord. Terrorism destroys human lives, both of innocents and of combatants; it torments family members, friends and peoples. There is no good terrorism, not in the name of an ethnicity or of a nationality; not in the name of justice or of freedom; not in the name of God. Four days ago, on behalf of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, I deposited the ratification instruments of the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflicts. Yesterday, the Venezuelan Parliament made the Inter-American Convention against Terrorism a law of the Republic. We hope that the ratification procedure will be completed within the Organization of American States as soon as possible. Nevertheless, we must continue the frontal assault on the most widespread and destructive forms of terrorism: poverty and social exclusion. The developing world is suffering from hunger, poverty and exclusion caused by an unjust economic system enveloped in the practices of savage neo-liberalism and in the globalized economy with an unfair scheme of commercial trade that generates unemployment, exploitation, inequality and resentment. It is a system that attacks the dignity of the human person. Its leaders are not accustomed to speaking of social justice in their statements. One initiative that the President of Venezuela has undertaken to fight poverty is the creation of an international humanitarian fund that we proposed at the International Conference on Financing for Development, held at Monterrey; at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg; and once again in the General Assembly. The fund is designed to be a consistent and innovative source for financing non- refundable resources coming from the reduction of military expenditures and money confiscated as a result of narco-trafficking and corruption. It will be an effective formula of international assistance to generate opportunities for economic and social progress in countries excluded from traditional financing schemes. Converging proposals make us optimistic in the light of this type of initiative. I conclude with a quotation from His Holiness John Paul II in 1994: “The world longs for peace and has a desperate need of peace. Yet wars, conflicts, increasing violence and situations of social unrest and endemic poverty continue to reap innocent victims and to cause divisions between individuals and peoples. At times peace appears a truly unattainable goal! In a climate made cold by indifference and occasionally poisoned by hatred, how can one hope for the dawn of an era of peace, which only feelings of solidarity and of love can usher in?” That is how all Members of the Organization should concentrate our efforts to find the necessary means that will enable us to ensure peace and democracy at home and in the international community, availing ourselves of the best antidote to violence: social justice.  ﻿It is a great pleasure for me to join with others who have spoken before me in congratulating, on behalf of my country, the Union of the Comoros, and on my own behalf, Mr. Julian Hunte on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. We are convinced that, given his wisdom and extensive experience, he will guide our work to a successful 8 outcome. I am very pleased to assure him of the full cooperation and support of my entire delegation. I would also like to express appreciation for the openness demonstrated by his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan, throughout the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, over which he presided with the skill and farsightedness that we all know so well. I also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedication to this global Organization a sentiment that I am sure is shared by all nations. It goes without saying that the challenges before us are great, as many changes are taking place in the world at an ever-increasing rate, requiring renewed commitment on the part of the United Nations, as well as a strengthening of its role. Unfortunately, every day we see evidence of the risks that such changes entail. In this context my country, the Union of the Comoros, joins those who have paid tribute to the memory of the United Nations staff members who fell as a result of the indiscriminate violence and terrorism in Baghdad, including the Special Representative of the Secretary- General, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. Today more than ever, we should be concerned about the direction in which the world is heading. The world is characterized by violence, poverty and despair despite the fact that science and technology have never been more advanced and wealth never more abundant. The division of the world into developed and developing countries does nothing to assuage our common fears and uncertainties. It is true that the countries of the North are, increasingly, questioning themselves on the subject terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. But it must be recognized that the countries of the South, while asking themselves the same questions, are also labouring increasingly under the burden of debt, civil war, insecurity, poverty and endemic disease. The pursuit of security and harmony in the world therefore requires a sustained focus on all countries with a view to achieving a safer, more unified and more humane world. Of course, as we see every day, terrorism, cowardly and indiscriminate, thrives in poverty and seeks to express itself through violence, exploiting the weakest links in the global chain. It respects no boundary, no race and no religion. As His Excellency George W. Bush, President of the United States of America, rightly said in his address to the General Assembly, the victims of terrorism are also to be found in Bali, Casablanca, Dar es Salaam, Mombassa, Nairobi and Baghdad. We must respond, therefore, so as to ensure that such borderless networks never gain any respite and so as to prevent cowardice from holding sway and destroying humanity. In order to better combat this situation, we must bring terrorists to justice and commit ourselves resolutely to the long-term fight against terrorism itself. In order to do so, we must fight frustration and injustice and appeal for greater tolerance and for respect for the right to differ and for the right of every people to live in dignity. In suppressing terrorism, however, we must guard against any tendency to strike a blow against human rights, and refrain from equating terrorism with certain religions or regions. Indeed, committing such a grave mistake could give rise to a vicious circle of hatred, vengeance and isolationism at the global level. My country is steadfastly committed to preventing and combating terrorism in all its forms, and we have set up the necessary institutional mechanisms to this end. We appeal for greater technical and logistical support from the international community to help us to be more successful in this fight. All the countries of the world those of the North and South alike have a shared destiny. Countries and peoples cannot get along without each other. Solidarity is a necessity; complementarity is an obligation. But we must recognize and reaffirm that we cannot today truly talk about security in a world of poverty. We cannot talk about peace if we do not ensure the economic development and well-being of all peoples. Harmony and democracy cannot reign in the world if it is rife with inequalities and disparities that leave entire sectors of the global population in conditions of uncertainty, precariousness and oblivion. We have, indeed, forgotten that humankind must be at the centre of all of our concerns. Unfortunately, the general feeling of uncertainty the daily fear that all of us experience vividly brings to mind the fact that, whatever the social status of particular individuals, humankind is vulnerable and people need each other in order to be reassured and to survive. But the insecurity that causes so much anxiety throughout the world and makes it seem so fragile has 9 a number of different sources. We are entitled to ask, as we consider the current situation, if it was wise in the past to have brought together almost by force people of various nationalities, given that nothing was done to foster a common desire among them to live together. It should come as no surprise, therefore, that there are inter-ethnic problems and friction between nationalities in many States throughout the world, and that these are a source of instability and insecurity. That shows the seriousness of lack of respect for the differences and even the character of each people in the world's harmonious development. Countries and peoples throughout the world are searching for their integrity, their sovereignty and their identity. Most often, of course, that generates threats to peace and security. The same causes produce the same effects everywhere. My country, the Union of the Comoros today still a victim of its colonial past is very eloquent testimony to that. But there are similar cases, particularly in China, in Morocco, in Palestine and in other regions. Under those conditions, the Comorian State is experiencing as might be the case for any other country all the difficulties of achieving real development in its desire to consolidate democracy. Today, democracy and respect for human rights are requirements that must be respected by every country. It is universally established that democracy is the most appropriate remedy to overcome the pain of countries and of peoples. But it is also established that, whatever the remedy, the dose must be prescribed according to the patient's age and physical state, and obviously one must always bear in mind the possible side effects. So we must help every country to move at its own pace on the path of democracy, while bearing in mind each people's history and traditions. The dialogue of cultures openness towards the other must be a permanent inspiration in the commitment to a peaceful and responsible international life. Multilateralism which is the guarantee of participation by every nation in the world's progress must be safeguarded and strengthened. Therefore, we support the proposals of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for a restructuring of the Organization so that it will be effective and can meet current challenges. In that way, the moral authority of the United Nations will be gradually restored and maintained. As for the Security Council the body charged with maintaining peace and security it must be reformed and its role must be fine-tuned. That is an essential condition for ensuring the success of its diverse missions. In its development, the world if it is to be harmonious and stable must concern itself with and bear in mind the most vulnerable regions and the most disadvantaged countries. Among those, the small island States deserve particular attention so that we can bridge the development gap inherent to their geographical situation. Only economic development and thus real solidarity between rich and poor countries will guarantee stability and peace in the world. Thus will democracy and the rule of law be consolidated and strengthened. The New Partnership for Africa's Development an ambitious project conceived in Africa by Africans for Africans must be a reality that is supported by and profitable for all. Debt which is a true burden and is truly stifling developing economies must be circumscribed and overcome to liberate the countries of the South and to give them the capacity for real involvement in global wealth creation. But, in order to support the survival and emergence of our economies, we must also put an end to agricultural product subsidies in the countries of the North and let the market have free reign. Our countries seek and need support so that they can emerge from economic marginalization. Our assets and our potential deserve to be valued. Our efforts must be encouraged. My country, which believes in Africa's ability to take charge of itself, is facing its future with determination and responsibility. I do not believe it is useful to return to the ups and downs that have marked my country's historical development particularly the past few years, characterized by a secessionist crisis with tragic consequences. Today, I welcome the new- found normality and the significant progress achieved. We owe that success to Comorian wisdom, to the national conscience and to the multiform assistance of all our bilateral and multilateral partners. Today, we must still establish the Assemblies. But the Comorians are convinced that only real economic development can guarantee national cohesion and ensure a secure future. The international community's support is needed more than ever before. I thank our partner countries and organizations, particularly the Republic of South Africa and the African Union, which have always had 10 confidence in the Comorian people and stand by them in their resolve to achieve stability and well-being for every citizen. Together, we have an opportunity to guarantee a more just and more humane world. The international system's weaknesses, the blindness and the deafness, and the ill-fated and suicidal networks must be overcome, allowing the emergence of an international conscience, the guarantee of unity, peace and solidarity. The world needs each of us, every country and every difference, to guarantee its future. Let us commit ourselves, all together, with resolve and determination.  ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate the Honourable Julian Hunte on the occasion of his election to the important position of President, at the fifty-eighth session, of the General Assembly — the most representative and prestigious organization in the world. I am convinced that his election is recognition of both the achievements of the country he represents and his personal merits. Allow me also to express my gratitude to Mr. Jan Kavan for the responsibility he showed in carrying out his duties as President at the previous session. I also must point out the remarkable role played by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in enhancing the authority and efficiency of the United Nations, particularly in the context of the dramatic events that the international community faced during the past few years. For the entire world, the United Nations was and continues to be an organization serving the noble ideals of peace, equality and economic prosperity of the peoples on our planet. The international community has undertaken enormous efforts to ensure that phenomena alien to the spirit and aspirations of the contemporary world such as poverty, oppression, terrorism and the dangers of ecological disaster are perceived as reasons for general concern that have in turn led to mobilization of all nations’ forces. We are aware of how the international community has gone beyond adopting emotive humanitarian declarations to establish institutions and organizations that are not only actively analysing various problems, but are also working to correct economic, social and political developments, wherever they occur. Global threats are being given a global rebuff, and the chaos of destruction is ever more strongly opposed by integrated ethics and new technology for structuring international relations based on supranational values of human civilization, the universality of the principles of democracy, civil freedoms and life itself. The epochal Millennium Summit and the summits held at Rome, Monterrey, Doha and Johannesburg marked the foreshadowing of a new system of global priorities aimed at preventing and neutralizing possible threats. Clearly, that system is leaving less and less room for resolving the individual problems of sovereign States and is increasingly opening the way for making use of international mechanisms to that end. That system, which has been increasingly gaining in modern politics, is now determining the new context of the relationship between States and international institutions, excluding the dependent attitude of trivial profiting assumed by national elites towards international assistance and requiring a responsible and decisive approach to the issue of reforming our own 9 economies and establishing modern social and political standards. Undoubtedly, we are currently entering a century of integration, an era in which traditional inter-State barriers are coming down. Yet, it is an era in which the local interests of some countries may in fact lead to benefits for the entire community. Therefore, it is extremely important to be aware that the current stage of globalization will not disappoint us, only if, on the way to integration — the integration of values and standards — the initiative for taking the first step belongs to the States themselves. That is a task that in principle is new for all us — heads of State and politicians. It is not gratuitous that I began my speech with these considerations. I did so at the outset because only such an approach can provide for the success of the State I represent to significant extent. Moldova embarked on the path of independent development 12 years ago. The chronic Transnistrian problem, de-industrialization and economic recession, poverty, nationalism and separatism served for a decade as the calling card of our country. The “first step” policy is being implemented in Moldova in two areas of the utmost importance. First, there is the problem of the Transnistrian settlement. We are aware of the fundamental character of the motives that are at the core of this 10-year-old conflict. As the primary way to resolve these contradictions, we have proposed that a new State constitution be drafted and adopted through joint efforts. In the draft that currently is being elaborated, we are insisting on giving up the status of unitary State, which does not take into account the profound specific characteristics of the Transnistrian region. We are laying as the basis of the new State draft the principles of the federative organization of our country, which take into consideration the long-term interests of all the regions of Moldova. In eliminating the effects of the nationalistic hysteria characteristic of the early 1990s, which divided both the society and the country, Moldova has declared itself determined to build a harmonious multi- ethnic society, based on principles of ethnic and linguistic liberalism and pluralism. I believe that it is precisely this policy that corresponds to those integrationist trends that are replacing isolationism and secessionism. Unity in diversity — that is the principle of our policy today, and that is the motto of the Moldovan chairmanship in the Council of Europe. We are firmly convinced that only those transformations will be able to serve as the proper basis for resolving both the domestic problems of the Moldovan State and the problems concerning regional security. In the second place, the Republic of Moldova has proclaimed the path of European integration a priority national strategy of the State. We are well aware of how difficult that path is, and of the responsibility it requires, but at the same time we firmly state that it represents first and foremost an internal political and economic option for Moldova. We know that this option requires effective and comprehensive consolidation of the market economy institutions, further advancement of democratic reforms and the development of civil society and the social sphere. Yet however difficult the task before us may be, we hope that in time our decision will lead to the establishment of a national consensus. Peace and security on our planet may constitute the guarantee that all States will adopt a joint position regarding the acknowledgement of modern social, economic, political and legal standards. It is clear that there is no other way. Humankind is currently more vulnerable than ever to crises and disasters of every scope and degree. That is why civilization today does not have, and should not have, any local problems; nor does it, or should it, have any dark corners where, as in a hothouse, terrorism, repression and defiant disdain for the opinion of the international community can flourish. In developing such a position, the most important role lies with the Security Council. In that context, I express my support for the idea of making the Security Council more representative. The Republic of Moldova stands for a reasonable increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members in the Security Council, which would further ensure the principle of equal geographic representation and would reflect the interests of all regional groups. Fully aware of the difficulty of reaching consensus on that issue, I call upon all Members of the United Nations to make every effort to adopt a definitive decision to that end. The Republic of Moldova also supports the idea of restoring the role of the General Assembly as the 10 most important, representative and deliberative body of the United Nations. Along the same lines, I think there is a need to consolidate further the capacity of the Economic and Social Council as the coordinator of United Nations funds and programmes. I am sure that the further development of United Nations institutions and structures will be the best proof of the viability of the principles of the Organization, its growing prestige and its leading role in the world. I express the hope that the United Nations will know how to place itself at the vanguard of current positive developments. I am firmly convinced that the proceedings of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly will take place in a spirit of sincere cooperation and solidarity, so that the representatives of all States will make sustained efforts to achieve the noble goals of peace, stability and prosperity.﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of this General Assembly. The role of the President in providing overall leadership to the Assembly is crucial and I am confident he will guide us wisely through the complex tasks ahead of us. A month from now, a group of young people will gather at the University of Iceland to take part in a model United Nations conference. It is good to see such enthusiasm for the ideals of the United Nations among young people — as well as a desire to experiment with how the United Nations machinery works in practice. But I wonder whether their model will accurately reflect how our United Nations works. I am concerned that, if it does, will it increase or dampen their enthusiasm? If they were to model the General Assembly, I suspect that their model would contrast in a number of ways with the real thing. Their agenda would be more concise. They would concentrate on pure and more immediate issues of urgency. They would have little time for often-repeated resolutions whose relevance is chiefly historical. They would not allow such items to crowd out more immediate matters. They would address the world as it is, not the world of yesteryear. To be honest, I am worried that the more accurately their United Nations model reflected the real thing, be it the General Assembly or the Security Council, the more difficult it would be to explain to those young idealists our purpose and convince them of our effectiveness. As already stated by my Danish colleague, on behalf of the Nordic countries, I would very much like to welcome the proposal of the Secretary-General to establish a high-level panel of eminent personalities to make recommendations on issues ranging from peace and security to reform of United Nations structures. The General Assembly has tremendous achievements to its credit. It is, as we affirmed in our Millennium Declaration, the chief deliberative policy-making and representative organ of the United Nations. The achievements of the General Assembly in international norm-setting and in the establishment of an international legal framework is undisputed. Its potential is great but, as the young people at our United Nations model would bluntly point out, it needs fixing. If we believe the General Assembly is where deliberation should be carried out, let us ensure that the agenda and procedures allow debate and deliberation to take place in an interactive manner. If we believe that it is the chief policy-making body, let us ensure that it develops policy, perhaps by linking debate more closely with the decision-making process. Policy needs to be followed-up; we need to do more on implementation. My delegation will contribute actively and constructively in the forthcoming deliberations on reforms of the General Assembly during this session. Our young people at the United Nations model next month will in fact be modelling the Security Council. I suspect that they will raise some questions about the composition of that body. Iceland is seriously 27 concerned with the slow progress in the open-ended working group. Though it provides, for the time being, the appropriate forum for continued dialogue, Iceland would welcome any additional initiatives to further intensify the process towards satisfactory resolution of this important matter. The Icelandic position on the reform of the Security Council is on record. It is essential that the membership of the Council better reflect the membership of the United Nations as a whole. At the same time, the efficiency of the Council must be preserved. Further steps should be taken to increase transparency in the decision-making process, in order to build on the welcome steps already taken by the Council. Iceland supports an increase in both permanent and non-permanent seats at the Council. New permanent members should have the same rights and obligations as the current permanent members. The veto right should be restricted and an obligation to state the reason for its use should be established, including why a permanent member considers a matter to be of vital importance. Iceland has, for the first time, put forward its candidacy for membership of the Security Council for the years 2009 and 2010. We see participation in the Security Council as a logical expression of our determination to fulfil our responsibilities within the United Nations and contribute as an active member of the international community. The promotion and protection of human rights must be a central concern of all United Nations activities. In this regard, much more needs to be done to implement our commitment regarding the rights of women and the rights of the child. Iceland has signed the United Nations Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons and has enacted legislation against trafficking in human beings. Iceland is working against the trafficking of women through a common campaign with the other Nordic countries and the Baltic States. The Icelandic campaign will focus on informing and increasing awareness among the public about this issue. We should be especially aware of the implications for human rights of new threats and new policies. In particular, we must ensure that fundamental human rights are not violated in our counter-terrorist effort, as has been underlined by the Secretary-General. In Iraq, the United Nations itself has recently been the target of two terrorist attacks. I would like to use this opportunity to express the most sincere condolences on behalf of the Icelandic Government to the United Nations and the families of the United Nations officials who lost their lives. I would also like to wish those who were wounded full recovery. The United Nations and the Security Council in particular must address the issue of Iraq. Iceland, along with many other Member States, is contributing to Iraq’s reconstruction and will continue to do so. The situation will demand all our resourcefulness and a concerted effort at cooperation by all parties in the Security Council to ensure that the people of Iraq are assured the destiny they deserve. This destiny should encompass peace and democracy, affording equal rights and justice to all Iraqi citizens. On terrorists, renewed efforts must be made to reach an agreement on a universal definition during this General Assembly. Such a definition would make the fight against terrorists more effective. It is estimated that close to 90 per cent of victims in today’s armed conflicts are civilians, the majority of whom are women and children. Women and girls experience conflicts differently than men because of their status in society. Their rights must be protected in situations of armed conflict and we must ensure that women play a central role in conflict prevention, peacekeeping and peace-building. United Nations Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) lays the ground rules for this to happen and must be implemented in all of its aspects. It is our role to ensure that globalization benefits all countries, not least through targeted development cooperation. Sub-Saharan Africa will continue to be the focus of our bilateral development cooperation while we will also increase our contribution and involvement in multilateral development cooperation, especially through the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Development Fund for Women and the World Food Programme. I just returned, like many others, from Cancún, where we had difficult discussions on correcting the trade rules so that developing countries can operate on a more level playing field in world trade. This work is vital and we must push on with it. With determination we can break through the impasse that we reached in Cancún. 28 Iceland is one of the many island States in the world whose well-being and development is crucially affected by the state of the marine environment. Sustainable harvesting of living marine resources is the mainstay of our economy. Resolution 57/141, on Oceans and the Law of the Sea, which was adopted during our last session, provides for the establishment of a regular process for the global reporting and assessment of the state of the marine environment, commonly referred to as Global Marine Assessment, a concept that was initiated by Iceland in 1999. An intergovernmental meeting should be convened in 2004 to decide upon the modalities of this process and negotiate an agreement between United Nations agencies. It is our sincere hope that such a meeting could turn out to be fruitful in the process of the establishment of the Global Marine Assessment. We must craft for ourselves a United Nations which is task-oriented, representative, focused and coordinated. I believe strongly that the United Nations should not only be a place where we can talk about what we want to do, it must also be the place and instrument to get things done. We have taken note of the Secretary-General’s call for changes in our institution by 2005. There are varying opinions on how the United Nations should operate, but I believe there is a general recognition that the United Nations is, and must remain, the key forum in which we exercise our collective responsibility. At the Millennium Summit, heads of State and Government reaffirmed their faith in the Organization and its Charter as indispensable foundations of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. They defined our priorities for this century and resolved to make the United Nations a more effective instrument for pursuing all of these priorities. It is up to us, the Member States, to make it possible for the United Nations to realize these objectives. ﻿Your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, Sir, is a source of great pride and considerable satisfaction to Jamaica and the entire Caribbean. We regard it as a tangible acknowledgement of the region’s active engagement on the global stage. I am confident that your combination of long political experience, outstanding diplomatic skills and commitment to global comity will enable all of us to benefit from your guiding hand at a time when the United Nations, the very cornerstone of global security and economic cooperation, faces its most severe test and the Charter itself is exposed to its greatest challenge. We also wish to commend the Secretary-General for his work during a very difficult year and in trying circumstances for the United Nations. It may eventually prove to be a fortunate quirk of history that, by virtue of the rotation system, a distinguished representative of the Caribbean now occupies the presidency. For, by virtue of our history, location and size, we who fashioned the Caribbean Community thirty years ago recognized that we would never be able to acquire the economic power or military might to stand alone. Multilateralism, therefore, affords us our only source of protection. Therefore, from its inception, our Community has remained resolute in upholding the sovereign equality of States and the maintenance of an international order that protects the weak and powerless from domination. The international situation today is filled with uncertainty and fear. There is a prevailing climate of distrust and insecurity. Humankind faces the dangers of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and weapons of mass destruction. We witness outbreaks of war and violence and a worrying escalation of confrontation and conflict. There are new doctrines and policies that threaten peace everywhere. The pillars of international law and respect for sovereign rights are being steadily eroded. Injustice and abuses of human rights still remain manifest. These are real concerns that underscore the need to strengthen 2 multilateralism, to restore confidence in the United Nations system, to buttress its centrality in decisions that affect us all and to thereby enhance its capacity to enforce. The multilateral process will collapse unless the international community asserts a strong collective will to review the structures, mandates and procedures in our global system. In relation to efforts to strengthen multilateralism, I wish to emphasize four requirements: First, multilateralism must be equitable. This is critical for its credibility. It should promote policies that provide full opportunity for all States to benefit from the global system and that take into account the needs, aspirations and welfare of the entire global community. It should be non-discriminatory and proceed from the principle that the lives of human beings cannot be differentiated on the basis of race, nationality or religion. Secondly, multilateralism must be democratic. This is critical for its acceptability. Its decision-making should be based on a fully inclusive process, in which all States have a voice and where dialogue and equal participation are encouraged and promoted. Thirdly, multilateralism must be principled. This is critical for its legitimacy. It must be based on common rules and standards devised and enforced by the international community, standards without selective application or double standards. Fourthly, multilateralism must be effective. This is critical for its efficiency. Decisions, once taken, should be implemented. Member States must exercise the political will to guarantee that policies and decisions that are agreed upon and taken are supported and upheld. Adequate resources must also be provided where necessary. In order to promote the interests of all States, the United Nations and multilateral institutions must facilitate the creation of new opportunities for economic development, through the expansion of trade and investment flows and through technical cooperation assistance. In order to strengthen multilateralism, we need reform and rebuilding to improve the work of the United Nations in areas such as development cooperation, humanitarian affairs and disarmament. No one, not even the five permanent members, dares to dispute the compelling urgency of altering the design and function of the Security Council if it is to fulfil, in the realities of the world today, the mandate conferred by the Charter of 1945. The case for expansion of membership is irrefutable, as is the need to redesign decision-making to correspond with the principle of the sovereign equality of States. Let me make it clear: reform must extend beyond composition and geographical balance. The Security Council, as presently constituted, makes no pretence at representing democracy in the global system. This must be changed if we are to not fall into a dangerous abyss, and it must be changed in a way that deters arrogant deviation from the most basic elements of the rule of international law. We have been talking for long enough; the time has come to cut the talk and walk the walk. In 2001, from this podium, I called for a United Nations renaissance. Unless we undertake it now, only those who believe in a resurrection will still be present. None of us will then be able pretend that we are not responsible for the demise of the Organization, nor will we be able to exonerate ourselves from the condemnation of history. With regard to the General Assembly, what is needed is a resuscitation in the use of its powers and assertion of its role as the principal organ of the United Nations. This Assembly is a forum of equals. Its pronouncements and policy decisions must carry the stamp of legitimacy as it is the voice of the international community. But while we emphasize the importance of institutional reform, there should be equal focus on the responsibilities of membership. There is need for a revitalization in the commitment and political will of Member States to support the multilateral system and provide it with adequate resources. Irrespective of the institutional arrangements we may devise, it is, in the final analysis, the Member States alone who can make the system work. We cannot afford to fail. The critical problems facing us concerning war and peace are compounded by the proliferation of weapons of all kinds. Globally, military expenditures now amount to over 800 billion dollars annually. Experience has shown, however, that military power and massive investment in weapons do not bring security and lasting peace. The force of arms cannot 3 impose a lasting peace. Instead, it breeds a climate of insecurity and feeds violence, war and terrorism with increasingly destructive capacity. At the same time, the arms industry fuels a rapidly growing underworld of trans-national organized crime, which jeopardizes law and order and impedes economic growth and social stability within our national boundaries. It is tragic and painful to witness the continued cycle of violence and carnage and the massive destruction of property in the Middle East. No solution can result from the continued military subjugation of the Palestinians or from violence against the Israelis. A political settlement has to be found to provide security for the Israeli people, to establish an independent State for the Palestinians and to make suitable arrangements for the security of all States in the region. We cannot begin to speak about the situation in Iraq without noting the atmosphere of fear, disorder and insecurity which now prevails in that country. We deplore the recent bombings of the Jordanian Embassy in Baghdad and the United Nations office, which resulted in the deaths of United Nations officials, including that of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in Iraq, and the bombing of the Shi’ite mosque. We must all learn from what has happened in Iraq over the past year. The immediate question is how to formulate interim arrangements for the recovery and reconstruction of that country and the restoration of its sovereignty and independence, under a Government chosen by the Iraqi people. Efforts to re-engage the United Nations must ensure that it assumes a meaningful role in the peace-building process and the transition to democracy. The situation in Africa has not been given the level of attention that is needed, particularly by the Security Council. The continued turmoil within parts of the continent shows the need for stabilization through conciliation and dialogue between contending parties to end further fighting and bloodshed. We commend the role being played by regional organizations like the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and by African statesmen to mediate and bring peace to those areas of current concern. But more should be done. Additional resources are needed to assist to ensure that societies disrupted by conflict can be re- established and stabilized. The obstacles to eliminating poverty and disease can be overcome by providing material assistance, and we are convinced that Africa has the indigenous resources, the human potential and the leadership to prevail over adversity. Within the global economy, the pattern continues of a widening gap between developed and developing countries. Wealth is increasing but poverty is also growing in critical areas of the world. Although we continue to raise our voices to warn of the dangers of this global trend, our partners in the developed world have given little indication of a change in policies that might reverse it. We are continually told that prosperity will come with policies of liberalization, a minimalist State and deregulation. In turn, these policies will unleash free enterprise to take advantage of economic opportunities that will lead to development and growth. But it has become painfully obvious that this model does not succeed everywhere, particularly in the developing world. As you know so well, Sir, the countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) have for a long time been a region where democracy flourishes and the rule of law prevails. The strengthening of civil and political rights in our countries has been our passion since we gained our freedom. We know that no country is above improvement in any of these areas, but there is a fashion in the industrial world — including countries that are new converts to these values — to imply that their adoption is the solution to all the problems of development. Were that so, Jamaica and all our countries of the Caribbean would have been havens of prosperity long ago. What much of the developing world needs goes beyond sermons about the precepts of democracy, about obeying the rule of law and securing respect for human rights. The help we need is help in preserving those rights from erosion by the instabilities that derive from underdevelopment and from the steady deterioration in the global political environment. In the international community, those same values are being systematically discarded and destroyed, as if our world society deserves less than our national communities. The persistence of underdevelopment — the denial of people’s full rights as human beings — is 4 the major challenge that poor countries face. We make this clear, because it has become all too easy for rich countries to excuse themselves from any meaningful effort towards poverty alleviation and economic development by asserting that salvation lies simply in securing civil and political rights. This is exactly what they did at Cancun to the poorest countries in the world — to those who live in abject poverty — by denying their plaintive petition for a better deal in cotton. As the current Chairman of the Caribbean Community, I assert that for us in the Caribbean, the future of our democracies lies in the strengthening of our economies, in a more favourable trading environment for our products, in more rapid and effective debt relief, in the protection of legitimate areas of economic progress like our financial services industry and in tailoring globalization and the dogma of liberalization to the needs of small economies. Our future lies, in short, in escaping the trap of poverty. That some are poorer does not make us less poor than we are; that some are less developed than we are does not alter our state of underdevelopment. Trade and competitiveness are not everything. In developing countries there are weaknesses in production capacity and deficiencies at the micro level that can be helped through programmes of development cooperation. Regrettably, in recent years, donor resources for such cooperation have been shrinking. Where commitments have been given, there have just been too many promises broken. But we still remain hopeful that the pledges of Monterrey and the targets of Johannesburg will be taken seriously as commitments to be implemented. Partnership should not be used as a vehicle for the imposition of conditionalities to promote bilateral political objectives. In our view, true partnership must respect the concept of ownership by recipients and the national priorities as determined by them. Decisions affecting development are being taken in different areas, in different forums and by different agencies. Increasingly, there is the need to ensure coherence in policies and programmes. The international system currently does not have an effective mechanism for conducting such an exercise. We reiterate our belief that one of the urgent tasks of the moment is to create a mechanism within the international architecture, which will focus on trade, finance, technology and development policy in an integrated manner. We want to draw attention to the Barbados Programme of Action, which deals with the vulnerability of small island developing States (SIDS). We call on the donor community to support the review of international economic arrangements, when the international conference meets in 2004 to review the Barbados Programme of Action. We in Jamaica fully recognize that globalization has the potential to advance human development throughout the world. But this is not automatic. For globalization has also increased our vulnerability, insecurity and the possibility of marginalization. Small countries like Jamaica and groups like CARICOM cannot and should not be expected to follow the same policy prescriptions applied to larger, more advanced countries. Special and differential treatment of a meaningful kind is important, as we require policy space for our productive sectors. It cannot be expected that countries such as ours will abandon local production in agriculture and manufacturing, although we fully recognize the growing importance and potential of the service sector in both the regional and global economies. In the aftermath of Cancun, we in the global community need to accept that trade rules must be asymmetrical in recognition of the diversity in levels of development and the size of economies. Trade rules must also recognize the right of all countries to protect their development priorities and vulnerable groups, especially their small farmers. Development issues as they relate to the World Trade Organization (WTO) agenda must be defined by developing countries themselves and not by others for us. The world community must recognize these principles to ensure that the global trade architecture can bring meaningful benefits for all. Globalization may bring a more integrated world, but there will always remain significant variations in national systems, cultures and national priorities. There is no single sustainable model for political development or economic success everywhere. We live in a diverse world where different ideas, cultural norms and standards exist. These should all be respected in the framework of agreed principles within the United Nations. In a world of such diversity and pluralism, there should be tolerance, understanding, non- 5 discrimination, self-determination, respect for equal rights and justice for all. Those, for us, are transcendental values to which we in Jamaica and throughout the Caribbean will always fully subscribe. The United Nations should continue to promote respect for diversity while promoting the common principles and ideals that form the foundations of international law and order and international cooperation. This provides the only key for the pursuit of enduring peace, harmony and real development in the global village to which we all belong.  ﻿During the past two years, the attacks of 11 September 2001 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as in Africa, have brought turmoil to the world. The United Nations has never been more necessary, yet perhaps never has its efficacy been so questioned nor, until the bombings last month in Baghdad, have its people been the object of such massive direct attack. In the Principality of Andorra, encircled by the high mountains of the Pyrenees, we have lived peacefully and democratically between our neighbours for over 700 years. Since 1419, our Parliament has met to debate the problems of our people. It was not only our small size and isolation that kept us apart from the wars that ravaged Europe; rather, our desire for independence, the unity of our people, and also our ability to get along with our powerful neighbours made Andorra one of the oldest democratic States in the world. In the past half-century, since the founding of the United Nations, the world has changed, and Andorra with it. Less than a century ago it was only possible to reach Andorra by horse. Now roads bring us 12 million tourists each year. Telephones, computers, satellites and airplanes bring the world to Andorra and we in turn have reached out to the world. In the time of my grandparents, Andorrans never travelled far from their mountains. Now we are world travellers. One of the proud moments in the long history of our country was the day in 1993 — ten years ago — when we became a Member State of the United Nations. We joined with great hopes and all these years we have believed in its crucial role, despite the crises that may have cooled that belief. The terrorist attack on the United States of America marked the beginning of a very complex stage in relations among nations and of a difficult equilibrium among different areas of our planet. The invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq were both set in motion by this attack; one had the support of the United Nations while the other did not. While there is no point in returning to that debate, two questions must be addressed. First, can the United Nations effectively respond to threats to world stability? Secondly, to what degree will its Member States be willing to work within the framework of the United Nations? Perhaps a cooling of passions will enable us to address these difficult issues clearly. We are all too aware of the difficulties and dangers that beset both the citizens of these countries and the troops of Member States who are working to bring stability to these places. We hope for a rapid solution to the myriad difficulties involved in ending the series of sad and painful events that have taken place within these countries over the past few years. The United Nations has a critical responsibility in fostering a constructive outcome for the Afghan and Iraqi people and also in resolving tension throughout the Middle East. In this regard I wish to express our confidence in the United Nations to bring an end to this complex and cruel conflict, a crucial step for the stability of the region and an important matter for the future of mankind. The United Nations will know how to find new ways and adequate solutions and will play a leading role in the establishment of new paths. As politicians, we pride ourselves on our knowledge of the needs of our citizens. We are students at the university of the national will. The most successful among us have cultivated a keen sense of the everyday desires, frustrations, and goals that are important to our citizens. If we live in a democratic State, and ignore those needs, the voters will quickly look for others who do not. The United Nations is a different kind of university. Here the lessons of national self-interest must give way to an international understanding. In this university of the world, our previous studies, by which I mean our own political careers, can only help us in the short term. But what we study together here are long-term lessons that can ensure the long-term survival of the world we share. Although Andorra is small in scale, like many partners in the United Nations, what we smaller nations have to contribute is larger than our proportionate geographic scale or the relative size of our population. Indeed, our small size has made us by necessity careful observers of the needs of others and our centuries of independence have taught us responsibility to our citizens and our neighbours. We have never forgotten the bonds that link us to the world. Our history has taught us this. Legend has it that Andorra was founded by Charlemagne, who, let us recall, was one of the key 18 historical players in the battles between Islam and Christianity. In the thirteenth century, however, it was the religious tension between the Count of Foix, who was a Cathar sympathizer, and the Catholic bishop of Urgell that led to a balanced agreement resulting in the independence of Andorra. Andorra came into existence partly as a buffer State between two powerful lords and between two approaches to Christianity: the orthodox and the Cathar. The Cathars are only a distant memory now, but I raise this issue here because it points to the battleground of belief. Whereas the Church once summoned councils to struggle over the problems of heresy, we now gather at the United Nations not to insist on one form of belief, but to recognize and sustain the common ethical base that unites all beliefs, all ideologies, under the unshakeable canopy of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are now in the twenty-first century and not in the Middle Ages, but those who then were fundamentalist Christians and who resolved everything with anathemas, crusades and exiles have given place to those who practice other forms of religious intolerance of different persuasions. It is shameful to see that, even today, people are being killed or kill in the name of their God. The work that the United Nations accomplishes, therefore, does not simply pay lip service to diversity. We need to advance, in all moral seriousness, an ethic of diversity that goes beyond recognizing the value of tolerance and multiculturalism and strives to implement shared ethical values in the service of world understanding. In 1278, the strategic importance of Andorra lay in its proximity to the border between Catholic Europe and al-Andalus, Islamic Spain. The road that led to the great city of Cordoba — where the philosophy of Aristotle was retranslated from Greek and Arabic into Latin and re-entered the thought of the Christian West in the renaissance of the twelfth century — passed close by our country. In the centre of that city, the Muslim rulers built an astonishing mosque with a forest of columns, made all the more beautiful by the presence within it of a synagogue. Such was its beauty that it was not destroyed when the Christians captured the city, but converted into a Cathedral, just as the great basilicas of Constantinople became the great mosques of Istanbul when that city fell to the Ottoman empire a century later. What if we could learn from the events that have marked history, making use of the lessons of peaceful coexistence, avoiding past mistakes and appreciating the moments of openness between cultures in previous centuries? We live in a world of vast contrasts where technological progress, used dangerously or simply without precaution, has made life more perilous on a global scale. Where once the great plague took years to make its way across Europe, modern plagues — be they biological viruses or computer viruses — travel across the globe in a matter of hours. Pollution and global warming concern us all. The strange climactic shifts of recent years, the pollution of our great oceans and lakes, threaten our environment. Perhaps most dangerously, nuclear weapons threaten the life of everyone on the planet. All of these calamities, present or looming, demand international cooperation if we are to survive. It is most sad that some of those who could do most to prevent the degradation of life on Earth continue to look in another direction — at the balance sheets of the big companies that contaminate the Earth most egregiously — and continue to apply an energy policy based on the uncontrolled exploitation and low cost of limited resources. We have become a little world. We have become like a small country, rather like Andorra, where everybody knows everybody else’s business. As we become smaller, the need to combat poverty and suffering has become all the more important. We cannot forget that images from more fortunate countries are beamed into the lives of people existing in difficult or even life-threatening circumstances across the world. No matter that these images may be propaganda and distortions of the truth — our modern technology, the source of so many comforts and advantages, is also demonstrating the full scale of our differences. We must learn to treat all members of the world as we would like to see our own citizens treated. We need to insist on a decent life for everyone, for all mankind. 19 Andorra is committed to aiding development around the world. Since 1995, we have regularly increased our budgetary contributions and hope to devote 0.7 per cent of our budget to third-world aid within two years. Our philosophy of development supports the institutions of the United Nations, looking to small-scale solutions that foster self-reliance and local initiative. We are particularly enthusiastic about projects aimed at children, education and those who help women to establish their own businesses. We are also committed to encouraging sustainable farming because we recognize that proper farming practices provide the best defence against catastrophic crop failures. To that end, Andorra also proposes within the next year to become a member of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. The insignificant part of the Andorran budget devoted to the purchase of weapons resulted in the composer and singer Pete Seeger dedicating a song to us in the 1960s. His verses still echo today, just as they did when he made a whole generation sing “We shall overcome. We shall live in peace”. Many things have happened since those days and Andorra no longer allocates so much as $4.50 towards its defence budget. We do not spend a penny. In this diverse and contradictory world, with all that is squandered on new weapons and old, the whole of mankind could live decently. We could eliminate all diseases. Education and culture would be made available to all. Thus, we could end fanaticism and all those who abuse the ignorance of the people would end up without victims or lackeys. Let us try and make some use of these long debates and speeches which we applaud with diplomatic courtesy, often without even hearing them. Too much is at stake for all of us. ﻿Last century bore witness to two terrible world wars, in which over 80 million human beings perished. It later seemed that, due to the lessons learned, the United Nations Organization was born so that war would never again occur. The Charter, adopted in San Francisco nearly 60 years ago, proclaimed the purpose of saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war'. However, after that we suffered wars of aggression and conquest, colonial wars, border wars and ethnic wars. Many peoples were left with no other choice but war to defend their rights. Moreover, in the last 13 years the scourge of war has taken another 6 million lives. Sixty years ago, the world order proclaimed in the United Nations Charter was sustained through the military balance of two super-Powers. A bipolar world was born, which generated clashes, divisions, the cold war and almost a devastating nuclear war. It was not the ideal world, far from it. But since one of those super-Powers has disappeared, the current world is worse and more dangerous. Now world order cannot be held together in the spheres of influence of two similar super-Powers or by mutual deterrence. What should it be founded on, then? On the honest and generous recognition by the only super-Power that, far from disturbing it, should contribute to the creation of a peaceful world, with the right to justice and development for all. Does the war in Iraq contribute to that objective? No, it does not. Its outcome is just the opposite of the ideal of preserving peace, strengthening the role of the United Nations and enhancing multilateralism and international cooperation. Unfortunately, the truth is that those most able to prevent and remove threats to peace are the ones causing war today. Should the Government of the United States recognize this truth that almost everyone in this Hall shares? Yes. What humiliation or harm would there be to the prestige of this great nation? None. The world would recognize that a remedy benefiting all had come about, after the unleashing of a war supported by just a few, either by shortsightedness or by meanness of interests; after it was proven that the pretexts brandished were not true; and after observing the reaction of a people who, as every invaded and occupied people will do, have begun to fight and will continue to fight for respect for their right to self-determination. 23 Therefore, must the occupation in Iraq cease? Yes, and the sooner the better. It is a source of new and more serious problems, not of solutions. Must the Iraqis be left alone to freely establish their own Government and institutions and make decisions on their natural resources? Yes. It is their right, and they will not stop fighting for it. Must the Security Council be pressured into adopting decisions that would further undermine it ethically and morally? No. That would eliminate the last possibility to profoundly reform, expand and democratize the Council. The future of the United Nations will be determined today in the outcome of the international crisis generated by the war in Iraq. The most critical danger stalking us today is the persistence of a world where what prevails is the law of the jungle, the might of the most powerful, the privileges and extravagance of a handful of countries, and the dangers of aggression, underdevelopment and hopelessness for the vast majority. Will a worldwide dictatorship be imposed on our peoples, or will the United Nations and multilateralism be preserved? That is the question. We all agree, I believe, that the role of the United Nations is irrelevant today, or at least is on its way to being so. But some of us say so with concern and would like to strengthen the Organization. Others say so with covert satisfaction and encourage the hope of imposing their designs on the world. We must speak frankly. What role does the General Assembly play today? In truth, almost none. It is merely a debating forum without any true influence or practical role whatsoever. Are international relations governed by the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter? No. Why now, when philosophy, the arts and science are reaching unprecedented levels, is the superiority of some peoples over others once again proclaimed? And why are other peoples, who should be treated as brothers and sisters, referred to as living in the dark corners of the planet or on the Euro-Atlantic periphery of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization? Why do some among us feel entitled to launch a unilateral war, given the fact that in the Charter we proclaimed that military force would only be used to serve the common interest and that collective measures should be taken to preserve peace? Why is there no longer any talk about using peaceful means to settle disputes? Can we believe that everyone is fostering friendship among our nations on the basis of respect for the principle of equality of rights and the self-determination of peoples? Why then has my people had to suffer, and continue to suffer, from over four decades of aggression and economic blockade? The principle of the sovereign equality for all States was established when the Charter was adopted. Are we in fact equal? Do all Member States enjoy similar rights? According to the Charter we do, but according to stark reality we do not. Respect for the principle of the sovereign equality of States, which should be the cornerstone of contemporary international relations, will only be established if the most powerful countries accept in real terms that they must respect the rights of others, even if those other countries lack the military might and the economic power to defend those rights. Are the mightiest and most developed countries ready to respect the rights of others, even if doing so might perhaps slightly restrain the privileges they enjoy? I am afraid that they are not. Are the principles of the non-use or the threat of use force, non-interference in the internal affairs of States, the peaceful settlement of disputes, and respect for the territorial integrity and independence of States actually in force? According to the language and the spirit of the Charter, they are. But are they really? It is true that a handful of developed countries has benefited from the current situation over the last few decades. But that time is coming to an end. Those countries are also beginning to become victims of the imperial policies of a single super-Power. Should they not take into account, with modesty and common sense, the need to work with the over 130 Third World countries that have been compelled to endure this unjust order and that are ready to attempt to persuade the most powerful country to put aside its arrogance and to comply with its duties as a founder of the United Nations? Cuba believes that we should not, and cannot, relinquish multilateralism; that we should not, and cannot, relinquish the United Nations; and that we cannot, and should not, relinquish the struggle for a world of peace, justice, equality and development for all. Cuba therefore believes that we must achieve three immediate objectives. First and foremost, we must put an end to the occupation of Iraq, hand over real control to the United Nations immediately and begin the recovery process to re-establish Iraq's sovereignty and put in place a 24 legitimate Government decided upon by the Iraqi people. In addition, the scandalous distribution of Iraq's wealth must cease immediately. That will be beneficial for the United States, whose young people are dying in Iraq while waging an unjust and inglorious war. It will be beneficial for Iraq, whose people will be able to turn over a new page in their history. It will be beneficial for the United Nations, which has also been a victim of that war. And it will be beneficial for all of our countries, which have had to suffer international economic recession and an increase insecurity that is threatening us all. Secondly, we must address without delay the issue of truly reforming the United Nations and, above all, undertake a far-reaching democratization process. The current situation is already untenable, as evidenced, first of all, by the Security Council's shameful inability to prevent the war in Iraq and, secondly, by its demand on the Government of Israel to refrain from expelling or murdering the leader of the Palestinian people a people who, in accordance with a decision the Council itself took over five decades ago, should long ago have had an independent State. That the Government of the United States has exercised its veto power on 26 occasions to protect the crimes of Israel is evidence of the fact that that unjust privilege must be abolished. What is needed is a reform that goes back to the roots of the founding of the United Nations; that guarantees effective respect for the Charter; and that re-establishes the mechanisms of collective security and the rule of international law. Reform should also ensure the ability of the United Nations to preserve peace and to lead the fight for general and complete disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, to which many generations have aspired. Reform should also restore to the United Nations its prerogatives to fight for the socio-economic development and the basic rights of all the planet's inhabitants, including the rights to food and life. Doing so is more necessary than ever before, given that neo-liberalism has spectacularly failed and that a new opportunity now exists for establishing a new system of international economic relations. We need to rescue the role of the United Nations and to ensure that all States, large and small, respect the Charter. But we do not need a reform that is going to founder unceremoniously as part of a bureaucratic process of adapting what is left of the United Nations to the interests and whims of a few, rich and mighty countries. Finally, we need to return to a discussion of the serious economic and social problems currently affecting the world. We have to make the battle for the right of nearly five billion people to development a priority. The Millennium Assembly committed us to working for very modest and insufficient goals. But everything has now been forgotten, without even a discussion. Seventeen million children under the age of 5 will die this year, not as victims of terrorism but as victims of under-nourishment and preventable diseases. Will a realistic debate based on solidarity be held in this Hall to discuss how, in line with the Millennium Declaration, to halve by 2015 the number of people, currently over 1.2 billion in number, who are suffering from abject poverty, as well as the number who suffer from hunger, which is more than 800 million? Will there be any discussion about the nearly 900 million illiterate adults? Or will the Millennium Declaration also become a dead letter, as has been the case with the Kyoto Protocol and the decisions of 10 summits held at the level of head of State? Developed countries will provide Third World countries with $53 billion in official development assistance this year. In return, those countries will charge recipients over $350 billion in foreign debt interest; and our foreign debt will have grown by the end of the year. Do creditors by any chance believe that that unjust situation will last forever? Should we, as debtors, resign ourselves to being poor forever? Is that picture of injustice and peril confronted by most countries what the founders of the United Nations really dreamed of? No. Like us, the founders also dreamed that a better world was possible. Those are the questions that, with all due respect, we would like some in the Hall to answer for us. I am not talking about Cuba, which, condemned to die for wanting to be free, has had to fight on its own, not only thinking about itself but also about all the peoples of the world.  ﻿On behalf of the Philippine delegation I would like to extend warmest congratulations to the President and the members of the Bureau on his election to the leadership of the fifty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. The past twelve months have been a most difficult and challenging period for the United Nations. A community of cynicism has formed regarding the ability of the United Nations to rise above the morass of disunity and disruptive competition among major Powers to fulfil its catalytic role in promoting international peace and security and development. But, while it is undeniable that the United Nations has struggled over the past twelve months, its predicted decline is greatly exaggerated. Economic linkages among nations have widened and deepened in many sectors. The interconnectedness of the global village continues to infringe upon traditional political boundaries. For instance, the tentacles of international terrorism have spread insidiously all over. These and current developments have displayed that without the centripetal pull provided by international cooperation and partnership through the United Nations, the world would tend to drift apart. The rich would become richer and the poor poorer. Conflict and disharmony would erupt along political, ethnic and even religious fissures. We face the paradox of a world contracting through advancing technology and, at the same time, drifting apart along the seams of inequality. Three years ago, 146 heads of State and Government and 189 Member States blazed the trail to the future by crafting the Millennium Declaration. In the three years since the millennium started, in the three years since the Millennium Summit, much has been done, though much remains to be accomplished to achieve the goals that the United Nations set for the twenty-first century. I am pleased to report that the vision of the Millennium Summit and pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals in my country have begun to bear fruit, as they have been applied in our peace process for the southern Philippines, in Mindanao. The Philippine Government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), the Muslim separatist group in the southern Philippines, realize that the prescription of the United Nations is the only correct and viable one: that peace is an indispensable condition for 9 economic development, just as development is an essential component of peace. Nothing will do more to lift the Philippines out of poverty than peace itself. That is why we are negotiating peace with the MILF. The Government of Malaysia has been a prime mover in helping us negotiate peace, and I thank them. To complement these efforts, the Philippines has launched its bid for observer status in the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). I will be attending the OIC conference next month in Malaysia and hope to use that time to advance the peace process in Mindanao and advance understanding among all faiths. I wish to take this opportunity to thank the United Nations community for its support for the Philippines as a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the term 2004-2005, and to ask for your continued support during the elections to the Council. We wish to contribute our long experience in the United Nations system, as an original founding Member of the Organization. We have actively participated in the Council's initiatives towards the preservation of global peace and security throughout the past six decades, both as a past non-permanent member and as a contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations and other Council activities. The Philippines has actively contributed military and police personnel to United Nations peacekeeping operations in Africa, Asia, the Americas, the Middle East and Europe over the past half-century. We are now preparing to contribute a contingent to join the latest United Nations operation, the deployment to Liberia next month. Our guiding principles for our Council participation include the following. The principle of collective security established under the Charter should be observed. The Security Council should maintain and pursue a multilateral approach towards the performance of its primary role of maintaining international peace and security. Observance of the rule of law is of paramount importance in the maintenance of international peace and security. I believe that there is a strong role for the United Nations to play in Iraq and welcome and encourage United Nations involvement to share the burden with other nations, like the Philippines, that are already participating in the reconstruction of Iraq. It is heartening that we adopted an important resolution on conflict prevention at the last session of the General Assembly. As long as conflicts occur, there is a need to strengthen our capacities for peacekeeping, peacemaking, and peace-building. International security, which in recent experience is mostly threatened by imploding and failed States, must be animated by the need to protect individuals and communities from violence. It has also been amply demonstrated that democracy is the condition most conducive to a flourishing rule of law. Erecting mechanisms and infrastructure for the rule of law should be included as a key part of any exit strategy of United Nations peace operations. It is our view that the Security Council should provide the leadership in moving the United Nations to a stronger commitment to the rule of law in areas where the United Nations is conducting peace operations. Meanwhile, the challenges posed by the global threat of terrorism are being effectively addressed through growing international coordination and cooperation, particularly in the exchange of information, best practices and lessons learned. We are actively assisting the work of the Security Council's Counter-Terrorism Committee in fighting the spectre of global terrorism, and we are in the process of ratifying the important international conventions on terrorism. At the same time, I am working with other heads of State to ensure continued cooperation in our battle to rid South-East Asia of the threat of terrorism. What is required of us today is to link up once more with the vision that our leaders charted at the Millennium Summit and other recent international conferences, and we should do this under the banner of the United Nations. The United Nations was created 58 years ago to serve as the multilateral forum of the international community to join hands in confronting challenges. It is sobering to remember that no country, big or small, rich or poor, can feel safe or think that it can remain unaffected by violent conflicts, environmental degradation and human suffering. The United Nations must continue to adapt to changing conditions to fulfil its envisioned role, and we support the call of the Secretary-General for reforms in the structure of the United Nations. 10 The United Nations is a sui generis global institution that can play a catalytic role to confront all these challenges now and in the future. Therefore, it behoves every Member of this Organization to make the United Nations increasingly relevant and to invigorate it to become a modern, nimble and determined agent for change, which benefits mankind's condition. We should instil the concept of strength and greatness, not in terms of the ability to achieve or maintain dominance over others, but in terms of the ability of nations to work with others in the interest of the international community as a whole. We favour the strength of consensus in which the future of world peace, security and prosperity lie. ﻿I am honoured to address you for the first time on behalf of the State Union of 5 Serbia and Montenegro. The State Union of Serbia and Montenegro was created in the interest of peace, stability, the democratic right to freedom of choice and moving quickly to a European track. We have assumed the responsibility for a policy of non-compromise in the Balkans. We have assumed the responsibility to demonstrate that in the region that used to be burdened with divisions and conflicts it is possible to work out an agreement that will push us forward together. We are certain that our lives can be better if all of us in the region commit to that goal, if all of us in the region look to the future and if all of us in the region look to Europe and other people who share the same goals. That is why we are sure that life can be better for all peoples. With this hope, we agree with all who perceive terrorism as one of the greatest evils facing the world today. We can defeat terrorism only if we all join forces. That is why, for us, there is no alternative to multilateralism, and the United Nations is the guarantor for that, both today and tomorrow. Terrorism is not a problem only for the rich countries, as the Secretary-General said yesterday. It is a problem for every man and every country, just as it is a problem for parents who lost their children just because they chose to swim in a river and belonged to a different religion and nationality. We deplore the deaths of those children, the same as we deplore the terrorist attack in Baghdad, which caused the death of innocent people, among them Sergio Vieira de Mello. We condemn these deaths as all humane, civilized and progressive people do. But that is not enough. We must strive to ensure that such things happen no more. The activities of the United Nations in Kosovo demonstrate that with good intentions on all sides there is hope for creating preconditions for dialogue, instead of hatred and conflicts, so that people discuss and resolve their problems instead of creating new ones. We are glad that one of the crucial issues for the stability of this region that of Kosovo is on the threshold of dialogue, as we have called for. We have been encouraged by the announcements of representatives of the United Nations that the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina could start by mid-October and that it has been supported within the contact group. I hope that it will also be supported in Pristina, as it is supported in Belgrade. In this undertaking as well, the role of the United Nations and its representative in Kosovo is extremely important. For its part, Serbia and Montenegro will do its utmost to ensure the success of the dialogue. This is an opportunity that we must take advantage of, in the interest of the European and democratic future of the region. We have to be patient and persistent. We are aware that we cannot change the past. But we can do a great deal to improve our present and future. We seek peace for all people left without their homes. There are more than 650,000 of them in Serbia and Montenegro, and we want them to live where they believe they belong. I am sure that within the framework of the tripartite agreement with Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina we shall soon find a common solution that will ultimately resolve that problem. From our own recent experience we know a lot about victims and suffering. That is why we call for an end to violence in all parts of the world in Baghdad and Iraq, and the Middle East. We are convinced that the international community and the United Nations, primarily the Security Council, will find a way to stabilization and to a life in peace and freedom for all people. The human race has only one world to live in. We in Serbia and Montenegro stand ready to contribute to peace efforts through peace operations, to protect peace and to defend each nation's right to a democratic future. Of course, we are primarily committed to the stabilization of the situation in the region of the Western Balkans, cooperation among the countries in the region, the fight against organized crime and full cooperation with the Hague Tribunal. No crime should be left unpunished, and all perpetrators should be brought to justice. Our goal is to join the process of European integration as soon as possible, as well as the Partnership for Peace. The Thessaloniki summit of the European Union and the countries of the Western Balkans defined clear goals. Serbia and Montenegro will not let go of this chance for a European future. We have a responsibility to create a better, more peaceful and dignified life for generations to come. That is an obligation not only for us in Serbia and That is a motive and force keeping us together in the United Nations to do all we can so that good may prevail over evil, peace over conflicts, democracy over dictatorship and economic prosperity over poverty. We can do it together. This is not a utopia; it is a realistic 6 possibility which will be successful to the extent we are able to work together. Serbia and Montenegro trusts it can be done.  ﻿I bring a message of peace from Bangladesh. Please allow me to congratulate the President on his election. I wish him every success in the formidable task of leading the United Nations to continued relevance and credibility in these stormy times. I am confident that he will build upon the legacy left by his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan. We commend the Secretary-General for his stewardship in these difficult times. The United Nations has been faced with extremely challenging situations over the past year. We have lost one of our most outstanding men of peace — Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and many of his colleagues. Such senseless and despicable acts must not be repeated. The new millennium, which we all heralded with so much hope, has been plunged into turmoil. Intervening events in the last three years have changed our world forever. They have left us groping for solutions. The events of 11 September 2001, the Afghan and the Iraq war, the open confrontation between Israel and Hamas and the African civil wars shape some of the dimensions of this world of disorder. Driving these crises are new realities — an all-out offensive against terrorism, arguments for pre-emption and unilateral action as an option for security, the targeting of Islamic radicalism and its fall-out as religious profiling. Somewhere, the coin of global cooperation has been debased. Each year we come to this Assembly to reaffirm our faith in the United Nations and our commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter. Today, we pause to grapple with doubts that have arisen about the relevance of the world body. I hasten to add that for Bangladesh, this pause is very short-lived. The cardinal question is not what is wrong with the United Nations, but what is right with it and how we can make it serve our purposes despite seeming setbacks. Three compelling factors stand out. The first is universality. All 191 States of the world wish to be within the fold of the international community. Second is the flip side of globalization. The bottom line is that no one State alone can deal with the intricate problems facing our world — be it the dysfunction of the collective security system, an interlocking economic, monetary, financial and trade grid, the challenges of globalization, international terrorism, environmental degradation, new diseases, trans-border organized crime, and so on. The conclusion is clear. The United Nations is indispensable as the central organ for the collective management of world affairs. The third factor is legitimacy. As has been underlined, the greatest strength of the United Nations remains its legitimacy, founded on the bedrock principles of international law. There is no substitute for that legitimacy. It is by this measure that we look to the United Nations. But as the Secretary-General notes in his report on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, “The war exposed deep divisions in the international community, with accusations of double agendas”. He goes on to observe that “The war in Iraq brought to the fore a host of questions of principle and practice that challenge the United Nations and the international community as a whole”. This is a sad commentary on the state of the world body today. In contrast, we have noted that wherever the United Nations was allowed to take up its rightful role and responsibility, and where it was provided with necessary support, it has achieved success, durable peace and stability. The experience of East Timor, Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to name only a few, have vindicated the legitimacy, role and relevance of the United Nations. War can be won by military might; the challenge lies in winning peace. That is what the United Nations, with over half a century of experience in peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace-building, is best placed to do. We in Bangladesh place our full trust — and have total confidence — in the capacity of the United Nations to address matters of international and global concern, including peace and security. We see the United Nations as a source of inspiration, initiative and support in our national, regional and international endeavours. It is in this forum that we establish common standards, universal values and shared programmes. In a globalizing world, no nation is an island; none can prosper alone. We therefore believe that today, more than ever before, the Organization deserves the support of all of our nations in a more active and demonstrable way. The Secretary-General deserves our appreciation for bringing the focus of the Organization back to its socio-economic agenda. We welcome his report on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. His assessment of the progress in achieving the Millennium Development Goals is sobering. While signs of progress for a given region are noted, the road to 2015 is long for many of our nations. The report of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific and the United Nations Development Programme concerning the Millennium Development Goals, for instance, draws attention to the worrying declines in the flow of official development assistance to the least developed areas and countries; it described that as “unacceptable and unconscionable”. The report has also called for reforms in the international trade system to help the poorest countries. Against that backdrop, the setback at the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference, held at Cancún, warrants an early resumption of the 12 negotiations. A breakthrough will require courageous decisions and significant compromises. Our commitment to the Millennium Development Goals also requires that the negotiations be concluded successfully. The global economic situation today dictates equitable trade policies and fair trade practices, which were sought in the Doha round. The economic survival and the socio-economic stability of many nations depend on how we handle post-Cancun challenges. The stakes are very high for all of us, in both the short and the long term. The development policies and programmes of our Government, led by the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Begum Khaleda Zia, are based on the Millennium Development Goals. Our resource allocation in the social sector remains high, and we have prepared a three-year economic growth, poverty reduction and social development strategy. That is a major initial policy framework. We look forward to working closely together with our development partners in our implementation of those policies. The governance paradigm in recent decades has happily embraced the fundamental tenets of democracy. In Bangladesh, we have the necessary institutions in place. We are reforming, modernizing and expanding them. As a thriving democracy ourselves, we support United Nations efforts aimed at promoting the rule of law, good governance and human rights. We believe that all human rights — including the right to development — should be pursued in a comprehensive manner and with a holistic approach. The past year has seen serious developments in the international peace and security situation, especially in Africa and the Middle East. Bangladesh has taken a positive and constructive approach to all these issues. We have consistently supported the efforts of the United Nations in that regard. We have done that as a matter of our commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations and its Charter. In practical terms, Bangladesh has remained a major partner of the United Nations in its peace and security mission. Over the past two decades, Bangladesh has participated in United Nations peacekeeping operations in four continents, including the most perilous ones. We are currently among the largest contributors of troops and other personnel to United Nations peacekeeping operations, with thousands of our troops in eight Missions, in Côte d’Ivoire, Western Sahara, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia and Eritrea, Kosovo, Timor-Leste and Georgia. Recently, we are also committed to taking part in the proposed United Nations mission in Liberia. The people of Iraq have inherited a civilization that is ancient and one of the most glorious. The present situation in Iraq should be resolved while preserving the interests of the people of Iraq and ensuring long-term peace, security and stability in the region. Bangladesh reiterates its support for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of the country. We stand ready to take part in the reconstruction and rebuilding of Iraq in the true spirit of brotherhood that characterizes the relationship between our two nations and peoples. We reiterate our call for ensuring a clear, effective and credible role for the United Nations in Iraq’s transition to democracy and in the country’s reconstruction. Bangladesh supports the forthcoming international conference on Iraq’s reconstruction to be convened by the United Nations, and we look forward to a successful outcome. The recent developments in the Middle East are extremely worrying. It is clear that the progress made from Oslo to Madrid and the present is now seriously threatened. The road map that the Palestinian side accepted with great courage has not been seriously accepted or implemented by the other side. Preconditions have been imposed, making peace difficult. The Israeli practices that are well known to the Assembly continue to be applied in occupied Palestine. There are gross and systematic violations of international humanitarian law and fundamental human rights. The vicious and criminal announcement of the intention to expel and even assassinate President Yasser Arafat calls for global condemnation in the strongest possible terms. All of that runs counter to the global demand for the peaceful settlement and establishment of a Palestinian State to live as a good neighbour in peace and security. Bangladesh reiterates its support for the early establishment of a sovereign, independent State of Palestine in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. We call for a more active role on the part of the United Nations, and we ask the Security Council to assume its responsibilities towards the people of Palestine. We urge the diplomatic Quartet to intensify its efforts to prevent further escalation and to 13 address the threats against President Arafat, a Nobel Peace laureate and the undisputed leader of the Palestinian people. We urge that the peace process be placed back on track. We call for renewed efforts aimed at a comprehensive solution of the Middle East issues within a given time frame. International terrorism remains a scourge. In the post-11 September 2001 context, it has taken centre stage in our global concerns. We reiterate our unequivocal condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Bangladesh is party to several international conventions on combating terrorism, and we are in the process of acceding to the remaining ones. We are actively involved in the elaboration of an additional protocol to the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation’s Regional Convention on Suppression of Terrorism. The protocol will strengthen the Convention by incorporating provisions that include those contained in recent Security Council resolutions, in particular resolution 1373 (2001). Bangladesh attaches great emphasis on disarmament. We believe that it is closely related to international peace and security and has a direct relationship with development. Bangladesh is party to all international disarmament treaties covering nuclear, biological, chemical and conventional weapons. Seeking general and complete disarmament is our constitutional commitment. International peace and security, human security and the security of our planet have been the prime considerations in making our policy choices. We have supported all efforts at disarmament. We continue to believe in the value of all measures, even partial efforts at arms control and disarmament. Our conviction has been vindicated by our progress in the control and ban of a number of weapons. The multilateral track, including the Conference on Disarmament, needs to be revived. Bangladesh has renounced all weapons of mass destruction — biological, chemical and nuclear. The situation along the borders of the two nuclear-armed South Asian countries has been a matter of global concern. As a close neighbour, we too have a legitimate cause for concern. In this context, we applaud the Secretary-General for his recent call for the elimination of all nuclear weapons. The imperatives, in view also of the threats to the existing regimes and their implications, do not require elaboration in this House. We would thus urge a renewed consideration of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) opinion and the report of the Canberra Commission on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons. In our region, as elsewhere, particularly since we are challenged by abject poverty, hunger, illiteracy, lack of safe drinking water and disease, our priorities should be socio-economic development, not nuclearization. We need to foster cooperation, not prepare for confrontation. It is with this thought that our late President Shaheed Ziaur Rahman conceived of institutionalized regional cooperation leading to the emergence of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). We firmly believe in the value and indeed the imperative of cooperation in our region. We hope that together we shall also be able to establish a peaceful, friendly and prosperous South Asia. We would draw inspiration from other parts of the world where such regional economic integration has worked well for the people of those regions. In today’s world, perhaps the most potential sources of conflict of interest within countries and among them would centre on natural resources, in particular, fresh water. We call for management of shared resources without depriving or causing damage to the economy or ecology of any of the countries concerned or the region. For example, any unilateral withdrawal of water from international rivers should be prohibited, as such action would cause great damage to the environment, agriculture, industry and the overall economy and ecology of other countries. All actions in such areas should conform to international law and the norms of equity, justice and, of course, fair play. Any decision with regard to shared natural wealth should be through consultation among all concerned countries. Bangladesh identifies itself closely with the problems of Africa. We believe in the efficacy of South-South cooperation as a mutually beneficial practice among societies at comparable stages of development. The launching of the African Union has been inspiring and that of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), encouraging. We are confident that the leadership of Africa and its people will succeed in transforming the continent into a peaceful and prosperous one. We have developed greater knowledge, special bonds and closer friendship with many African nations 14 through our participation in their democracy and nation-building efforts and through peacekeeping and development activities. Bangladesh will continue to work together with them in addressing the challenges of building durable peace and sustainable development. The specific problems facing the landlocked and small island developing countries require special attention. We hope the Almaty Conference has created a fresh impetus to address their needs. We must also accord support to countries that are in the process of transition in their economies. The 1990s have seen a series of major United Nations conferences. Each has adopted an elaborate implementable programme of action with clear and specific responsibilities at national, regional and international levels. The International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey, Mexico, the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg, and the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, which met in Brussels, have reinforced the earlier commitments. Now is the time to focus our efforts — individual and collective — to implementing the programmes of action emanating from those Conferences. The United Nations has, in recent years made significant progress in reforming itself in organizational and substantive terms. Further progress remains to be achieved in various areas, including the Security Council, where reforms are essential to make the Council more representative, democratic and effective. Also in need for further reform are the General Assembly and other major organs, including the Trusteeship Council, which could be revived. We need certainly to go further. Bangladesh welcomes the proposal of the Secretary-General to establish a high- level panel of eminent persons for examining the challenges to peace and security. We look forward to their report. In this regard, we would underline the importance of preserving multilateralism and consensus. Decisions on budget cuts must not compromise the functioning of the Organization and budgetary exercises must not adversely affect the interests of the developing countries, in particular the least developed ones. There should be adequate provision for mandated activities in the developing countries. It will remain our goal to bring the United Nations to the centre of global development efforts. The Economic and Social Council can play a crucial role in this regard. It must examine innovative and creative methods in its work. Bangladesh has sought election to the Economic and Social Council during the current session. As we have done in the past, Bangladesh seeks to contribute, as a member of the Council, to the pursuit of the United Nations social and economic agenda. We hope we shall receive valuable support from all Members of the Assembly. The Millennium Development Goals set a number of achievable targets in the most pressing areas. Bangladesh is committed to achieving them for our people. We shall also work closely with all other nations so that these objectives are realized equally for all of us. But we aspire to go beyond. We urge continued focus on the implementation of the outcome of the 1990s cycle of international conferences. They represent a comprehensive agenda for humanity for our century. We must follow up on them for our present and future generations and for the progress of humankind. Let us all try to create a better world for all generations.  ﻿I should like to begin by extending to Mr. Julian Hunte sincere congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. The Eritrean delegation is convinced that, under his wise guidance, this session will address, with vision and courage, the challenging issues that are confronting the world. My delegation would also like to take this opportunity to express appreciation and thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, for the wisdom and skill he displayed in leading the session to a successful conclusion. We also pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, for his steadfast commitment to the cause of peace and development — the twin pillars of the United Nations Charter. Eritrea pays tribute to and thanks the facilitators and guarantors of the United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE) and its partners, the troop- and observer-contributing countries, as well as donor countries, for the assistance they generously extended to ensure the success of the peace process. It also urges them not to be discouraged by the recent negative developments and to continue their assistance, which is essential for the achievement of peace and security in our region. Eritrea would like to bring to the Assembly’s attention the dangerous developments that are threatening to destroy the peace process between Eritrea and Ethiopia. In a message communicated to the Secretary-General, on 19 September 2003, Ethiopia officially rejected the decision of the Boundary Commission and threatened to unleash another war of aggression against Eritrea if the terms and conditions it had set were not met. It should be recalled that Ethiopia declared war on Eritrea in 1998 because it claimed ownership of the sovereign Eritrean town of Badme. At that time, we made every possible diplomatic effort to prevent an unwarranted and unjustifiable war — prior to and in the aftermath of Ethiopia’s official declaration of war. Unfortunately, that sent the wrong signal to Ethiopia and prompted the regime in power to pursue — with impunity — its policy of belligerence, and to unleash successive military offensives that that resulted in a great loss of life and the destruction of property. After a cycle of senseless and bloody military clashes, reason prevailed, with the signing of the Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities and the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in Algiers in June and December 2000, respectively. A Boundary Commission, empowered to be the final arbiter for the boundary claims, was subsequently created. The Commission announced its final and binding decision on 13 April 2002. Badme was confirmed by the Commission’s decision as being sovereign Eritrean territory. In spite of its treaty obligations to respect and duly implement the final and binding decision of the Boundary Commission, however, Ethiopia has chosen to flout international law and practice. Thus, its rejection of the entire decision and its denunciation of the Commission follow a series of major violations of the Algiers Agreements, including the illegal deployment of troops and the building of settlements in sovereign Eritrean territory, the aggravation of the suffering of over 60,000 Eritrean citizens, who remain displaced from their home villages in the temporary security zone, and the delay of demarcation because of obstructions caused by its tactics to prevent preparatory field work. That has resulted in huge financial cost to the international community. As most Members will have been informed by now, the Ethiopian Prime Minister declared, in a letter of 19 September to the Secretary-General, that the boundary demarcation process is “in terminal crisis”. The Prime Minister heaped insults on the Boundary Commission, dismissed its judgement as “totally illegal, unjust and irresponsible” and called on the Security Council to set up “an alternative mechanism” to demarcate the contested parts of the boundary. He further suggested that UNMEE should pack up and leave, and pleaded for international recognition and endorsement of Ethiopia’s occupation of sovereign Eritrean territories. Ethiopia’s provocative letter represents nothing less than an unprecedented assault on the fundamental principles of international law and the key tenets of the Algiers peace agreements, as well as Security Council resolution 1507 (2003). It is full of blatant lies and distortions in its account of the legal principles and 18 findings that the Boundary Commission invoked in determining the location of Badme. The Prime Minister’s letter contrasts sharply with the public statement of his Government when the Boundary Commission announced its decision on 13 April 2002. At that time, Ethiopia urged the international community to put intense pressure on Eritrea to accept and implement the decision of the Boundary Commission fully and faithfully. It declared full legal victory and even bragged about its “successful litigation strategy that hinged on a maximalist approach” of exaggerating its claims to include territories that never belonged to it. This blatant revelation, which is in fact true, was repeated by both the Prime Minister and his Minister for Foreign Affairs in a report to the Ethiopian Parliament as recently as last month. Let me now briefly address some of the issues raised in the Ethiopian letter. First, article 4.2 of the Algiers Peace Agreement unambiguously states that: “a neutral Boundary Commission composed of five members shall be established with a mandate to delimit and demarcate the colonial treaty border based on the pertinent colonial treaties (1900, 1902, 1908) and applicable international law.” Article 4.15 further states: “The parties agree that the delimitation and demarcation determinations of the Commission shall be final and binding. Each party shall respect the border so determined, as well as the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the other party”. Therefore, Ethiopia cannot thus arbitrarily and unilaterally discard these key provisions of the peace agreement or urge the Security Council to set up a new mechanism. Secondly, the Temporary Security Zone was never intended or set up to create a provisional boundary. Article 10 of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement specifically states that this will not prejudge the final status of the contested areas, which will be determined at the end of the delimitation and demarcation of the boundary. In this regard, it is instructive to note that the Boundary Commission had notified both parties, in its delimitation decision of 13 April 2002, to recognize and respect each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity as determined by the delimitation decision pending demarcation on the ground. The boundary is thus already determined. This is reinforced by Security Council resolution 1507 (2003), which calls on both parties to recognize and respect each other’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. Ethiopia’s ludicrous suggestion of “recognizing the southern boundary of the Temporary Security Zone” as the boundary between the two countries” thus represents a flagrant violation of the Algiers Peace Agreements and relevant Security Council resolutions. Thirdly, UNMEE’s mandate shall terminate when the delimitation-demarcation process of the border has been completed, pursuant to article 5 of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement. Ethiopia will again commit a gross violation of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement if, as it has intimated in its letter, it requests UNMEE to leave before completing its task. Obviously, Ethiopia’s primary concern is not the financial burden that UNMEE’s prolonged presence would entail for the international community. Ethiopia is, in fact, guilty of a litany of obstructions and violations that have in the past prevented expeditious demarcation. It cannot now shed crocodile tears or preach to the international community on ways and means of reducing financial costs. If this is a thinly veiled threat meant to convey to us its intentions of unleashing war, our response is that Ethiopia will be the sole party responsible for endangering regional peace and stability. As the main guarantor of the Algiers Peace Agreement, the Security Council has legal treaty obligations to prevent war. Indeed, in accordance with article 14 of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement, the Security Council should urgently consider Ethiopia’s flagrant violations of the Algiers Peace Agreement and take appropriate measures under Article VII of the Charter of the United Nations. Fourthly, Ethiopian leaders also argue that “the people of Ethiopia will not accept the decisions of the Boundary Commission [and that] Ethiopia will be embroiled in a political crisis and civil war if we accept the decision”. 19 These hackneyed arguments have been used by previous Ethiopian leaders to justify their wars of aggression. The truth is that the people of Ethiopia have enjoyed internal harmony only when they were at peace with Eritrea. Whenever it has been at war with Eritrea, Ethiopia has become a source of instability in the region, and its people the victims of recurrent famines and pestilence. Also, such declarations must ring an alarm bell, because they are similar, if not identical, to statements made by those leaders who embroiled Europe in the Second World War. In our view, Ethiopia’s leaders have assumed their lawlessness and aggressive invasion policy because they have been emboldened by past patterns of unjustifiable tolerance by the international community. No action was taken against Ethiopia when it violated the moratorium on air strikes brokered by the United States and launched its second offensive in February 1999. No action was taken against Ethiopia when, in violation of the technical arrangements forged by the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and considered final and binding, it launched its third offensive in May 2000. Ethiopia has now reached the apex of its record of lawlessness, contempt for the rule of law, treaty obligations and the Charter of the United Nations by rejecting the final and binding decision of an Arbitration Commission. How long will this culture of impunity continue? When is the world going to say, “Enough is enough” and invoke article 14 of the Algiers Agreement? Article 14 of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement states clearly, inter alia, that “OAU and the United Nations commit themselves to guarantee the respect for this commitment of the two parties until the determination of the common border on the basis of pertinent colonial treaties and applicable international law … This guarantee shall be comprised of: “(a) Measures to be taken by the international community should one or both of the parties violate this commitment, including appropriate measures to be taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations by the United Nations Security Council”. Should not the United Nations and the international community now take these actions in the name of justice and the Charter of the United Nations? The international community has already invested too much — in financial and in political terms — to help bring about a legal and peaceful resolution of the dispute. The political and financial leverage of the international community, as well as the instruments of persuasion at its disposal, are also substantial, as Ethiopia continues to receive lavish development assistance from multilateral and bilateral partners. Yet, while all the ingredients and safeguards of success are there, the danger of failure of the peace process is now distinct due to the failure of the international community to take seriously its obligations under this agreement and to take effective preventive measures. Unless appropriate action is taken now, before the situation explodes, crisis management will be too late and will not be worth the effort. In this spirit, the Eritrean delegation appeals to the General Assembly and to the international community to take necessary and timely actions to ensure that peace and security prevail in our region. The obligations of the international community are clear, while the measures at its disposal are expressly spelled out in the Algiers Agreement. Despite international guarantees, Ethiopia has chosen to blatantly violate international law and its solemnly signed treaty obligations. Since 19 September, when Ethiopia wilfully crossed a red line, it has set in motion an irreversible process to scuttle altogether the Agreement on Cessation of Hostilities between the Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and the Government of the State of Eritrea. That is an affront not only to Eritrea but also to the international community as a whole, and in particular to the United Nations and the Security Council. In his report (S/2003/257) to the Security Council earlier this year, Secretary-General Kofi Annan expressed his concern that the Eritrea-Ethiopia peace process was “at a critical stage”. The situation can now be considered explosive, paving the way — as Ethiopian leaders seem to wish — to renewed conflict, with its attendant horrific consequences, unless the international community acts promptly and decisively. The harmful effects of Ethiopia’s lawlessness will not be limited to Eritrea. They will impinge on the legitimacy and credibility of the United Nations and mock its core values, if only because they violate the hallowed injunction that States, big and small, need to 20 observe the basic principles of international law and the sanctity of legal agreements, and to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States. In conclusion, the people of Eritrea and Ethiopia have been denied peace for three decades. That has had a devastating effect on their economies. They deserve peace and development, which are now recognized as human rights. Yet such peace can be guaranteed only by respect for the rule of law, the sanctity of agreements and the sovereignty and territorial integrity established by arbitration decisions made on the basis of legal agreements. Eritrea has always been, and will continue to be, committed to such peace. It is now up to the international community, and in particular the Security Council, to uphold those principles and values. In essence, Ethiopia is no longer in conflict with Eritrea, but with the Charter, which the Security Council must uphold as it has done in several similar cases. ﻿I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, Foreign Minister of Saint Lucia, on his assumption of the office of President for the fifty- eighth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to commend Mr. Jan Kavan, former Deputy Prime Minister and former Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, for his devoted efforts during his tenure as President of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. First of all, I would like to touch upon the terrible tragedy that occurred last month. Special Representative of the Secretary-General Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and other United Nations staff, working diligently to facilitate the reconstruction and stabilization of Iraq, sacrificed their lives as a result of the cowardly bomb attack in Baghdad. On behalf of the Government of Japan, I take this opportunity to pay tribute to Mr. Vieira de Mello and his colleagues. Much of our time and energy since the general debate last year have gone into the discussion of the Iraq situation. In that process, questions have been asked about the role of the Security Council and the United Nations with respect to the Organization’s primary role of maintaining international peace and security. On the occasion of this general debate, we once again need to earnestly explore the meaning of this matter. There is no organization on earth more universal than the United Nations. No other organization addresses so many diverse issues as comprehensively as it does. I strongly believe that the United Nations will continue to play an important role that no other international organization can fulfil. The United Nations role should be enhanced through reform in order to restore the confidence that was shaken in the Iraq situation. All Member States are called upon in our joint effort to strengthen the Organization. 38 Today, we face a situation in which the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the threat of terrorism affect not only particular countries or regions but the world as a whole, presenting a new threat to our lives and our livelihood. It is imperative for each country to regard the issue as its own and to take action in concert with the countries facing such imminent threats. In order to establish an Iraqi Government run by the Iraqis themselves as soon as possible, the international community must join hands for securing peace and promoting reconstruction, and the United Nations must play an even more prominent role in those efforts. Japan strongly expects that a new Security Council resolution will be adopted, that the path towards Iraqi self-governance will be clarified and that the international partnership will be strengthened to promote reconstruction and security. Together with the international community, Japan continues to make every effort towards the restoration of security and the reconstruction of Iraq and in particular towards the successful conclusion of the Madrid donors conference for the reconstruction of Iraq to be held next month. With respect to peace in the Middle East, I am deeply concerned that the road map has reached a critical stage. I call upon both sides to exercise the utmost restraint in order to restore calm on the ground. The Palestinian Authority must resolutely disavow the use of terror, work expeditiously to establish a new cabinet and take action to control the extremist factions. Israel, in turn, must act with prudence and caution, mindful of the consequences of its own actions. In particular, the expulsion of Chairman Yasser Arafat can only result in a deterioration of the situation. Japan once again urges Israel not to proceed with the implementation of measures which would result in Chairman Arafat’s removal. From the perspectives of peace and security in North-East Asia and international non-proliferation, the development and possession of nuclear weapons by North Korea must never be tolerated. Japan once again urges North Korea to immediately and completely dismantle all of its nuclear development programmes in a verifiable and irreversible manner. This issue should be resolved peacefully by diplomatic efforts including the six-party talks process. Based on the Pyongyang Declaration between Japan and North Korea, Japan seeks the resolution of various outstanding issues between Japan and North Korea, including the nuclear issue, the missile issue and the abduction issue, which was addressed explicitly by the Assembly last December in its resolution on the question of enforced or involuntary disappearances (57/215). Upon the comprehensive resolution of those issues, Japan is looking to effect the normalization of its diplomatic relations with North Korea. With regard to Iran, Japan calls upon Iran to take seriously the resolution adopted at the 12 September meeting of the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Iran must appease the concerns of the international community regarding the nuclear issue. It must comply immediately with all measures prescribed in the resolution, which include cooperating fully with IAEA to rectify problem points by the end of October of this year. Iran must also ratify the IAEA Additional Protocol immediately and unconditionally and implement it in its entirety. The very urgency of those issues reminds us of the importance of the crossroads at which we now stand with respect to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty regime. The horror and devastation caused by nuclear weapons should not be repeated. Japan is redoubling its efforts to maintain and fortify the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation regime, with this treaty as its core. At the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, Japan will submit a draft resolution entitled “Path to the total elimination of nuclear weapons” and aim to secure adoption of the resolution by an overwhelming majority of Member States. Furthermore, Japan considers the early entry- into-force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty to be of extreme importance as a concrete means of strengthening the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty regime. Despite the serious efforts of the international community to combat terrorism in the wake of the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, precious lives continue to be lost by terrorist attacks in Jakarta, Baghdad and many other locations around the globe. Insofar as improvements in the terrorism-related response capabilities of all nations are required for the eradication of international terrorist organizations, Japan continues to provide capacity-building assistance to developing countries, with special emphasis on Asian countries. In addition, Japan calls upon all Member States to work to bring about the early conclusion of the counter-terrorism conventions as well as the implementation of Security Council resolution 39 1373 (2001) in order to deprive terrorists of the means for their activities and safe havens. In the twenty-first century, we cannot address the dangers and threats now confronting the world with military and political measures alone. Our responses must be well thought out, detailed and sustained, addressing every facet of the issues we face, including the social aspect, humanitarian and human rights concerns, and the question of economic reconstruction. Furthermore, we must strive to guarantee human rights, democracy and good governance by creating a social environment that enables each and every human being to realize his or her maximum potential. On the basis of this realization, Japan has made the consolidation of peace and nation-building one of the pillars of its diplomacy and its international cooperation efforts, and it is contributing actively in a variety of areas, including peacekeeping operations. Moreover, in the conceptual framework of human security, Japan has made efforts to enhance both protection and capacity at the individual, human level. Japan will continue to work for the realization of the recommendations made in the report submitted by the Commission on Human Security in cooperation with the United Nations, Member States and non- governmental organizations, through diplomatic measures such as official development assistance. Specific examples of Japan’s efforts include assistance in nation-building, such as the deployment of Japan’s Self-Defence Forces in Timor-Leste; the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme it is now implementing jointly with the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan; and support for the peace process and for reconstruction and development in the form of efforts such as the Tokyo Conference on Reconstruction and Development of Sri Lanka. Measures against infectious diseases are also crucial in ensuring human security. The example of SARS demonstrated to the world yet again the importance of international cooperation in the mitigation of such diseases. Japan welcomes the results of yesterday’s General Assembly High-level Meeting on HIV/AIDS, which reconfirmed both the commitment of every nation to the goals set forth in the Political Declaration and the importance of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. With regard to Africa, Japan has been cooperating for its development on the basis of the principles of ownership and partnership, aiming at poverty eradication through economic growth, as well as providing assistance in conflict prevention in order to secure the peace and political stability which are prerequisites to development. The Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD) process is now in its 10th year. TICAD III will convene on 29 September. In response to the ownership of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), TICAD III intends to expand partnerships with international organizations and the countries concerned, and particularly with civil society and Asian countries which have successfully realized development, in order to share the wisdom and experiences of the international community in the area of African development. As the representative of an Asian country, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight two issues that relate to peace and security in the Asian region. The first is the detention of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi by the Government of Myanmar. Japan is continuing to make serious diplomatic efforts to bring about the expeditious resolution of this worrisome situation and to facilitate concrete progress towards national reconciliation and democratization. The second issue concerns the Khmer Rouge trials in Cambodia. Japan believes that it is necessary for each country to extend considerable cooperation in order to ensure that these trials take place and that they exhibit an unswerving application of the principles of law and justice of the international community. In the community of nations, diversity is both respected and cherished. For that reason, the formulation of a set of common rules under which the entire global community can act as one is of extreme importance. The United Nations has made significant progress in this area to date. I would like to explain some of the agenda items which Japan will be pursuing at the United Nations, here in the General Assembly and elsewhere, in order to formulate such rules. Such rules will constitute the basis for well-thought-out, detailed and sustained responses to a broad spectrum of issues, including socio-economic, environmental and human rights issues. 40 In the field of the environment, it is imperative that the international momentum for climate change negotiations be maintained. I appeal to the representatives of all nations who are gathered here to recognize the importance of the early entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol and of the formulation of common rules which will facilitate participation by all countries, including the United States of America and developing countries. The protection and promotion of the rights of disabled persons is also of great importance. Japan welcomes the decision taken in June of this year to establish a working committee which will draft an international convention on the promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities; Japan will actively participate in this process. With regard to the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development, Japan looks forward to the adoption of a resolution promoting the creation of an implementation plan in which the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) serves as the lead agency. Disaster prevention is an indispensable element for a safer world in the twenty-first century, not merely because of its role in the follow-up to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, but also as an essential prerequisite for achieving much of the sustainable development agenda. Japan proposes to host the World Conference on Natural Disaster Reduction in order to develop new strategies on disaster prevention. For the United Nations to fulfil the role of bringing about a world of peace and prosperity based on common rules embraced by the entire international community, the reform of the United Nations, particularly that of the Security Council, as its core, must be urgently addressed. Today’s conflicts have become more diversified and increasingly complex, as evidenced in cases where a civil war escalates due to the dysfunctional condition of a State. To respond to these new challenges, the Security Council has taken on new tasks, such as the deployment of multinational forces, when necessary, to restore order. Such tasks also include the expansion of the role of peacekeeping activities from military and police activities such as ceasefire monitoring to humanitarian activities, including assistance for the repatriation of refugees, as well as assistance for democratic elections and reconstruction efforts. The Security Council must take on a variety of these tasks in working for the resolution of today’s conflicts. For the Security Council to address these challenges comprehensively, there is a need to strengthen the functioning of the Council by including countries that are both willing and able to shoulder responsibilities at the global level as permanent members. Japan continues to work diligently for the realization of Security Council reform and would like to assume greater responsibility as a permanent member in a reformed Council. The issues about which I am speaking today are hardly new. Discussions on the reform of the Security Council have been under way for 10 years now. Yet, despite a series of exhaustive discussions about how the Council should be reformed, we are still unable to see progress in any concrete terms. It is no exaggeration to say that, if we continue along this path, the ability of the United Nations to respond adequately to new and complex challenges will be seriously brought into question. We must take concrete action now. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, makes a strong case for United Nations reform in his report (A/58/323) entitled, “Implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration”. He proposes that we set 2005 as a deadline for reaching agreement on the changes that are needed in our international institutions if we are to meet the new challenges, because 2005 not only marks the sixtieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations but is also the year in which a review of progress on the Millennium Declaration will take place. I am of the view that a political decision should be taken on the occasion of that review at a meeting of heads of State or Government regarding the reform of the United Nations, in particular the Security Council. With regard to the “enemy State” clauses in the United Nations Charter, a General Assembly resolution was adopted in 1995, recognizing them to be obsolete. Those clauses have not yet, however, been deleted from the Charter. This is an extremely regrettable situation. Japan will work to find appropriate solutions to this issue, in view of the progress on United Nations reform. Administrative and budgetary reform of the United Nations is also necessary in order to increase both its effectiveness and its efficiency. With regard to 41 the size of the United Nations budget, it is necessary to give careful consideration to the financial burden on Member States. Japan calls on the United Nations both to conduct a strict prioritization of its activities and to eliminate those activities which are neither essential nor urgent. We must also consider appropriate methods to make the scale of assessments for all Member States more balanced. Finally, equitable geographical distribution among Member States for the number of staff members of the Secretariat has yet to be attained. The present situation is of concern and needs to be improved. Japan believes that international peace and prosperity can be achieved only through cooperation among nations, with the United Nations playing an important role. Japan has used all means at its disposal to contribute to United Nations activities, so that the objectives contained in the United Nations Charter may ultimately be realized. Let me make it clear that Japan will continue to be actively engaged in United Nations activities. However, the perpetuation of the same basic Security Council structure of 60 years ago leads many to question the legitimacy of the system under which the United Nations operates. The legitimacy of the United Nations is at stake. In closing, I would like once again to urge all Member States to take concrete actions to strengthen the functions of this Organization and restore its legitimacy in the eyes of the nations and citizens of the world. ﻿As a Vice- President at this session, Senegal, through me, expresses to the President its heartfelt congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth regular session. In that election, I see a mark of confidence and a tribute to his wonderful country, Saint Lucia, but also to our entire sister community, the countries members of the Caribbean Community. He may therefore be assured of Senegal's full cooperation in the exercise of his important duties. Let me also express my sincere thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, for the decisive results achieved during his term of office. I should like to express my fraternal and friendly greetings to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to tell him how proud I am of the spirit of initiative, commitment and resolve that he has displayed with vigour and determination in his noble mission in the service of our common aspirations to peace, universalism and solidarity. It is precisely in the name of those shared ideals that my country, Senegal, reaffirms once again its fervent support for the readmission of the Republic of China on Taiwan as a full-fledged Member of the United Nations. By doing that without calling into question the participation and the legitimate status of any other Member of the great United Nations family we would do justice to that country's 23 million hard-working and disciplined inhabitants, deeply attached to the values of peace, freedom and democracy enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Two years ago, on 11 September 2001, the world discovered the new face of international terrorism, right here and in all its horror. Certainly, other bloody attacks have taken place, here and elsewhere, before and since those tragic events; even the United Nations has not been spared. The attack that cost the life of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, High Commissioner for Human Rights, and those of many other United Nations staff, is a sinister reminder that the terrorist threat is now global in its targets and pernicious in its means of action. Indeed, a defender of human rights has been deprived of the most basic human right: the right to life. 11 Consequently, a collective, united, coordinated response is required at all levels. In that spirit, Senegal took the initiative on 17 October 2001 to call for an African anti-terrorism summit with a view to strengthening cooperation in that regard at the continental level, thus joining its efforts with the Algiers Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism. It is still our conviction that Africa must not remain the soft underbelly of the system that is gradually being established to combat international terrorism in all its forms, in the wake of the armed conflicts and the humanitarian tragedies that have been causing bloodshed in the world. With regard to the situation in Africa, Senegal salutes the significant progress achieved in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Liberia. Those two friendly countries, afflicted by so many years of civil war, seem at last to have embarked on the path of negotiation and dialogue, an essential condition for a definitive return to peace. Moreover, Senegal welcomes the Security Council's decision to send a peacekeeping force to Liberia in support of the troops of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), including the Senegalese troops already in place. In the sisterly Republic of CÙte d'Ivoire, Senegal welcomes the progress made in the national reconciliation process on the basis of the Linas- Marcoussis Agreements, in the hope that the incident that occurred two days ago will prove to be only a hitch. I encourage my Ivorian sisters and brothers to persevere on the path of reconciliation, cooperation and mutual confidence in order to safeguard that country's national unity and territorial integrity with the help of the ECOWAS interposition force under Senegalese command. In many respects, sources of concern persist on the continent, particularly in West Africa, formerly known for its stability. I am thinking in particular of those who would call into question democratically elected regimes. We must say forcefully that the time must be past for coups d'Ètat in Africa. Everyone must understand from now on that legitimate power, whose sole agent remains the people, cannot be acquired, preserved or transferred except by means of the ballot box that is, through the force of law, not the law of force or that of weapons. Senegal, for its part, is complying strictly with the Declaration of Algiers of 1999, which enshrines the principle of excluding from the proceedings of the African Union any regime established in violation of internal constitutional order. Last July, it was on the basis of that Declaration and thanks to the vigorous reaction of African countries including mine that constitutional legality was re-established only a few days after a coup d'Ètat in Sao Tome and Principe. That example that precedent should serve as a lesson to anyone who might yet be tempted by this practice, which runs counter to democratic values. Only 10 days ago in Guinea-Bissau, a democratically elected President was deposed by a group of officers. As soon as I was informed of this, I cited the position of the African Union in calling for the military to relinquish power. President Kufuor, Chairman of the Economic Community of West African States; President Chissano, President of the African Union; President Obasanjo of Nigeria; and I immediately took the situation in hand. This led to the establishment of an entirely civilian Government. From this rostrum, I should like to make a solemn appeal to the international community. Guinea-Bissau, a fraternal country bordering on Senegal, needs immediate assistance. Only diligent and consistent economic assistance can create the conditions for a lasting return to social peace and political and institutional stability in that country. As Chairman of the United Nations Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, Senegal remains gravely concerned by the deadlock in the peace process in the Middle East. Too much blood has been shed and too much suffering endured in that land holy to the three great revealed religions. And yet, one must face the fact that a peaceful solution is the sole, best guarantee of survival for all the peoples affected by daily death and anguish. We must pursue efforts to ensure a return to the negotiating table on the basis of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, the principle of land for peace and the parameters established in the road map so that, at last, this long nightmare can yield to the oft-aborted dream of peoples who cherish peace and freedom. However, if the words attributed to one Israeli authority are well founded, my country would warn against any attack on the physical integrity of President Yasser Arafat and against any decision of expulsion. 12 Any such act would have incalculable consequences. Senegal rejects and condemns violence in all its forms, regardless of who the victims and perpetrators may be or the reasons invoked, and reiterates its unfailing support for the establishment of an independent and sovereign Palestinian State within secure and internationally recognized borders, just as we have always recognized Israel's right to exist in the same conditions. I have the feeling, however, that if we confine ourselves to issuing statements without making any real effort to find a concrete solution, the tragedy that is unfolding before our eyes in cycles of violence will last a very long time. The Israeli and Palestinian authorities have asked me, without my seeking it, to help them to settle this conflict, which is beginning to look like the Thirty Years War or even the Hundred Years War. Those authorities may recall simply that Senegal has resolved for itself one of the greatest contradictions of our time: the coexistence in one land of Muslims and Christians, who live in a ratio of 95 per cent to 5 per cent in our country. Christians, far from suffering from any discrimination, are fully integrated into national life, to the extent that a Christian has been the President of our Republic for 20 years and supported by Muslims. That is why I myself have turned to great thinkers and theoreticians on the issue of conflict to see if their words might be useful to us. A compatriot of Jacques Chirac, Mr. Gaston Boutoul, invented the science of war and, more generally, of conflict known as polemology, the objective of which is to understand, through scientific analysis, the motivations and mechanisms of war and conflict. A sociological approach includes individual psychology, collective and social psychology, economics and the environment. I should like to subscribe to this approach and, in the light of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, to make a modest contribution. It seems to me that there are two possible approaches to the conflict: that of the aggressor aggressed' theory and that of the occupier occupied' theory. If we seek to identify who is in one category and who is in the other, we find ourselves in a complete impasse. Unfortunately, that is what each of the parties is doing. In the first scenario, Israelis and Palestinians each claim to be the aggressed and accuse each other of being the aggressor. In the second, while Israel is undeniably the occupier, it justifies this state of affairs by pointing to the so-called aggression of Palestinians. Hence, we return to the first theory and set in motion an endless cycle. Let us not play this game, which is one of massacre for the parties to the conflict and of hide-and- seek on our side, where political and diplomatic interests cloud the search for an equitable solution. The aim of my proposal is to move beyond the subjective approaches of the two parties by introducing external action, specifically on the part of the international community. Instead of pursuing the course of mutual accusation which, it may be noted, leads nowhere because each party is subjective I would simply propose that we eliminate the two problems by merging them into a single, unique problem. The dispatch of international forces to secure uncontested borders and the placing on stand-by' status of the parts of the territory on which there is no consensus would eliminate de facto the two approaches of occupier occupied' and aggressor aggressed'. I believe that this approach is all the more feasible and realistic in that Israel has declared itself prepared to return all the occupied territories 90 per cent of them first and then negotiating a border correction to compensate for the other 10 per cent. That would allow us to abandon the two theories, which can only eternally pit the two parties against each other and divide the international community. The greatest war of all time, that of 1939-1945, pitted French against German. Today, they no longer agonize over the question of who was the aggressor and who the aggressed, or of who was the occupier and who the occupied. All such issues have today been confined to history. All the parties have decided to join efforts in a cooperative project: the European Union. I would ask, therefore: Can we not dream of a post-war period in which Israel and Palestine can embark on real cooperation to the benefit of their two peoples? As Members know, the Fifth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization ended in acknowledged failure just a few days ago in Cancun. Beyond that specific event, we need to reflect more in depth on the international trading system. There is something paradoxical in this system based on a liberal philosophy, but in which the rich countries spend over $1 billion a day in various subsidies for their own agricultural sectors. This ruinous practice leads to the freefall of the prices of our peasants' agricultural 13 commodities and threatens millions of jobs and the lives of over 2 billion human beings. The hypothetical mechanism of limiting the perverse effects of subsidies can in no way be a credible solution to the enormous damage done to the developing countries. I believe that the time has come radically to rethink the mechanisms of international trade in order to break away from this implacable logic of injustice and inequity. In that context, I have taken the initiative of proposing to convene, every two years in Senegal, an agricultural Davos' an agricultural Dakar, rather to encourage thinking on a credible alternative to the current system. It is indeed in no one's interest for the present imbalances to persist, because they promote poverty, favour unemployment and destitution, and fuel the feelings of exclusion and despair that lead to extremism of all types. Once again, for us it is a question of calling not for assistance, but for the implementation of a minimum level of fairness in trade free trade, but fair trade. The challenges of globalization and interdependence that it entails forces us to devise new approaches that go beyond the obsolete assistance policies to create the conditions for a new kind of partnership, which alone is capable of breaking the vicious cycle of poverty. Senegal reiterates its commitment to implementing the 2001-2010 Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries and renews its support for the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, whose activities deserve to be strengthened by the donor community in the framework of a trust fund established for that purpose. The vision put forward by the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is also relevant to the new kind of partnership just mentioned. For two years now, our continent has been carrying out a quiet revolution to firmly take its destiny in its own hands against the background of key factors such as peace, stability, good governance in the public and private sectors and regional cooperation. Specific plans have been developed and are available to all our partners. We have been learning as we go along, by creating a gas pipeline in West Africa, for example, which will supply along 600 kilometres 3,640,000 cubic metres of gas starting from Nigeria to Benin, Ghana and Togo. The electricity grids in southern African that brings together the national electricity companies of 12 countries of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) is another example of Africa's will to pool our resources. Today NEPAD has designated 14,000 kilometres of roads and just as many kilometres of railways to be laid, and this is one of our top priorities. In the area of new information and communications technology, fibre optics now link Europe and the United States to Dakar, Pretoria and Kuala Lumpur, with connections extending inside the continent. Those specific examples fully show our determination to make NEPAD a reality rather than a good intention or unrealistic plan. On a continent where everything still needs to be built, it is not a matter of the need to identify opportunities but rather to seize them. On the whole, we are committed to creating an environment in which there will be a clear interest in investment and secure business operations. On a different order, the African Peer Review Mechanism has been launched, and colleagues before me have already spoken about it. Together with our partners, we are ready to fulfil the goals of NEPAD. In a few days, some African heads of State will be in Tokyo to establish cooperative ties between Japan and Africa through the Tokyo International Conference on African Development. In a report on the state of the international community, the Secretary-General made an analysis that sounded alarm bells: the world does not seem to be sharing much anymore. The collective security machinery established by the Charter is already threatened. The United Nations system inherited from the Second World War no longer sufficiently meets the challenges of the twenty-first century. He therefore calls for the implementation of reform, as spelled out in the Millennium Declaration. Let us explore together the guidelines that were established by the Secretary-General. Let us make way for a culture of peace and dialogue among civilizations, which bears the fertile seeds for consensus, understanding and peaceful coexistence. Let us resist the temptation of isolationism and rule of force, for as Jean-Jacques Rousseau rightly said in The Social Contract': The strongest is never strong enough to be always the master, unless he transforms strength into law, and obedience into duty.' Let us ensure that, however diverse we may be, the universal values of 14 peace, freedom, democracy and respect for human rights will always be safeguarded. I take this occasion to voice my support for the position expressed by President Bush against the heinous sex trade and other forms of slavery. Instead of vague, futile statements of intention, let us all agree to a realistic platform and guarantee that specific measures are taken. In that regard, we can justly raise questions on the follow-up to commitments undertaken at the Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development. Concerning all these issues vital to humanity's survival, the United Nations must, in accordance with the Charter, ensure that its mission remain clearly in sight, a mission that is a focal point at which our efforts towards humanity's common goals are harmonized. I strongly believe that this need corresponds to the legitimate aspirations of all the peoples whom we represent here.  ﻿In September of each year the Member States of the United Nations politically rediscover the Organization of which they are shareholders and beneficiaries. The practice of business as usual should not mark this session of the General Assembly. The Secretary- General suggested that the heads of State and Government come to New York to make their contribution towards the strengthening of the United Nations. Portugal, as a committed member of this Organization, wishes to take part in this debate with a clear objective: to recognise, as does Kofi Annan, that the United Nations is an indispensable tool, and also to recognise that we must re-examine our practices and our working tools. Inactivity is not an option that this Organization should contemplate. Rethinking the United Nations means, first of all, reaffirming and rethinking its Charter. Maintaining peace and international security will continue to be our main objective. But the reaffirmation of our faith in fundamental rights, in the dignity and worth of human beings, in equality between men and women and in equality between nations, is also part of our vision for the United Nations, as is the determination to promote, together, social progress and better living conditions for our peoples. These objectives must not be overlooked when the Organization faces crises of confidence from time to time. The Secretary-General is correct in his encouragement to us to persevere. But a positive mental attitude is not enough. It is also essential that we do not ask more of the Organization than it can provide at any given moment. Otherwise, great expectations will lead to great disappointments. Realism and pragmatism are necessary, but we must not lose sight of the ambitious objectives that this Organization is intended to serve. It is time for us to look at the United Nations as a reflection of what we are collectively, and not as a convenient scapegoat to mask the incapacity that the Member States sometimes still reveal when we should, but are unable, to act together. 24 We are also bound to understand, sooner or later, that we are facing common threats that require common responses. At the forefront of these threats is terrorism. In fact, a new type of terrorism has emerged: the terrorism of mass destruction that constitutes a crime against humanity; the terrorism that kills blindly and indiscriminately in New York, in Bali, in Casablanca and in Nairobi, in the name of non-values presented as values on ideological and religious grounds; and the terrorism that did not spare the United Nations itself, as we so tragically witnessed in Baghdad. The crime which claimed the lives of Sergio Vieira de Mello and his collaborators was an attack on all of the values which the United Nations represents. It was an attack against us all. If there were still lingering doubts or illusions when some thought that terrorism was aimed essentially at some States, they disappeared in Baghdad. It was not the Iraqi people who murdered Sergio Vieira de Mello and United Nations personnel. Terrorists are responsible for that crime. It is not the Iraqi people who are opposed to the United Nations presence in their country. Again, it is the terrorists. The United Nations must not bow to terrorism. Portugal believes that the United Nations should have a central role in the definition of a global strategy for fighting terrorism, largely because maintaining international peace and security depends on the outcome of this fight. It is a fight we must undertake without losing our souls, that is to say, the values on which this Organization is built. It is for this reason that more security is necessary, but also more democracy, more dialogue between cultures and civilizations, more development, more and better environmental protection measures and a drastic reduction in poverty. It is also vital that this fight be undertaken in the name of, and with respect for, our law — international law. The concept of the rule of law should have real global resonance. This is why we defend the improvement of the laws in force, namely through the negotiation of a global convention on international terrorism. But we must also bear in mind that international law will be irrelevant without the imposition of its norms, by force if necessary. New challenges and new threats require innovative responses from the United Nations. It seems blatantly obvious that the composition and decision- making process of the Security Council are obsolete. But changes are also needed in this Assembly, which each year automatically re-adopts hundreds of resolutions instead of adopting only those that are strictly necessary. As for the Economic and Social Council, the most that can be said is that the external impact of its actions is not perceptible, while the Trusteeship Council is nothing more than a relic devoid of any relevant objective. In his report on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration (A/58/323), the Secretary- General focused on this point with particular insight. The proposals that he put forward should guide our thinking and joint action. But there is a particularly worrying aspect, on which we can, and indeed must, act without delay. I am referring to the need for the establishment of a real preventive culture by the United Nations in matters of armed conflict. In this context, we agree with the relevance that the Secretary-General attributes to preventive diplomacy, to disarmament and non- proliferation measures, to peace-building, to respect for human rights, to good governance and to the development agenda. In the final analysis, we must be fully aware that the usefulness of the United Nations will always be judged as a function of its capacity to avoid and handle conflicts. In the implementation of that mission, the fundamental role lies with the Security Council, which has, over the years, authorized various peacekeeping operations. The overall result has been positive. Portugal has contributed significantly to those operations and remains available to continue to collaborate with the United Nations. But conditions on the ground are not always clear-cut, and it is not always possible to separate what is and what is not a conflict, and what would justify or not an intervention by the Security Council. There is an immense grey area that can be perilous in pre-conflict and post-conflict situations. We must also create the tools for dealing with countries and situations that do not need support in terms of security, namely through a peacekeeping operation. The intervention of the United Nations at the critical phase of a conflict, followed by a premature withdrawal, may well end in failure, which will 25 essentially lead to the waste of the investment made by the international community up to that point. This assessment recommends, for example, that the United Nations continue to monitor closely the situation in East Timor. It is a country whose democratic institutions are still in the consolidation phase. Without a tradition of self-government, it has made uncommonly rapid progress in several areas but is still in need of our help and attention. If we truly want East Timor to be a real success story for the United Nations, it is important to give the people of East Timor time to consolidate their institutions. However, in other cases in which a peace operation is not yet justified and where State institutions are fragile, where there is an enormous lack of basic services and development has not taken off, it is advisable to have a strong United Nations presence, coordinated on the ground by the Secretary-General. I would also like to take this opportunity to mention Guinea-Bissau, which is frequently overlooked and which once again requires our attention. Having avoided falling into a destructive spiral as has happened to so many countries in the region, that country is still fighting to recover. It must be helped, not ignored. They are a people who can and should be helped by the international community — and indeed deserve to be. For that reason, we support the efforts of the Secretary-General on behalf of democracy and development and applaud the original contribution of the Economic and Social Council. Under the present conditions, the Security Council does not take into account all the factors involved in prevention: security, nation building and development. Each one follows a more or less independent path. There is one other factor to add: the Council is fully absorbed with the management of the most pressing matters on the international agenda and at times demonstrates a notorious lack of attention to some countries in pre- or post-conflict situations. We believe there is a solid case for advocating the creation of a new institutional mechanism: a new commission with the mandate to routinely monitor cases of conflict-prevention and the creation of conditions for peace and development. In conjunction with the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, which would both preserve their respective areas of competence, this commission could identify and deal with the most pressing needs. For each of the countries in situations of risk, it would draw up integrated strategies allying the objectives of security and strengthening institutions and economic and social development. While other decisions of great importance are being prepared, we can — and should — begin here to deal with pre- and post-conflict situations. It is not enough for the United Nations to affirm its relevance. It is absolutely indispensable that the Organization is seen as relevant by the Member States and that States act accordingly. The credibility of the Organization must not be questioned. Otherwise its functioning and effectiveness may be severely compromised. Iraq is undoubtedly the case that requires of us all, in particular the members of the Security Council, that we carefully evaluate the Organization’s capacity for action. A collective turn of the page is necessary, since there is no valid alternative to a policy that enables the Iraqi people to freely define their system of Government and political leadership and that maintains the country’s political and territorial integrity. To build a democratic society on the ruins of one of the most violent dictatorships of the past century is a challenge the international community must not shrink. It is a task that demands much realism with respect to the difficulties to be confronted. For that very reason, Portugal has always been in favour of the progressive involvement of the United Nations in Iraq’s stabilization process, with a corresponding gradual transfer of power to Iraqi representatives. We also encourage the Security Council to come to a rapid understanding on this matter. For our part, we are already taking concrete steps, including in the security field, to support all those that are already locally assisting the Iraqi people to live in freedom. A larger commitment by the international community is indispensable for resuming the Middle East peace process. The road map cannot be shelved. It is up to us to demand a proactive attitude from all interested parties. Also, we should not be indifferent to the Palestinian people’s legitimate desire for liberty and self-determination. Israel and Palestine will have to coexist in peace and in security, within recognized borders. But here again, terrorism, which only benefits 26 the enemies of peace, must be condemned without ambiguity. Great challenges generate great opportunities. It is up to us, the Members of the United Nations, to create the conditions that will allow this Organization to function in accordance with its potential and the ideas that were an integral part of its creation. Those ideas remain valid, and Portugal stands ready to give its contribution. ﻿Today I stand before the Assembly representing the voice of the Iraqi citizen who long suffered from cruelty within and outside his homeland. Those within his country inflicted on him the worst kinds of torture: they attacked his honour, assaulted his family, humiliated him, shackled him, oppressed him and forced him into miserable wars. His brothers and his friends in the region not only remained silent, ignored him and turned a blind eye to his catastrophe, they also criticized and faulted him the moment he dared to speak up. And throughout the world, those who stood to benefit scrambled to do business and cooperate with his torturer. Very few accepted and spoke the truth; very few considered the catastrophe of their fellow human being and declared that he was a victim. He heard no response to his appeals. So the Iraqi citizen remained lost and doubly persecuted — first, with the injustice of the sword with which the dictatorial regime attacked him at home, and then with the injustice of criticism — a more painful affliction — from many abroad. But the Iraqi citizen did not give up. Rather, he was persistent and patient, and he continued his struggle through his thoughts, words and actions to achieve liberation, the ideal for which he had always yearned most. I stand today before the Assembly expressing to Members to the best of my ability the voice of this Iraqi individual, declaring with him and on his behalf the end of silence. I ask each Member present here to listen to him. 28 I come today to present the Assembly with four essential truths and to demonstrate, through those truths, two fundamental rights. The first truth is that Iraq’s long, dark night has ended. The bitter experience of humiliation, oppression, suppression, and dictatorship that the Iraqis endured for more than three decades has ended. It ended with the fleeing of the head of the regime, along with his cronies, and with the collapse of the symbols that he had erected in Baghdad and throughout Iraq. The second truth is that the liberation of Iraq — and what took place was indeed liberation — could not have been achieved had it not been for the resolve of President George W. Bush and the commitment of the coalition, headed by the United States of America and the United Kingdom. The Iraqis will never forget their sacrifices and the courage they displayed in Iraq’s liberation. If today we hear the voices of those who question the intentions of the Governments of the United States and the United Kingdom in undertaking the liberation, we invite them to come to visit the mass graves, the drained marshes and the gassed city of Halabja, and to examine the list of the missing whose right to life was taken from them by the regime. The third truth is that the liberation embodied a universal Iraqi national resolve. The liberation came as a result of vigorous Iraqi efforts to oppose the deposed regime during many long years when hundreds of thousands of martyrs were sacrificed. The martyr Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim and his companions — may God rest their souls — were not the last victims; they added another page to the annals of Iraqi bravery on 29 August, the day of the Iraqi martyr. Nor was death by treachery spared the martyr Akila al-Hashemi. The fourth truth is that the removal of the regime was only the prelude to the birth of a new Iraq. The birth that has been prepared for by so many faithful Iraqis, both at home and abroad, is at hand. A unique experience awaits us in Iraq today. We will succeed through our desire to do good, to achieve development and to let freedom spread and flourish. I stand here today to confirm that, with God’s help, we in Iraq will accept nothing short of success. Iraqis are capable of succeeding, and they want to succeed. We will not allow a gang of mercenaries and terrorists to deprive the Iraqi citizen, the Iraqi society and the Iraqi nation of a bright tomorrow. The land of the two rivers, the cradle of civilization, the land of Sumer, Akkad, Babylon and Assyria, the land of peace, the land of the caliphate and the house of wisdom, the home of the Code of Hammurabi and the storehouse of accumulated knowledge, literature, poetry and intellectual achievement is dependent, first and foremost, on its human resources more than on its natural and oil resources. On the basis of its human resources, Iraq can undergo a qualitative sea change, moving it from the grip of totalitarianism and fear to stability, prosperity and tolerance. What the international community puts into Iraq will be returned many times over. Put your confidence in Iraq and receive from it stability and prosperity. Not only would stability and prosperity be Iraq’s but they would spread to the rest of the region and the entire world. The Iraq that we want to see is the Iraq of the innovative individual. More than 60 per cent of Iraq’s population is below the age of 20. Our first priority in preparing those young people for the twenty-first century is to give them cultural and educational values that will enable each of them to prove themselves and their particularities in a new Iraq. In the past in Iraq, as in other nations that suffered under the ideologies of the twentieth century, the individual was suppressed by the masses, the masses by the revolution, the revolution by the party, and the party by the leader. The result was that the human being was lost under continuous layers of negation that obliterated his individuality, making him an object for consumption in an ostensible defence of the nation and in the name of the revolution, or to be sacrificed, body and soul, for the leader. The concerns of Iraqis are no different from those of all other peoples of the world. Iraqis are eager to define themselves and to project their singularity. The Iraq of tomorrow must recognize the individual citizen as the basis of sovereignty and the starting point for legislation. The rights of the individual are fundamental; the rights of the group derive from them. Iraqis, like other peoples, insist on their right to dignity, freedom, justice and peace. The assertion of such rights will build the foundations of tomorrow’s Iraq. The dignity of every Iraqi, without exception, must be guaranteed, without consideration for social status, political position or economic situation. An accused person will not lose his 29 dignity, even if found guilty. We will begin with dignity because the previous regime worked futilely to convince Iraqis that their dignity was an endowment from the ruler. Today, we stress that the dignity of the entire nation stems from the dignity of each citizen. As with dignity, so with freedom. Freedom is not a gift from the ruler or the State. Rather, it is a basic principle, the essence of a human being. Responsible freedom that does not impinge upon the liberties of others is the core of the social contract. Despite the excesses of outsiders and infiltrators since the fall of the repressive regime, Iraqis have proved to themselves that freedom means neither chaos nor the law of the jungle. The individual has an instinct for freedom, and thus he demands justice. The previous regime undermined justice and transformed it into a tool of the State to oppress and suppress the people. The new Iraq will be based on a firm justice system that ensures the independence and integrity of the judiciary. After the senseless wars that destroyed innumerable lives, leaving disaster in their wake, the new Iraq will adopt a new defensive policy based on peace. Iraq will be an activist for peace for the region and the world. The aforementioned four truths will form the foundation of Iraq’s political future. Iraq will abide strictly and explicitly by all human rights instruments, beginning with the Declaration of Human Rights, guaranteeing the right of man to life, property and the pursuit of happiness. We pledge that Iraqi laws and legislation apply equally to all the people. No person will be above the law for any reason, regardless of merit or individual responsibility. Indeed, there will be no distinction on the basis of religion, sect, race, language, ethnicity, gender, class or tribe. The defunct regime exploited those divisions for its own ends. The new Iraq will rely on justice and fairness. Iraqi women are capable of innovative excellence and productivity and can take on all the responsibilities of the nation. It is the duty of society and the State to remove any obstacles in their way. The constant dialogue that is required between Iraqi citizens and the State that represents and serves them will take place on the basis of an honest, democratic and representational system. This system is based on the principle of the separation of powers, and firmly upholds elections as the ultimate arbiter. We are not concerned with the dressings of democracy, but with the safety of the political system as the incarnation of the democratic spirit. The pillars of this system are, first and foremost, the separation of powers in the framework of a written constitution that avoids duplication in the judicial, legislative and executive powers. That will provide a sound basis for each to oversee the other. Secondly, accountability will be ensured as a result of such supervision and by means of elections that will provide for the participation of individuals in politics. Finally, civil society will be empowered by means of a free press, unions and independent institutions, which will act as monitors and critics and represent the plurality of political forces in the country. The third pillar is the upholding of transparency as a fundamental principle, based on the sovereignty of the individual citizen. The State exists to serve, and is answerable to the citizen, who is entitled to inquire into its affairs. The State does not have the right to withhold information on its affairs. The fourth pillar is recognition by the minority of the right of the majority to assume power, and the respect by the majority of the rights of the minority. Here, it is important to distinguish between a political majority and minority and a factional majority and minority. Political majorities and minorities are determined by the ballot box, not by a population census or random correlations. No one has the authority to arrogate to himself a political right on the basis of a presumed factional majority. We do not want a political, sectarian or national allocation in Iraq. A sound representative, federal political system can best express the interests of all Iraqi citizens in a manner that reflects their religion, creed, ethnicity or language. The previous period was characterized by restricting all power to an abusive few in Baghdad, but tomorrow’s Iraq will be based on the principle of local authority in the context of a federal union. Federalism as construed by Iraqis is not based on the division of the homeland; rather, it is a way of empowering and rehabilitating those living in different regions to take direct responsibility for their affairs in their own regions, without constant interference from the central Government. Our constitution charts the relationship between integrated and continuous local and national 30 authorities. We rely on the federal system, as we do on the democratic system, because we have a clear understanding of the relationship between the State and its citizens. This relationship is not one of guardianship, because the Iraqi citizen is not a minor and is therefore not in need of the State’s interference in all his affairs. Our concern is to ensure that this relationship is based on care, with the State being the vigilant servant of the citizen, and on nurturing in some areas, especially with regard to the provision of education and social and health services for young people. Complementing our belief in federalism, and in contrast with the vain and false nationalist excesses of the previous regime, we declare that Iraq is one nation, permanent and whole. Nothing in this declaration belittles the continuity of our Arab and Muslim heritage, or contradicts the sentiments of many Iraqis about their own culture and national identity. Rather, it confirms that all the territory of Iraq — from its mountains in the far north to its marshes and the Gulf in the extreme south, including its rivers, plains and deserts — is a lasting, indivisible unit. This is an expression not only of the true beliefs of most Iraqis, but also of a key political principle and point of reference that will help the country recognize realities on the ground and avoid further upheaval. While we seek to strengthen the rule of law and institutions of governance, we wish to make clear that authority emanates from the citizen who occupies the political position not from the political post itself. There must be a legal foundation in this respect, and decisions must not be taken because of the whims or opinions of a person in authority. The previous regime issued many arbitrary rules, regulations and decisions based on one man’s views. The alternative in tomorrow’s Iraq will be the application of the rule of law through sanctioned legislative authority that reflects the will of the Iraqi people, through an independent judiciary and under the supervision of an elected legal body. Last but not least, let me touch on the relationship between religion and State in the new Iraq. Islam is the religion of the overwhelming majority of Iraqis. It is vital to the Iraqi identity as well as to the State and the nature of governance. In any case, the great civilizational heritage and rich cultural repository of Islamic jurisprudence is, no doubt, one of Iraq’s assets, and we will benefit from it through a judiciary that is based on equality and pluralism. Let me point out a truth that is often overlooked: that the State, during the previous century, used religion for its own ends and took from it what suited those who had usurped power. They rejected the independence of institutions and of religious centres, taking over the Awqaf and imposing a religious terminology that suited their own interests, at the expense of those of others. In Iraq, religion is one of the most important assets of the individual and of society. We will not abandon it in any area, or reject its judicial, intellectual, behavioural or daily implications. We call for the rehabilitation of all religious institutions by enabling them to reassume their responsibilities in protecting Iraqi citizens who seek their moral and spiritual guidance without hypocritical political involvement. These are the main guidelines for what we want for our country. Our right today is to demand help and assistance from the world, thanking all those who stood by the Iraqis in their darkest hour and forgiving those who inadvertently did not stand with us. It is important for all nations of the world to acknowledge that what happened in Iraq — past atrocities and today’s reconstruction — reflects an ongoing and dramatic historical event. The international community must stand shoulder to shoulder with us. That is what we ourselves want and what we want from others on the road to a free, just and peaceful Iraq. We want an Iraq in which unity and plurality are two sides of the same coin. We want an Iraq that returns sovereignty to the individual citizen, not to the leader. We want an Iraq that is secure in its cultural and religious identity and engaged in open dialogue with the world. We want an Iraq that embraces its past while looking to the future — an Iraq that is at peace with itself, its neighbours and with the world. We want an Iraq that will eradicate all Ba’athists once and for all, bring all their officials to justice and prevent them from assuming power again. (spoke in English) I stand before the Assembly as the representative of a free Iraq. To all those here who helped us in our struggle for liberation, we extend our gratitude. Our 31 liberation would not have been achieved without the determination of President George W. Bush and the commitment of the coalition, at the forefront of which stand the people of the United States of American and Great Britain. The Iraqis will never forget their courage and sacrifice on our behalf. To those who stood with the dictator and who continued to question to intentions of the American and British Governments in undertaking this liberation — we invite you to come and visit the mass graves where half a million of our citizens lie. Come and visit the dried-up marshes, come and visit Halabja, where chemicals were dropped on civilians. Come and examine the lists of the disappeared, whose right to life was taken from them by Saddam Hussain, and we, the Iraqi people, will ask you why you chose to remain silent. We are here today to declare that a new Iraq has been born — an Iraq in which dignity, justice and human rights are assured for all citizens, an Iraq at peace with its people, its neighbours and the world, an Iraq that stands ready to regain its rightful place in the international community of free and proud nations. ﻿I would like at the outset to extend my sincerest congratulations to you, Sir, on your accession to the presidency of the General Assembly. It comes at a particularly difficult time, which I might even describe as painful, in the history of our Organization. Indeed, the past year has gravely challenged the capacities of the United Nations to manage the crisis in Iraq to its conclusion, a country to which it was accountable. It saw the pre-eminent role for the maintenance of international peace and security of this institution, symbol of multilateralism and stability, called into question. Yet, it is not our institution’s intrinsic capacity that is the cause of its powerlessness. It is essentially its Members’ lack of political determination. We cannot elude this vital debate for a peaceful, more harmonious and more just future indefinitely. Sooner or later, we must answer the essential question: How can we ensure that all Member States of the United Nations will be prepared to accept the binding nature of Security Council endorsements of military action prior to engaging in it? To make myself perfectly clear, and to avoid any misunderstanding, the question that I ask is as follows: What reforms need to be made to the Organization’s operations to placate the often-understandable apprehension or reticence of those who, because they assume specific political responsibilities, refuse to submit their geostrategic options to the rules of our Organization? As long as we remain unable to answer that question, we will continue to live in doubt and uncertainty, if not in helplessness. It is not a question of advocating an institutional shake-up of the Organization; rather debate should enable us to overcome the all-too-many misunderstandings that undermine the credibility of our shared instrument, and from which we can draw conclusions that will help us to make the Organization’s mechanisms more credible and up to date. The Security Council was founded on the recognition of the particular responsibility and role of some of our Members, and I fully subscribe to it. But should we not integrate new perspectives into this state of affairs, such as the regional dimension, present geopolitical facts and also new threats? This is in no way meant to contest the specific influence of some of those involved in international peace and security management. Rather, our concerted support could help accompany, legitimize and strengthen their approach and their effectiveness, thanks to the indisputably added value of multilateral dynamics. In many cases, this would avoid taking unnecessary risks and misunderstandings. In that regard, I think that, given its role as a global actor, the European Union greatly deserves a permanent seat on the Security Council on its own behalf. It is this conviction that has inspired my country’s position on the Iraq crisis. But now is not the time to determine who was right or who was wrong. All sides clearly had their reasons. One can only respect them for it. But it is now necessary to contribute to the re- establishment of stability and ensure Iraq’s reconstruction. That is the responsibility of us all, for it concerns a region neighbouring Europe, and we cannot tolerate, if only for the sake of our own security, increased instability or the persistence of an uncontrolled spiral of violence that feeds resentment towards the international community, which, as history has taught us, constitutes the principal breeding ground for terrorism. It is thus necessary to stop the violence as quickly as possible. To this end, I share the opinion of the Secretary-General and of many among us. It is necessary to restore as quickly as possible responsibility for governing Iraq to the people of Iraq. The return to sovereignty, under the watchful eye of the United Nations and of the international community as a whole, is capable of providing the salutary shock needed to reverse the current trend. We must convince the Iraqi people that national union, the re-establishment of State authority and economic recovery are accessible and at hand. This of course does not imply that the international community should demobilize. A strong military force in Iraq will still be necessary for some time to guarantee stability. It is of course up to the United States to assume its management. But from now on this presence must not be regarded as designed to occupy the country, but rather as a way to assist in the reconstruction process 34 for the sake of the Iraqi people. The Security Council resolution that is currently under discussion must create this prospect so as to insure broad participation by the international community. The United Nations has a central role to play in accompanying the political reconstruction process in Iraq, even if the tragic events of August have shown how risky and vulnerable that process is. However, such a role requires a clear mandate and sufficient means. I wish to renew my sincerest condolences to the Secretary-General, to the bereaved families and to colleagues, and express my high regard and admiration for all the United Nations staff members for their involvement, their selflessness and the sacrifices that they accept so steadfastly. The principal security threat is the uncontrollable proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their potential use by some States in breach of minimal ethical standards or by certain terrorist movements. That threat is serious. We must each confront the threat together, by shouldering our fair share of the actions undertaken. The European Union and its member States currently possess an essential document which deals with the European security strategy. It should enable us, as Javier Solana quite recently reminded us in Brussels, to plot a European chart of the challenges facing this world to better guarantee the effectiveness of our collective security system. Belgium will actively participate in this endeavour. Furthermore, we fully share the international community’s concerns about the nuclear programme of North Korea. We strongly call upon North Korea to abide by its previous international commitments. We are grateful to China for having offered a useful format for discussion in this respect. As for Iran, I trust that through a sustained and constructive dialogue it will meet the expectations of the international community and respond to the requests of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Belgium will continue to participate in a determined and proactive way in the international efforts that were initiated two years ago to track down terrorism. In Belgium, there is no sanctuary for terrorism, nor will there ever be. Nevertheless, the fight against terrorism should not be used as an abusive justification for actions that would undermine the democratic quality and the sacred principles of the rule of law. Furthermore, I am not one of those who believe that the military option is the exclusive answer, although obviously it should not be excluded. Much more fundamentally, we need to systematically attack the root causes of a phenomenon that is often rooted in the feeling of powerlessness or in feelings of real or perceived injustice. For this reason, Belgium will also continue to support, together with its European partners, the action of the Quartet for the re-establishment of peace between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. To achieve that goal, it is necessary that Palestinians decide unambiguously to renounce the toleration of blind violence and that Israel, in the same spirit, stop favouring the use of force. One has the impression that, as difficulties pile up, we have fallen back into the traps of Oslo: a gradualism of small steps and a too-pronounced reliance on sequencing. The road map prescribes parallel advances on the security, political and economic paths. From each side, we need to obtain bolder measures and the acceptance of the risks these imply. There is no alternative to the road map. It has not yet been implemented seriously. We believe it is particularly urgent to create a credible, on-site verification mechanism. It is in Africa, particularly in Central Africa, that my country commits itself in the most determined way to the restoration of peace and stability. We are encouraged by the successful installation of a transitional Government in Kinshasa that now brings together all the parties. Now, State structures have to be restored and good governance has to be introduced in order to allow for the return of foreign aid and investment. The persisting violence in the east of the country must end. In this context, I wish to mention the remarkable efforts by the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC). I am particularly happy about the success of Operation Artemis. Apart from restoring security in Bunia, this operation has given MONUC the thrust it needed to be able to face up to the challenges of its new mandate. 35 Now, priority must be given to the preparation of elections in order to grant the Democratic Republic of the Congo a new start on a solid basis and to consolidate its restored territorial integrity. Belgium will be present at all levels and in every phase of this process. But I wish to insist on the fact that the Democratic Republic of the Congo needs the determined commitment of all the instruments of our community. It would be unforgivable not to forge, here and now, the conditions for a complete stabilization of the entire region. We also need to help Rwanda to continue its national reconciliation efforts, which are indispensable in order to guarantee sustainable stability in that fragile country. I am convinced the recent elections will contribute to this goal. As for Burundi, the implementation of the Arusha Agreements must continue, and the rebels have to be convinced that they should join this process. My country looks forward to participating actively in the new action on Burundi decided by the Economic and Social Council. We hope that will help Burundi to break through its isolation within the international community. Finally, my country closely follows the efforts by the United Nations to reactivate the project for a Great Lakes conference, which should seal the re- establishment of peaceful relations and the development of cross-border cooperation among the countries of the region. The credibility of the United Nations does not depend only on its willingness and capacity to manage crises. It also depends on its capacity to respond to the expectations of men, women and children all over the world, who are directly or indirectly confronted with imbalances and injustice whose causes and solutions both are found only at the global level. It is essential to master globalization, develop the promises it offers and correct its excesses. It is clear that, in accordance with the analysis of the Secretary-General, this challenge requires fundamental reflection on the architecture of the major instruments of development. That demands openness of mind and should not exclude any option from the start. Has not the time come to reinforce the capacity of the United Nations to act effectively in this field? I wish to repeat a question that I raised at the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in Cancún. Should we not, for example, create a real Economic and Social Security Council, which would derive its legitimacy and efficiency from law and which would have the same power in the management of economic, social and environmental policies as the Security Council has on issues of peace? That is my conviction, especially since those fields form the requisite backdrop to achieving stability and security. The Economic and Social Council needs to be reformed to give it a more decisive operational role in the control of a world organization based on universal principles of equity. This goal should lead to broad and balanced synergies between international organizations such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organization and the International Labour Organization, which should really become instruments of the same project. The founding principles of such a concept exist already and are being applied in certain countries, such as in mine. I am referring more specifically to fundamental labour standards such as the freedom of unions, the prohibition of child labour and forced labour and the right to quality employment, as well as environmental obligations, which are vital for sustainable development. I am also thinking of the need to exclude services of general interest from the market sphere. To conclude, it seems to me that such an ambition would opportunely translate the tremendous hope generated by the Millennium Summit. The Millennium Declaration clearly defined the goals at our level. I am pleased with the decision of the General Assembly to make the five-year review of the Millennium Summit in 2005 into an important event, which I think should be a summit of heads of State and Government. That summit should assess the implementation not only of the Millennium Goals, but also of the goals of all the major United Nations conferences. But the success of that summit implies going further. It should at last boldly lay the foundation for a world in which inequalities between poor and rich countries can be filled in a sustainable way. It should nourish, in an irreversible way, the indispensable confidence the world needs to be safer, more human and more brotherly.  ﻿I have the honour to make the following statement on behalf of His Excellency Mr. Erkki Tuomioja, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Finland. Multilateralism and the United Nations have gone through a trying time since the last session of the General Assembly began. At the same time that multilateralism has been challenged by unilateral actions, it has been proved that multilateralism and multilateral cooperation — as well as the United Nations — are needed, perhaps more than ever before. The discussions at the World Trade Organization Ministerial Meeting in Cancún also point to the need for open and broad discussions on preserving a multilateral trading system based on mutually agreed rules. International cooperation is needed in crisis management and prevention, in disarmament and arms control, in promoting human rights and international law in general, in enhancing sustainable development, in strengthening global governance with regard to environmental issues and in creating coherence and cooperation on economic and social issues, among other things. In order to do this, a more efficient and effective United Nations is needed. The United Nations system must deliver solutions to increasingly complicated challenges, be it Iraq, the Middle East, coherence between trade and development, or financing for development. Through their political will, Member States should give the United Nations the support it requires in order for it to be a true actor in world affairs. We need to be more efficient and more result- oriented. The development and strengthening of the United Nations pose a major challenge at this particular juncture. United Nations structures — the Security Council included — require reform, and the whole Organization requires better resources. This is a prerequisite also for a comprehensive implementation of the Millennium Declaration, which forms a demanding agenda for the United Nations for years to come. Despite different emphases and definitions given to freedom of action or joint actions, all the prerequisites exist for strengthening multilateral cooperation. As a member of the European Union, Finland is involved in the discussion on the significance of multilateralism and on the terms for promoting global security. This, too, should be one of the main topics in this session of the Assembly. In addition to what was said in the Italy’s statement on behalf of the European Union, I should like to focus on two issues that require multilateral cooperation in particular: the issue of harnessing globalization and that of weapons of mass destruction. The biggest challenges in the future will be those to international peace and security, which become broader and broader in their scope, and the globalization process, as well as managing these two together through multilateral cooperation. Globalization affects everyone. Some can benefit from it. Some become more marginalized by it. Globalization stems from a countless number of decisions made in the private sector and beneath or outside public institutions. But we must be able to influence, through the United Nations and other international organizations, corporate and public sector decisions that direct globalization. There are many ongoing processes that try to make globalization more inclusive and allow everybody to share its benefits. The Finnish Government, together with the Tanzanian Government, is launching the Helsinki Process on globalization and democracy. Ultimately, the global governance pursued by the Helsinki Process is characterized by the democratization of international 20 relations, by the way that globalization and its by- products can be managed through more equal participation in deciding on international rules and norms. One of the key tasks of the process will be to devise and develop new solutions for global problems. We will also focus on the global economic agenda and on human security. The international players in globalization include, in addition to States and multinational companies, the continually growing network of non-governmental organizations. Many of those organizations take a critical or negative stand on globalization, but do not hesitate to adopt procedures that are characteristic of globalization or to build networks across national borders. Out of a vast array of organizations, I could name two that are perceived as opposite: the World Economic Forum and the World Social Forum. Both, however, are concerned with the same challenges in the same world. One of the aims of the Helsinki Process is to bring these two processes closer to each other. A global approach to international peace and security and a multilateral security system based on cooperation are largely axiomatic principles for Finland and for our partners in the European Union. But security problems linked to globalization, and solutions to them, threaten to divide the international community. Peace is much more than the absence of war nowadays. Development and peace are inseparably intertwined, and both of them are being affected by globalization. Another major issue that requires multilateral cooperation is weapons of mass destruction and prevention of their proliferation. Effective global governance requires universally agreed norms and rules setting standards for behaviour to be followed by all States as well as by non-State actors. Proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery is clearly an issue that affects the international community as a whole. No State can ignore these dangers. Today more than ever, we need to step up our collective efforts to halt the proliferation worldwide. The most effective way to address global security threats is the multilateral system of binding international agreements. The existing system of treaties, built over the decades, needs to be strengthened, not weakened. We need to reinforce our commitment to the prohibition of chemical and biological weapons and to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons, with the objective of their total elimination. Promoting adherence to multilateral treaties and obligations is not enough. It is equally important to ensure that commitments are fully implemented. The international community cannot tolerate precedents of non-compliance with the legal undertakings, which would put at stake the whole non-proliferation regime. In cases where States have difficulties in implementing treaty obligations due to lack of legal or technical verification expertise, appropriate support and assistance should be offered by the relevant organizations and participating States. The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty remains the cornerstone of our efforts to curb the spread of nuclear weapons. In our view, the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty constitutes an essential and irreplaceable building block for containing the proliferation of nuclear weapons, thus contributing to nuclear disarmament. Finland attaches great importance to its entry into force. We urge all States that have not yet done so to sign and ratify it as soon as possible. In combating the spread of weapons of mass destruction, new initiatives and new approaches are called for. In order to complement international instruments, we need fresh perspectives on how to confront the problem of weapons of mass destruction. Finland welcomes new efforts, open to all, such as the G-8 Global Partnership against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction. The United Nations and in particular the Security Council have the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. Finland is in favour of enhancing the role of the United Nations in issues related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We agree with the Secretary-General that the United Nations and the Security Council should look at the enforcement of regimes against weapons of mass destruction. The United Nations has valuable expertise and experience in verification. Finland believes that this verification and inspection competence should be maintained. By focusing on weapons of mass destruction, I do not want to suggest that small arms are any less dangerous. They need due and growing attention by the international community. In some countries and in 21 some crises small arms are a means of massive destruction and a major cause of loss of life, mostly of civilians. The multilateral institutions should respond to new challenges. Being multilateral is not sufficient in itself. In the work of the General Assembly Finland underlines the importance of setting clear priorities, tackling the issues that are most relevant in today’s security environment. People throughout the world might find it difficult to understand the Organization’s trying to resolve the problems of yesterday’s world. Before concluding, let me express my Government’s deep satisfaction with the fact that the International Criminal Court (ICC) has become a reality and is operational. The ICC is the cornerstone of efforts to enhance respect for international humanitarian law and human rights. We remain committed to ensuring the Court’s success and appeal to States which have not yet ratified the Rome Statute to become parties to it. ﻿Permit me at the outset to express to Assembly President Julian Hunte the congratulations of my country, Gabon, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. Indeed, his election has symbolic value, since, through him, Saint Lucia has become — as he himself said — the smallest country ever to have occupied that high office. Is that not a perfect illustration of the universal vocation of the Organization, which recognizes the equality and rights of all its Members, small and large, but also their common responsibility in the conduct of the world’s affairs? Gabon expresses to him its wishes for success in leading this session, and we assure him of our full cooperation. We also congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan, who preceded Mr. Hunte in his office, on the work that he accomplished. In addition, we thank the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the self-sacrifice and 25 courage with which he is leading the Organization at this time of grave world turbulence. The extreme seriousness of the situation facing the world today sometimes leads the United Nations, when States are unable to carry out responsibilities that in principle devolve to them, to assume those responsibilities. As the United Nations carries out its difficult mission, its authority, unfortunately, is quite often sorely tested, and the very lives of its personnel are threatened. The tragic death of Sergio Vieira de Mello, one of the torch-bearers of the ideals of the United Nations, and other staff members in Baghdad on 19 August is a dreadful reminder of just how fragile international peace and security are. Nevertheless, despite the delicate nature of the situation, the activities of the United Nations must be pursued in Iraq to assist in the reconstruction of the country. Beyond Iraq, the future of the entire Middle East region must be at the centre of all our attention. The road map remains, despite current threats to its enforcement, the sole hope to restore peace between the parties to the conflict and sustainable regional balance to the Middle East. Gabon urges the two parties to end the violence and resume their dialogue. Despite the persistence of some hotbeds of tension, the overall situation in Africa has witnessed positive changes. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the peace process has begun to be implemented with the creation in June 2003 of a Transitional Government, whose chief mission is the establishment of new democratic institutions and preparations for elections. It goes without saying that the security and stability of the country continues to depend on that of the entire Great Lakes region. This is why Gabon ardently desires the completion of the Arusha process in Burundi. After a period of uncertainty, the Central African Republic is also restoring peace, particularly thanks to specific pacification measures taken by the country’s new authorities. To complement their efforts, the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, which met in Libreville in June 2003, decided to make an ad hoc contribution of 5 billion francs CFA to the Central African Republic. For its part, Gabon has always actively worked for peacekeeping and peace-building in Africa. This was recently demonstrated again in Sâo Tomé and Principe, where the good offices of President Bongo and his African peers, particularly those from the Economic Community of Central African States, contributed to the restoration of constitutional order in the country. Unfortunately, these welcome events are at variance with our inability to react promptly to some crisis situations that jeopardize collective security and cause gross violations of human rights. We must assume a two-fold duty today: to strengthen our collective means of conflict prevention and, when those efforts do not obtain results, to have the capacity to react swiftly to contain armed conflicts before their escalation brings about new humanitarian disasters, as was recently the case in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Liberia. African countries have shown their ability to manage crises on many occasions. But their will is most often impeded by the scarcity of human resources and lack of appropriate logistical means. To facilitate the prompt deployment of peacekeeping forces in these regions, should we not establish, under the auspices of the United Nation, a partnership between African countries and the developed countries that provide logistical support. Because many conflicts are rooted in poverty, any effort to resolve them must be based on the quest for efficient solutions to the problems inherent in underdevelopment. The Monterrey Consensus, reaffirmed during the Johannesburg Summit, is based on the recognition that financing for development is a crucial element for an international strategy for sustainable development. The drop in private international investment in developing countries is liable to hinder them from truly recovering. Moreover, many of these countries, in particular those known as medium-income countries like Gabon, continue to devote huge resources to repay external debt. Gabon remains convinced that only a courageous strategy to defer or cancel debt would enable the economic recovery of the countries involved. The HIV/AIDS pandemic, which has become a development problem, also deserves our attention. The disease is now the leading cause of death among women and the young in Africa. In other words, its main victims are our nations’ hope. We welcome the 26 fact that the high-level plenary debate that took place last week at United Nations Headquarters itself reaffirmed the commitment of the international community to combat this horrifying disease. The ills that the world is facing should prompt us to identify the structural causes and find the best way to respond. This is particularly true with respect to the fight against international terrorism. One vital stage in this process is the establishment of a legal framework conducive to effective international cooperation. We must finalize without delay the negotiations to adopt a universal convention against international terrorism in all its forms, including the issue of the acquisition of arsenals of weapons of mass destruction by terrorist groups. The positive forces that drive our world towards greater integration and solidarity are increasingly jeopardized by growing threats. Because the new challenges of our world have a global impact, we must respond collectively. Only close coordination and active multilateral cooperation will enable us to meet them. It is within the United Nations, a high-level forum for dialogue and cooperation, that we can achieve this objective. To do so, as we have stressed during the previous session, we must strengthen our Organization, particularly by restoring the role of the General Assembly and reforming the Security Council. We agree on the principle. May we thus have the courage and will to harmonize our views to attain this ideal of change and strengthen the multilateral dimension of our Organization.  ﻿It gives me great pleasure to deliver this statement on behalf of His Excellency Rene Harris, President and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Nauru, who had to cancel his trip to New York at the last minute due to pressing matters at home. President Harris has asked me to convey to Mr. Julian Hunte warmest congratulations on his assumption of the stewardship of the Assembly. As a small island developing State, Nauru is extremely proud to be associated with the Caribbean Community on Mr. Hunte’s marvellous achievement, which gives us hope that we in the Pacific will also have the opportunity to preside over the Assembly. My delegation would like, through him, to commend His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, for his excellent leadership and the great efforts that he made, particularly in tackling the difficult issues that have plagued the revitalization of the General Assembly as the premier organ of the United Nations. The President has pledged to continue the good work that has been done in these areas, and he can count on Nauru’s full cooperation. Peace and security — or, more correctly, the lack of it — is still the main focus of the United Nations 58 years after its inception. In the past 24 months, we have seen the internationalization of terrorism manifest itself out of a cocktail of hatred, desperation and fanaticism that has spread its tentacles from the Middle East into the international arena. It is unconventional, clandestine, and indiscriminate with respect to its victims. We are also seeing an increase in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction after a period of relative calm, and this is further exacerbating the situation. The sum of these two nightmarish threats is a cause for concern, and States that feel uniquely vulnerable to terrorist acts are considering the real possibility of terrorists gaining access to weapons of mass destruction. That scenario has forced such States to develop the antidote of unilateral action primed with a pre-emptive strike policy. We saw it in action in Afghanistan and, six months ago in Iraq, just as President Bush said we would if the Security Council failed to walk the talk of resolution 1441 (2002), which called for the disarmament by Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction. Nauru is disappointed that President Bush did not refer in his statement last week to the status of the coalition’s search for stockpiles of these weapons, and we are puzzled as to why it is hard to find them when intelligence indicated that the Iraqis could arm and unleash them so as to hit the United Kingdom within 45 minutes. My delegation considers the antidote to which I referred to be the catalyst in the new wave of nuclear weapons proliferation, and it is not a coincidence that the countries singled out as part of the “axis of evil” are being accused of developing nuclear weapons. Nauru joins the appeal to the countries concerned to observe their obligations under the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to allow the International Atomic Energy Agency to carry out inspections and verify that nuclear weapons are not being developed. In all of this, we are certain of one thing: that the major casualty of the current state of affairs is the innocence of the United Nations, which was mortally wounded in Baghdad when the lives of 22 dedicated United Nations servants were lost, including that of the 22 revered Sergio Vieira de Mello, and more than 100 were injured. The people of Nauru join the United Nations family in mourning the victims of that tragedy, and our heartfelt condolences go to the bereaved families. That despicable act of terror has cast a shadow over the safety and security of United Nations personnel everywhere. The clarity of its emblem, which stood for tolerance, hope and impartiality and which had acted as a shield against attack, may have been blurred by its subservient role to the administering force in Iraq. In the light of the facts before us, Nauru fully agrees with the assessment made by the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in his bold and gutsy statement that the Organization has “come to a fork in the road” and that we are in a moment of time that is “no less decisive than 1945 itself, when the United Nations was founded.” (A/58/PV.7, p. 3) Nauru fully supports the proposal to establish a high-level panel of eminent personalities to review threats to peace and security and other global challenges insofar as these may influence or be connected with such threats. Nauru strongly believes in multilateralism as a key tool in resolving contemporary problems in all of their complexity. The Security Council should be at the centre of our collective efforts in maintaining peace and resolving conflict. At the same time, the Council must have at its disposal the means of making evaluations and taking collective action. Most importantly, it must have the will to act quickly and decisively, not only to threats to peace and security, but to genocide and other massive violations of human rights. Nauru is pleased to see the rapid progression towards making the International Criminal Court operational since its Statute came into force in July 2001. We believe that the objectives of the Court make it a useful addition to the international tool kit for the preservation of peace, as perpetrators of atrocious acts in armed conflict have been put on notice that they will be held accountable for their acts or omissions. As a small island developing State in the Pacific Ocean, Nauru aligns itself with the statements of the leaders of the Pacific nations who have spoken before me on the concerns and challenges that we, the small- island-big-ocean developing States are facing, now and in the future. Nauru bears all the unique characteristics of a small island State, given our small size, in terms of both land area and population, our remoteness and our vulnerability to exogenous forces, be they man-made or natural. In 1994, the world community agreed that small island developing States warranted special consideration with regard to their economic and social development because of the unique set of characteristics that are inherent in each island country, and it was to address those unique problems that the Barbados Plan of Action was created. As His Royal Highness the Prime Minister of Tonga stated in his intervention, the road to sustainable development for small island developing States is posted with signs of undertakings, as we marched from Barbados in 1994 to New York in 1999 for the five- year review, then on to Monterrey in 2002 for the International Conference on Financing for Development, where more signs were posted saying that internal self-help, good governance and trade were the key to poverty alleviation, and that subscription to those cures would provide the way for developed countries to come in and help. Most, if not all, of the small island developing States have been taking this medicine for a long time, and we have yet to see the doctor. In Johannesburg, a whole chapter was devoted to the cause of the small island developing States. In April of this year, the Commission on Sustainable Development paved the way for an international meeting to be held in Mauritius in 2004. Yet despite all these signs of good intentions, the reality is that, when small island developing States try to see that these decisions or undertakings are reflected in other international forums, our proposals in most cases are either rejected or rendered impotent after intense and difficult negotiations. The Cancún meeting is a good example, as is the recent meeting of Convention bodies such as the Eighth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in New Delhi in 2002, and the Sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, held in Havana recently. This undesirable situation needs to be addressed if small island developing States are to benefit from the positive outcomes of international meetings or review conferences. 23 As we march towards Mauritius, small island developing States will have to endure due process in the Second Committee and at the twelfth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development in order to establish administrative and financial norms for the international meeting. My delegation suspects that there will be many bumps and detours on the way, but our hope is that, at the end of the road, the outcome will focus on what needs to be done — when and by whom — to overcome impediments in the implementation of the Programme of Action. It is not sufficient to rely solely on the Barbados Programme of Action to address all the development problems of small island developing States. To that end, Nauru sees the Millennium Development Goals as supplementing the Programme of Action by adding the human development dimension to the scope of issues that should be addressed and by offering partnership to drive the process. However, for small island States like Nauru, the complex reporting requirement of the Goals is adding to the burden of reports that we are required to prepare, and therefore it is the considered view of my delegation that the United Nations Development Programme should tailor the questionnaire to suit a group of clients rather than use a one-size-fits-all approach. Assistance also should be provided to countries such as Nauru to collect and process the raw data required for the report. Nauru, like other low-lying small island States, sees the Kyoto Protocol as its salvation from sea-level rise and climate change, which would devastate our already fragile ecological system, which is essential to our livelihood and culture. My delegation understands that the Russian Federation now stands between the Kyoto Protocol’s coming into force and its continuing to languish. If that is the case, then Nauru calls on the Russian Federation to do what is universally right and just by ratifying the protocol before the meeting of the Ninth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Italy in December this year. A healthy Pacific Ocean and the sustainable use of its natural resources, including highly migratory fish stocks, are also critical to our livelihood. We in the Pacific have walked the talk on these issues through the development of an ocean policy to guide us in the management of our part of the Pacific Ocean and to form the framework for future regional ocean-related initiatives. Secondly, we have adopted a Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean, which provides a comprehensive regime for the management of the region’s highly migratory fish stocks, both in our exclusive economic zone and in the high seas. The trans-shipment of nuclear waste through our waters is of great concern to many island countries because of the damage it could cause. My delegation has stated during previous debates that it agrees fully with the proposal to reform the Security Council to bring it into tune with the realities of today’s world order. We are disappointed that, after 10 years of debate, there is still no convergence of views between the two camps on how to move forward. To try to address the expansion along with the question of the veto would be like riding a dead horse — we would not go anywhere, which is exactly the situation we are in. Furthermore, my delegation believes that we have done all we can do at the representative level, and that the only way we can make progress is to take it to a higher level, so that our political leaders can review what we have done and make a decision on how to move forward. On the question of reforms to operational policies and administrative structures, including budgetary aspects of the United Nations, my delegation fully supports the actions taken by the Secretary-General in this regard, but it appears that much more has to be done. The areas of review have to be enlarged and intensified, if indeed the prediction that the regular budget is going to exceed the $3 billion mark is correct. Finally, concerning reform, my delegation fully supports the view expressed by Australia that the group system needs modernization. Most of the Pacific small island countries are buried in the Asian group, which extends from the Pacific Ocean to the Suez Canal, while our big brothers, Australia and New Zealand, are “Others” in the Western European group. Outside the United Nations system, the Pacific is usually grouped with East Asia, in both economic and geopolitical zoning. We see no reason why this cannot be the case 24 at the United Nations, considering that the divide between Eastern and Western Europe will become meaningless as the two converge. Nauru, because of biased and incorrect media reports over the last five years, now carries a stigma as a haven for money-laundering through offshore banks registered in Nauru. There have also been reports that our Citizen Investment Programme is aiding and abetting criminals and terrorists, allowing them free movement by making possible the acquisition of Nauruan passports. The reluctance of foreign authorities to provide proof of allegations of criminal activities by banks registered in Nauru prevented the Government from initiating the mechanism provided for in our legislation to release information on offshore banks to foreign authorities. This has put us on a collision course. Nauru was not surprised when, in 2000, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) listed it along with others as a non-cooperating country. The following year, Nauru’s status was further downgraded, and it was put on the list for “countermeasures” by members of FATF, not because our laws were insufficient, but because the goalposts were shifted and our failure involved a lack of capacity and capability to supervise the offshore banks registered in Nauru. In December 2002, the United States Government, in taking up FATF’s call to apply countermeasures against Nauru, announced that Nauru would be designated a “money-laundering” country under the provisions of the Patriotic Act. The highest level of sanctions would be applied, which would prohibit all commercial and financial transactions between any Nauru-registered financial institution and the United States. In May 2003 Nauru was accordingly informed and was given 30 days to show cause as to why the sanction should not be applied. Nauru submitted its comments, passed new laws in March of this year repealing the registration of offshore banks, and included a sunset clause terminating the licenses that would come into effect 30 to 180 days — as the case may be — from 27 March 2003, when the law came into force. The Government has also suspended the Citizen Investment Programme while it reviews the law, in order to address the concerns expressed by the United States Department of State. A new anti-money-laundering law was passed in March, and work is in progress on omnibus legislation that would address the financing of terrorism, transnational organized crime and money-laundering. Nauru also signed an article 98 agreement with the United States. In the process, Nauru has lost close to $2 million, if not more, in revenue, which is a drop in the ocean to OECD members but real money to us, considering that it is equivalent to 5 per cent of the Government’s annual budget. We are now waiting to learn our fate — awaiting the judgement of the United States and the FATF, as the two are interlinked. To conclude, Nauru, small as it is, believes that power consists in a nation’s capacity to link its will with the purpose of others, to lead by reason and give the gift of cooperation.  ﻿In the early morning of 11 September 2003, our Foreign Minister Anna Lindh died, murdered in a senseless crime. One of Sweden’s most prominent and respected leaders is gone. We have lost a part of our future. She spoke for the oppressed, for the victims of human rights violations. She worked for international peace and justice and for multilateral cooperation. The voice of Anna Lindh has been silenced, but her burning conviction echoes with us. We meet at a time when the United Nations is facing difficulties and doubts. The capability of the United Nations has often been in question. Despite crises and shortcomings, the United Nations has always withstood these tests. The United Nations was indispensable in 1945 and it still is. Global security cannot be achieved by unilateral action. Locking ourselves in will not bring peace, development, democracy or respect for human rights. We must work together to define and address emerging challenges for multilateral solutions. The Secretary-General recently said: “We can no longer take it for granted that our multilateral institutions are strong enough to cope with all the challenges facing them”. (A/58/323, para. 4) I welcome Kofi Annan’s challenge to us. The Nordic countries stand behind him. The United Nations and we, the Member States, must adapt. Reform is necessary to stay modern, responsive and efficient and to retain the trust of global civil society. International solidarity must be in focus when redefining our common agenda. Attaining the goals of the Millennium Declaration is a shared responsibility. The legitimacy and authority of the Security Council must be regained. Its composition must better reflect the world of today. I believe that an agreement on enlargement with a number of non-permanent members could be reached fairly quickly, without excluding the possibility of additional permanent members at a later stage. We welcome the Secretary-General’s intention of establishing a high-level panel to consider threats to our security and the institutional reforms required for the United Nations to respond. North Korea has withdrawn from the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and remains unclear about its intentions. The nuclear programme in Iran, the possession of nuclear weapons by India and Pakistan, and Israel’s refusal to sign the NPT continue to cause concern. In several countries, nuclear weapons are accorded a growing importance in military doctrines. Discussions in the United States about the creation of a new generation of smaller nuclear arms are worrying to us. Such weapons would not contribute to a safer world, but risk lowering the threshold for the use of nuclear weapons. The threats from weapons of mass destruction can only be met by multilateral efforts. The negative arms spiral must be reversed. The non-proliferation Treaty must be universally complied with. Sweden continues to work for this goal, together with its partners in the New Agenda Coalition. We need new ideas on disarmament and non- proliferation and on how to strengthen existing regimes. To this aim, Sweden has initiated an independent, international commission chaired by Mr. Hans Blix. Last June, the General Assembly adopted a forward-looking resolution on the prevention of armed 33 conflict. Sweden will continue to work for a strengthening of the capacity of the United Nations practical preventive work. Our focus must be the security of the individual. Violations of human rights can never be accepted. State sovereignty also implies responsibility. If Governments fail to protect their people, the international community must be prepared to act. In its report The Responsibility to Protect, the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty points out important issues for the international community to take on. How can we make sure that sovereignty and independence never become a license to abuse people? How should the international community live up to its responsibility when States fail to protect their people? We must make full use of instruments available to avoid war. The Security Council must be ready to act on early warning signals on threats of mass violations of human rights. Mechanisms to prevent such situations may be intrusive in character and need to be strengthened based on accountability and international law. As the Secretary-General said in his speech on Tuesday, the Security Council needs seriously to discuss the best way to respond to threats of genocide or other comparable massive violations of human rights. Prevention of genocide will be the topic for the Stockholm International Forum to be held in my country in January. There must be an end to impunity. The International Criminal Court is now operational. The Court will act as a deterrent to perpetrators and a universal and equal tool for justice. Two years ago, Foreign Minister Anna Lindh was accompanied to the General Assembly by her then 11- year-old son David. When he entered the Hall, he asked: “Mom, where are all the women?” He saw what many of us seem blind to. There are too few women here, as in very many decision-making bodies around the world. Gender equality is about making use of all human resources. Women are strong, but they are made vulnerable through legal, economic and social discrimination. Women are made victims of violence in war, of abuse at home, of trafficking, of sexual exploitation. For these women, gender equality is a question of life and death. Women’s equal rights to education, to a professional career and to participate in politics are not a threat to us men. The absence of these rights is a threat to the progress of mankind. Peace operations require joint efforts to be successful. The cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations, such as the recent experience in the Democratic Republic of Congo — President Kabila’s discussion of which the other day we listened to very carefully — the European Union- led police mission in the Western Balkans and the military operation in Macedonia, are all examples of this. We will continue developing the cooperation between the United Nations and the European Union and welcome the political declaration on crisis management. Many painful lessons can be drawn from the violent conflicts in West Africa. Sweden welcomes the large and broadly based United Nations peacekeeping Mission in Liberia. The international community must support the United Nations and the Economic Community of West African States in finding sustainable solutions for the entire region. The European Union is trying to strengthen such a partnership through the work of Hans Dahlgren, its Special Representative to the Mano River Union countries. Women are crucial to peace and reconciliation. I welcome the fact that gender perspectives are now being incorporated into mandates and activities of all peacekeeping missions. The number of women in peace operations at all levels should increase. The implementation of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) and the strengthening of the United Nations capacity in this field are vital. The decision to cut poverty by half by 2015 is imperative, but we are not doing well enough. The pace at which the goal is being realized is far too slow. We now need new financial mechanisms and partnerships. In this spirit, we welcome the initiative presented a few days ago by the President of Brazil. Official development assistance needs to treble. In Monterrey, the States members of the European Union agreed to increase official development assistance. Sweden is increasing its assistance to 0.86 per cent of its gross domestic product next year. Pledges must be followed by real cash money. We need to give the United Nations predictable, long-term financing. I entirely agree with what President Chirac said a few days ago: “Failing that, we will end up with a pick-and-choose United Nations”. (A/58/PV.7) 34 The main responsibility for development is borne by every country itself in promoting democracy, good governance and respect of human rights. Official development assistance will always only be supplementary, as we all know. More important is the promotion of open and fair trade rules, the dismantling of tariffs and the reduction of subsidies. We expect the developed countries to show the way and to bring forward the Doha Development Agenda. Indeed, we must all see to it that the setback in the trade negotiations in Cancún is turned into a new start. The Swedish Government presented a new bill in May this year on a coherent policy for global development. This is our way of translating the Millennium Declaration into national policy. We will put particular emphasis on the commitment to the eighth Millennium Development Goal, which is specifically about the obligations of the rich countries. The consequences of climate change affect us all. The deterioration of the Kyoto Protocol must be halted. We need a global system for migration that protects immigrant’s rights and provides security for people who cross borders to study, research or work. Sweden and Switzerland support the Secretary-General in wishing to strengthen the role of migration on the United Nations agenda, including the establishment of a global commission on migration and development. The General Assembly has rightly condemned the Israeli decision to deport President Arafat. Both parties must implement their obligations in accordance with the road map. We urge the Palestinian Authority to take action to cease the suicide bombings. Israel’s extrajudicial killings are contradictory to international law and must be stopped immediately. The international community must do its utmost to assist the parties in the peace process. The road map, as Jack Straw pointed out only a few minutes ago, should be implemented immediately with a view to the establishment of a peaceful and democratic Palestinian State in 2005. International monitors and observers should be sent to the area and Sweden is willing to take part in such a monitoring mechanism. Sergio Vieira de Mello and many of his colleagues lost their lives in the bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad about a month ago, a terrible loss for the international community. Sergio Vieira de Mello personified, better than most, the strength and commitment of the international community at its best. The situation in Iraq remains volatile and dangerous. We are concerned about the security of the Iraqi people and of those who are in Iraq to ease their suffering. The bombing in Baghdad was aimed at the purposes that the United Nations stands for — to maintain international peace and security. It will not make us waiver. The United Nations will stay in Iraq. The international community needs the legitimacy of the United Nations as the only authority to be derived from in helping the Iraqi people recover self- government and rebuild their country. The handling of the conflict must remain an exception and not become a rule. The future of the United Nations now lies in the hands of the Member States. If the United Nations fails, we all fail. In the statements most referred to so far in this year’s debate, the media have competed in finding differences and disputes, but there is one thing that we all agree on. That is the belief in our United Nations. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has the world behind him.﻿Let me first pay tribute to the commitment and the courage of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Sergio Vieira de Mello, and all the United Nations staff members who lost their lives in the unprecedented attack on United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. The date of 19 August is engraved in the consciousness of the international community and in the annals of the United Nations. We were forced to face a fact that we have not tackled with the necessary determination in the past: the vulnerability of United Nations staff worldwide. While legal protection can certainly not prevent an attack such as the one of 19 August, we must nevertheless provide the best possible protection in this respect. We therefore hope that the General Assembly will take the necessary measures to make the 23 United Nations Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel more effective. The process that led to this engagement of the United Nations in Iraq constituted a major crisis for the existing mechanisms dealing with threats to international peace and security, first and foremost the Security Council. This Organization is subject to and dependent on the political will of its Members. Its distinctive quality lies in the fact that it provides legitimacy in accordance with international law. This outstanding quality it must not lose, and we are all challenged to stand up for this core function of the United Nations, which is a good part of its raison d''tre in today's world. The crisis the United Nations has gone through in connection with the action taken against Iraq will not be overcome simply by adopting a pragmatic approach in dealing with the aftermath thereof. We welcome the ongoing discussions in the Security Council on a stronger and more meaningful role of the United Nations in Iraq. At the same time, there must also be a recognition that international law continues to be the foundation for our actions in dealing with problems of international peace and security and that the rule of law needs to be applied both at the national and at the international levels. Like any other State, in particular small States, Liechtenstein attaches the highest possible priority to the rule of international law expressed, inter alia, in our commitment to the International Criminal Court and international relations that are based on rules derived from international legal standards. The United Nations, as the core body for drafting and adopting those standards, must continue to play its role in defending and upholding them. It is more obvious than ever that the Security Council is facing a particular challenge in this respect. While discussions in the media, in the academic world and in think tanks after the military action against Iraq invariably have focused on the theme of the need for quick and effective Security Council reform, this sense of urgency was lost on the Open-ended Working Group on Security Council Reform the very body that has the competence to make decisions on such reform. After 10 years of debate on this issue, we all appreciate the difficulties attached to it, and they are indeed big. However, these difficulties are not sufficient justification for our failure to resolve an issue that everybody agrees is a major obstacle to the effective functioning of the Organization as a whole. It was therefore rather disturbing to see the Open-ended Working Group continue engaging in business as usual, while the world the world we are supposed to represent, after all unanimously called for effective and comprehensive reform. The composition of the Council is clearly a reflection of a geopolitical reality that ceased to exist a long time ago and enlargement thus continues to be an indispensable element of a meaningful reform of the Council. At the same time, there is also a clear need to address other issues, such as the mechanisms for decision-making and in particular the implementation of Security Council resolutions whether adopted under Chapter VI or Chapter VII and issues of legality. We hope that the initiative the Secretary- General presented last week will contribute to making the main organ that is at the centre of the world's attention a more effective and representative body. While the work on Security Council reform has been slow and unsatisfactory overall, it has nevertheless produced some important and positive results. The Council has opened up to the membership as a whole and increasingly engaged in open debates, both on thematic and on other issues of concern to the membership as a whole. Liechtenstein welcomes this development and has participated in many of those debates. This increased openness of the Council, however, does not resolve the issue of its accountability. The effectiveness and credibility of the Council will be much enhanced if it bases its decision-making on a dialogue with the States on whose behalf it acts. In the recent past, the Council has made some decisions that were controversial and others that were of unprecedented reach. Some of the measures taken in connection with financial sanctions impact directly on the lives of individuals who have no means of bringing their grievances stemming from such decisions to the attention of the Council. Since the Council makes its decisions on behalf of the entire membership and since their implementation is mandatory for all Member States, there should be ways for all Member States to express the concerns they might have with regard to such decisions. The appropriate body for such discussions is obviously the General Assembly, the only main organ of the organization of universal membership. 24 When educating people about the United Nations, we keep stumbling upon one issue: The need to explain that the United Nations is not identical with the Security Council. The fact that the Council is seized with the most burning issues and the most pressing international crises is only one part of the explanation for this fact. The flip side which we must no longer ignore is the increasingly futile struggle of the General Assembly to play its rightful role in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. An overburdened agenda, sterile debates, an overflow of documentation and the routine adoption of resolutions, that are but a rehash of past resolutions, have a combined devastating effect on the relevance of this body. The General Assembly is today paralysed to a point that keeps it from dealing with the politically crucial issues and from acting in a quick and flexible manner. A good illustration is the resolution in which the General Assembly condemned the attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. Even though everybody shared the shock and dismay about this vicious attack, it took the General Assembly almost a month to adopt the said resolution. The current state of the Assembly sadly plays into the hands of its detractors. Presiding over the General Assembly is a very difficult task, Mr. President. If you are able to lead this Assembly out of its established routine of paying lip service to its own reform and if you are able to initiate the radical reform this body so desperately needs, you will have created a lasting legacy, and we will support you. Much has been said about the crisis in which the United Nations finds itself after this difficult year. However, every crisis is an opportunity, and I hope that the Assembly will take up its work in this spirit. Very rarely over the past few years has the public interest in the United Nations been greater than it has over the past 12 months. We must ensure that the peoples of the world continue turning to the United Nations as the place where established rules are upheld, new challenges are tackled and effective and responsible action is taken collectively.  ﻿I am honoured to participate, on behalf of Mr. Moses Zeh Blah, President of the Republic of Liberia, in the general debate of the 6 General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, and to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. I express the confidence of the Government of Liberia that you will faithfully honour the responsibilities which you have been assigned. I also wish to commend Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic for the able manner in which he steered the activities of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. Undoubtedly, Mr. Kofi Annan deserves the commendation of this Assembly for his stewardship of our global Organization and the excellent leadership which he exudes in the resolution of international questions, ranging from terrorism to the deadly AIDS pandemic and from poverty to the imbalance in global trade and commerce. We must also pay a special tribute to Sergio Vieira de Mello and other United Nations workers who lost their lives in selfless humanitarian service in Iraq. Those citizens of the world embodied the spirit of the United Nations and are true representatives of the conscience of humanity. Terrorism, the menace to international peace and security, has brought immeasurable grief to the world. Acts of terrorism have elicited neither the understanding nor the empathy of the world for causes to which terrorists may aspire. Contrarily, acts of terrorism have rightly ignited widespread disdain and revulsion for their perpetrators. Today, terrorism seeks to undermine our collective freedom and therefore requires our collective will and efforts to combat this common enemy. However, this objective is being undermined by the lack of international consensus. The unwillingness to garner and work along lines of international consensus has exposed cracks in our efforts to fight terrorism, bringing into scrutiny the structure of this world body and the continued relevance of the Security Council. When the Security Council appears divided on fundamental questions of international security, the world becomes vulnerable. A divided Security Council fertilizes the grounds for the germination of international terror and insecurity. If the Security Council is to serve as the guarantor of international peace and security, then that organ must of necessity be guided by mechanisms that ensure the judicious development of consensus and respect for and adherence to international law. Additionally, our united condemnation of and fight against terrorism must never stoop to the employment of methods not far removed from those used by terrorists themselves. To fight fire with fire will leave our global village without a single hut. We must muster the will to tackle the issues that are exploited by terrorists and terrorist organizations. The conflict in the Middle East has inescapably attracted the attention of the world, posing the greatest challenge to international peace and security. We are saddened by and deeply concerned about the recent turn of events, which has occasioned the virtual debunking of the road map for peace and ensured a classic return to violence. Admittedly, there are serious difficulties in the search for peace for our brothers and sisters of that troubled region. However, these difficulties should neither beset us with a sense of hopelessness nor obscure the agonies and the fears that have come to characterize the way of life in the Middle East. We therefore call on the Government of Israel and the Palestinian Authority to recognize the right to existence of each other within recognized international borders and to foster pragmatic approaches to dialogue, peace, security and the virtues of good- neighbourliness. At the same time, we urge the Security Council to develop, strengthen and maintain international consensus on the way forward. With respect to the Liberian crisis, since our last address to this Assembly, Liberia has wrestled and continues to wrestle with serious political and security challenges. An insurgency that began four years ago reached the Liberian capital, Monrovia. Unsurprisingly, an already deteriorating humanitarian situation worsened, accompanied by the widespread breakdown of law and order. Regrettably, while recognizing the intensification of the war in Liberia and the right of the Liberian people to self-defence, the Security Council maintained an arms embargo on the Government. This situation catalysed the rapid advance of the insurgents and bestowed upon their cause a false sense of international approbation. The Liberian State teetered on the verge of disintegration. But for the resilience of the people of Liberia and the timely intervention of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the International 7 Contact Group on Liberia, Liberia would have slipped into the abyss of unbridled anarchy. We will therefore remain eternally grateful to ECOWAS, and particularly to the Governments and peoples of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Ghana, for their leadership in the quest to stabilize the situation in my country. In a similar manner, the Government of Liberia expresses immense gratitude to the Government of the United States of America, the United Nations, the European Union and the African Union for their respective roles in and continued support for the ongoing efforts to restore lasting peace, security and democracy to Liberia. We must also pay special tribute to the support of the Governments of South Africa and Mozambique. On 11 August 2003, with the deployment of a vanguard force from the friendly Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the promise of a smooth transfer of power was remarkably fulfilled. This development energized the signing, on 18 August in Accra, Republic of Ghana, of a Comprehensive Peace Agreement. The Agreement establishes a framework for the formation and installation of a transitional Government, the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of combatants and the restructuring of the national security apparatus. It also provides for the repatriation and resettlement of refugees and internally displaced persons, the rebuilding of the nation’s productive capacity and the creation of democratic space for the conduct of free, fair and credible elections in 2005. These goals cannot be achieved without concerted multinational collaboration and assistance. The Government of Liberia welcomes the adoption of Security Council resolution 1509 (2003), which establishes the United Nations Mission in Liberia. We pledge our cooperation and support to the realization of the objectives set out in the resolution. Comprehensive disarmament, demobilization and a sustained programme of reintegration and resettlement are sine qua non to peace, security and stability in Liberia and the West African subregion. The Government of Liberia is therefore beholden to the international community, with gratitude for its continuous assistance and support in the search for peace and security in Liberia and the West African subregion. However, unless democratic expressions and aspirations are allowed to flourish through strengthened democratic institutions, and unless an alternative source of livelihood is provided the disarmed combatants, the gains obtained through the support of the international community could be grievously undermined. In this respect, resolution 1509 (2003), which engenders new hope for Liberia, appears to be contradicted by the demands of resolution 1343 (2001). That resolution imposes and maintains a regime of sanctions and other restrictions on Liberia. Unarguably, economic sanctions imposed under resolution 1343 (2001) becloud Liberia with an undeserved stigma that, in effect, discourages the flow of much-needed international investment into the private sector to support Liberia’s post-conflict reconstruction and development programmes and restricts the essential flow of energy needed to revive Liberia’s economic infrastructure. A vibrant private sector is the key to Liberia’s recovery and the cure to problems of unemployment, which provides stimulus to social unrest and political instability. If sanctions, smart or targeted, are tools to accomplish political objectives, then they must respond affirmatively to the realization of the objectives. One does not administer medication to a dead person nor does one take medication to cure the illness of another. The Government of Liberia therefore calls on the Security Council to lift its regime of economic sanctions imposed on the country. In situations such as ours, international goodwill and assistance are often accompanied by the temptation to ignore indigenous expertise largely in favour of expatriates. The net effect of adherence to such temptation is the development of structures and institutions that are neither manageable nor sustainable by the beneficiaries after the departure of the expatriates. Even so, Liberia is blessed with its share of endowments in human and natural resources. As can be expected, years of political turmoil, conflict and mismanagement have resulted in the massive exodus of Liberia’s human resources. Welcoming a new opportunity to rebuild a more democratic, accountable and coherent society, Liberians are desperate to return home and contribute. To that end, it is the desire and expectation of the Government and people of Liberia that, as much as is possible, Liberians will be employed at all levels in the post-conflict reconstruction and rehabilitation of their country. Liberia is a founding Member of this world body. Irrespective of the current problems we face and our 8 need for international assistance, Liberia will remain a respectable member of the international community. We intend to uphold our sovereign dignity in the conduct of international affairs. Liberia cannot and will not be a subject of trusteeship. Like most third-world nations, Liberia is deeply indebted to several international financial institutions and organizations. We are grateful to our creditors for their patience and understanding. Determined as we are to survive, we count on the empathy of the international community to treat our indebtedness with the uniqueness that it deserves and pledge our commitment to working along with those institutions in developing appropriate mechanisms to deal with Liberia’s debt. Servicing these debts remains a priority for the Government of Liberia. However, our capacity to make payment is limited by manifold problems occasioned by several years of continuous warfare. I should now like to turn to the case of the Republic of China. The General Assembly must confront the moral and legal challenges posed by the exclusion of more than 23 million people from representation in this world body. How else are we to explain the denial of the rights of a progressive and industrious people from representation at the level of the General Assembly? The fact remains that the Government and people of the Republic of China on Taiwan have, and continue to engage in, responsible self-governance. It is incontestable that the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan continue to significantly contribute to the improvement of the human family. Their achievements in the spheres of science and technology, commerce and trade, and the arts and culture cannot be ignored. The undaunted spirit of the great people of the Republic of China aspires to participate in the United Nations. Liberia is convinced that the participation of both sides of the Taiwan Strait in the activities of international organizations will encourage greater understanding and mutual trust between the two sides. That is consistent with the spirit of preventive diplomacy advocated by the United Nations. Liberia therefore reiterates its call for the admission of the Republic of China on Taiwan to the United Nations and its specialized agencies, as well as the assumption of its rightful place in the discourse and transaction of world affairs. In conclusion, Liberia is today in urgent need of international assistance and support. While our situation appears to be grim, it is certainly not hopeless. While many of our compatriots may have lost lives and limbs, we are still a forgiving people. While our national infrastructure may have been destroyed, we are still a resilient people. While our dignity may have been impinged upon, we are still a proud people. We Liberians are unified in our determination to work for a better and brighter future. We are united in fostering the faith of our founding fathers to build a nation dedicated to freedom, liberty and justice for all.  ﻿It is my honour to greet the President on behalf of the people of Haiti, and I congratulate our dear friend and brother Mr. Julian Hunte, President of this session of the General Assembly. After having celebrated in 1992 500 years of Indian, black and popular resistance, the Republic of Haiti will celebrate on 1 January 2004 the bicentennial anniversary of its independence. From this moment on, the first black republic of the world most warmly welcomes you to that celebration of freedom. A universal value, that freedom, won in 1804 by our ancestors, must direct us, day and night, towards peace. Because of the genocide inflicted first on the Indians, then on 15 million Africans, wrested from their native land and thrown in chains of slavery onto the soil of Haiti in 1502, there could be no peace. During those three centuries of genocide, our continent provided 70 per cent of the entire world's gold, or 2,849 tons of gold, valued at $36 billion. Of course, slavery is a crime against humanity. It is therefore the binding obligation of our generation to enshrine in the museum of civilization the gold book dedicated to reparation and restitution. Yesterday there was trafficking in blacks. Tomorrow will be the celebration of blacks of blacks who are free and free forever so that peace will finally reign. Therefore, 1 January 2004, will be a celebration for all freedom-loving blacks and whites; a celebration and a holiday for all peoples who thirst for freedom and peace. Thus, we wish to proceed from this bicentennial of freedom to achieve a millennium of peace. 7 In that context, the Republic of Haiti is aiming at sustainable development, to make it possible to achieve the Millennium Development Goals adopted here in 2000 by the world's heads of State and Government. The reduction by half, by 2015, of the percentage of the world's population whose income is less than one dollar a day is indeed an enormous challenge. Yes, it is an enormous challenge to be met, given the acceleration of economic globalization. In this vast space of freedom, where, unfortunately, it has not yet been possible to break the chains of abject poverty, four fifths of the world's inhabitants are users of only one fifth of the planet's entire resources. While global production of basic food products represents 110 per cent of global needs, 30 million people die of hunger every year. To achieve the Millennium Development Goals in Haiti, the exercise of power entails respect for fundamental freedoms, tolerance and good governance; a war on the evils of corruption, drug trafficking and impunity; investment in human beings, security for all, and the holding of free, honest and democratic elections. For the birth of a new Haiti and the advent of a better world, we are opposed to the extinction of freedom, as well as to that of our species and ecosystems. In the Caribbean and in Latin America, the deterioration of the environment is affecting 300 million hectares of land and nearly 30 per cent of coral reefs. Over the past three decades, of 400 million hectares of natural forest that have perished throughout the world, 40 per cent are in the Caribbean and Latin American regions. It goes without saying that the poorest segment of our peoples consequently suffer, and their suffering is our pain. While scientists at the Stockholm summit emphasized the extermination of 150 species of birds and the threat of extinction of 1,000 others, the burning issue today focuses on life or the gradual extinction of the human species. That is demonstrated by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. There are 42 million infected persons throughout the world; 3.1 million deaths; 13 million orphans whose parents have been decimated by the virus; and 6,000 young people who are infected with HIV every day. The attempt to effectively combat this pandemic means opting inevitably for the eradication of poverty. The First Lady of the Republic has written that the burden of the foreign debt and economic sanctions are obviously not paving the way for such eradication. Indeed, in the Caribbean and in Latin America, the foreign debt entails an average net transfer of 25 billion dollars annually to the North. In other words, the aggregate value of that debt exceeds half of the gross domestic product (GDP) of the region. Throughout this collective and historic march towards the Millennium Goals, we hope that the contribution of the rich countries to sustainable development will rise from 0.2 to 0.7 per cent of their gross national product (GNP). Numerous observers have expressed their gratification at observing the reduction in global military spending on a worldwide scale during the last decade of the twentieth century. From 1985 to 1998, those expenditures declined from 1,210.5 billion to 803.7 billion dollars. The drop in military spending and the rise in spending for human development will, we believe, promote both human and economic growth. The Republic of Haiti will continue, unceasingly, to fight against violence and terrorism. It hopes, however, that this uncontrollable need will not lead to stepping up an arms race or the proliferation of deadly weapons throughout the world. Terrorism and bio-terrorism are by no means mere hallucinations. To live in freedom and to live in peace there is a need to eradicate violence wherever it may come from. May we finally see the dawn of an era of peace in the Middle East, in Afghanistan, in Africa, in Asia and in Iraq, wherever wars are inflicting untold suffering on mankind. Since 1989, the end of the cold war, there have been more than 60 armed conflicts claiming the lives of hundreds of thousands of individuals and creating more than 17 million refugees. Violence and slavery are sources of darkness. Peace and freedom are sources of light. Our world is seeking that light. That light, like freedom, is absolutely indispensable for life on earth. Impoverished, but aware of its human, cultural and historic riches, Haiti shines beyond the darkness of colonization like a beacon of freedom. Let us humbly say: The first black republic of the world Is and continues to be the geographical axis of freedom for blacks. 8 (Spoke in Haitian Creole) Haiti is the mother of liberty, Her sons and daughters are the fruits of human dignity. (Spoke in French) Haiti is the mother of liberty, Her sons and daughters are the fruits of human dignity. May it shine, may it shine day and night, that light of freedom! Thanks to Albert Einstein, we know that light is made up of particles and therefore implies a flow of photons. Thanks to Toussaint Louverture, we know that liberty is a radiant source of light, giving off photons of dignity, justice and peace. May the blazing light of liberty shine throughout the world. Our ancestors and your ancestors freed the slaves from their chains. Today, let us unite to free the world from the chains of inhuman poverty. Then we shall see a reign of happiness, justice and peace at the heart of all nations and in Haiti, where you will be all warmly welcomed to celebrate the bicentennial of our independence. ﻿Twenty-four months ago, and yesterday in the memory of America, the centre of New York City became a battlefield, and a graveyard, and the symbol of an unfinished war. Since that day, terrorists have struck in Bali, in Mombassa, in 9 Casablanca, in Riyadh, in Jakarta, in Jerusalem, measuring the advance of their cause in the chaos and innocent suffering they leave behind. Last month, terrorists brought their war to the United Nations itself. The United Nations headquarters in Baghdad stood for order and compassion. For that reason, the terrorists decided it must be destroyed. Among the 22 people who were murdered was Sergio Vieira de Mello. Over the decades, that good and brave man from Brazil gave help to the afflicted in Bangladesh, Cyprus, Mozambique, Lebanon, Cambodia, Central Africa, Kosovo and East Timor, and was aiding the people of Iraq in their time of need. America joins you, his colleagues, in honouring the memory of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and the memory of all those who died with him in the service of the United Nations. By the victims they choose and by the means they use, the terrorists have clarified the struggle we are in. Those who target relief workers for death have set themselves against all humanity. Those who incite murder and celebrate suicide reveal their contempt for life itself. They have no place in any religious faith, they have no claim on the world's sympathy, and they should have no friend in this Hall. Events during the past two years have set before us the clearest of divides: between those who seek order and those who spread chaos, between those who work for peaceful change and those who adopt the methods of gangsters, between those who honour the rights of man and those who deliberately take the lives of men, women and children without mercy or shame. Between those alternatives there is no neutral ground. All Governments that support terror are complicit in a war against civilization. No Government should ignore the threat of terror because to look the other way gives terrorists the chance to regroup, recruit and prepare. All nations that fight terror as if the lives of their own people depended on it will earn the favourable judgement of history. The former regimes of Afghanistan and Iraq knew those alternatives and made their choices. The Taliban was a sponsor and servant of terrorism. When confronted, that regime chose defiance, and that regime is no more. Afghanistan's President, who is here today, now represents a free people who are building a decent and just society. They are building a nation fully joined in the war against terror. The regime of Saddam Hussain cultivated ties to terror while it built weapons of mass destruction. It used those weapons in acts of mass murder and refused to account for them when confronted by the world. The Security Council was right to be alarmed. The Security Council was right to demand that Iraq destroy its illegal weapons and prove that it had done so. The Security Council was right to vow serious consequences if Iraq refused to comply. And because there were consequences because a coalition of nations acted to defend the peace and the credibility of the United Nations Iraq is free, and today we are joined by the representatives of a liberated country. Saddam Hussain's monuments have been removed, and not only his statues. The true monuments of his rule and his character the torture chambers, the rape rooms and the prison cells for innocent children are closed. And as we discover the killing fields and mass graves of Iraq, the true scale of Saddam's cruelty is being revealed. The Iraqi people are meeting hardships and challenges, like every nation that has set out on the path of democracy. Yet, their future promises lives of dignity and freedom, and that is a world away from the squalid, vicious tyranny they have known. Across Iraq, life is being improved by liberty. Across the Middle East, people are safer because an unstable aggressor has been removed from power. Across the world, nations are more secure because an ally of terror has fallen. Our actions in Afghanistan and Iraq were supported by many Governments, and America is grateful to each one. I also recognize that some of the sovereign nations of the Assembly disagreed with our actions. Yet, there was and there remains unity among us on the fundamental principles and objectives of the United Nations. We are dedicated to the defence of our collective security and to the advance of human rights. Those permanent commitments call us to great work in the world, work that we must do together. So, let us move forward. First, we must stand with the people of Afghanistan and Iraq as they build free and stable countries. The terrorists and their allies fear and fight this progress above all because free people embrace hope over resentment and choose peace over violence. The United Nations has been a friend of the Afghan people, distributing food and medicine, helping refugees return home, advising on a new constitution 10 and helping to prepare the way for nationwide elections. NATO has taken over the United Nations mandated security force in Kabul. American and coalition forces continue to track and defeat al Qaeda terrorists and the remnants of the Taliban. Our efforts to rebuild that country go on. I have recently proposed to spend an additional $1.2 billion for the Afghan reconstruction effort, and I urge other nations to continue contributing to that important cause. In the nation of Iraq, the United Nations is carrying out vital and effective work every day. By the end of 2004, more than 90 per cent of Iraqi children under age five will have been immunized against preventable diseases such as polio, tuberculosis and measles, thanks to the hard work and high ideals of UNICEF. Iraq's food distribution system is operational, delivering nearly a half million tons of food per month, thanks to the skill and expertise of the World Food Programme. Our international coalition in Iraq is meeting its responsibilities. We are conducting precision raids against terrorists and holdouts of the former regime. Those killers are at war with the Iraqi people. They have made Iraq the central front in the war on terror. And they will be defeated. Our coalition has made sure that Iraq's former dictator will never again use weapons of mass destruction. We are now interviewing Iraqi citizens and analysing records of the old regime to reveal the full extent of its weapons programmes and its long campaign of deception. We are training Iraqi police, border guards and a new army so that the Iraqi people can assume full responsibility for their own security. At the same time, our coalition is helping to improve the daily lives of the Iraqi people. The old regime built palaces while letting schools decay, so we are rebuilding more than a thousand schools. The old regime starved hospitals of resources, so we have helped to supply and reopen hospitals across Iraq. The old regime built up armies and weapons while allowing the nation's infrastructure to crumble, so we are rehabilitating power plants, water and sanitation facilities, bridges and airports. I have proposed to Congress that the United States provide additional funding for our work in Iraq, the greatest financial commitment of its kind since the Marshall Plan. Having helped to liberate Iraq, we will honour our pledges to Iraq, and by helping the Iraqi people build a stable and peaceful country we will make our own countries more secure. The primary goal of our coalition in Iraq is self- government for the people of Iraq, reached by an orderly and democratic process. That process must unfold according to the needs of Iraqis, neither hurried nor delayed by the wishes of other parties. And the United Nations can contribute greatly to the cause of Iraqi self-government. America is working with friends and allies on a new Security Council resolution, which will expand the United Nation's role in Iraq. As in the aftermath of other conflicts, the United Nations should assist in developing a constitution, training civil servants and conducting free and fair elections. Iraq now has a Governing Council, the first truly representative institution in that country. Iraq's new leaders are showing the openness and tolerance that democracy requires, and they are also showing courage. Yet every young democracy needs the help of friends. Now the nation of Iraq needs and deserves our aid, and all nations of good will should step forward and provide that support. The success of a free Iraq will be watched and noted throughout the region. Millions will see that freedom, equality and material progress are possible at the heart of the Middle East. Leaders in the region will face the clearest evidence that free institutions and open societies are the only path to long-term national success and dignity. And a transformed Middle East would benefit the entire world by undermining the ideologies that export violence to other lands. Iraq as a dictatorship had great power to destabilize the Middle East. Iraq as a democracy will have great power to inspire the Middle East. The advance of democratic institutions in Iraq is setting an example that others, including the Palestinian people, would be wise to follow. The Palestinian cause is betrayed by leaders who cling to power by feeding old hatreds and destroying the good work of others. The Palestinian people deserve their own State. They will gain that State by embracing new leaders committed to reform, to fighting terror and to building peace. All parties in the Middle East must meet their responsibilities and carry out the commitments they made at Aqaba. Israel must work to create the conditions that will allow a peaceful Palestinian State to emerge. Arab nations must cut off funding and other 11 support for terrorist organizations. America will work with every nation in the region that acts boldly for the sake of peace. A second challenge we must confront together is the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Outlaw regimes that possess nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and the means to deliver them would be able to use blackmail and create chaos in entire regions. Those weapons could be used by terrorists to bring sudden disaster and suffering on a scale we can scarcely imagine. The deadly combination of outlaw regimes, terror networks and weapons of mass murder is a peril that cannot be ignored or wished away. If such a danger is allowed to fully materialize, all words, all protests, will come too late. Nations of the world must have the wisdom and the will to stop grave threats before they arrive. One crucial step is to secure the most dangerous materials at their source. For more than a decade, the United States has worked with Russia and other States of the former Soviet Union to dismantle, destroy or secure weapons and dangerous materials left over from another era. Last year in Canada, the G-8 nations agreed to provide up to 20 billion dollars, half of it from the United States, to fight this proliferation risk over the next ten years. Since then, six additional countries have joined the effort. More are needed, and I urge other nations to help us meet this danger. We are also improving our capability to interdict lethal materials in transit. Through our Proliferation Security Initiative, eleven nations are preparing to search planes, ships, trains and trucks carrying suspect cargo and to seize weapons or missile shipments that raise proliferation concerns. These nations have agreed on a set of interdiction principles consistent with current legal authorities, and we are working to expand the Proliferation Security Initiative to other countries. We are determined to keep the world's most destructive weapons away from all our shores and out of the hands of our common enemies. Because proliferators will use any route or channel that is open to them, we need the broadest possible cooperation to stop them. Today I ask the United Nations Security Council to adopt a new antiproliferation resolution. That resolution should call on all Members of the United Nations to criminalize the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, to enact strict export controls consistent with international standards and to secure any and all sensitive materials within their own borders. The United States stands ready to help any nation draft these new laws and to assist in their enforcement. A third challenge we share is a challenge to our conscience. We must act decisively to meet the humanitarian crises of our time. The United States has begun to carry out the Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, aimed at preventing AIDS on a massive scale and treating millions who have the disease already. We have pledged 15 billion dollars over five years to fight AIDS around the world. My country is acting to save lives from famine as well. We are providing more than 1.4 billion dollars in global emergency food aid, and I have asked our United States Congress for 200 million dollars for a new famine fund so that we can act quickly when the first signs of famine appear. Every nation on every continent should generously add their resources to the fight against disease and desperate hunger. There is another humanitarian crisis, spreading, yet hidden from view. Each year, an estimated eight to nine hundred thousand human beings are bought, sold or forced across the world's borders. Among them are hundreds of thousands of teenage girls and others as young as five who fall victim to the sex trade. This commerce in human life generates billions of dollars each year, much of which is used to finance organized crime. There is a special evil in the abuse and exploitation of the most innocent and vulnerable. The victims of the sex trade see little of life before they see the very worst of life an underground of brutality and lonely fear. Those who create these victims and profit from their suffering must be severely punished. Those who patronize this industry debase themselves and deepen the misery of others, and Governments that tolerate this trade are tolerating a form of slavery. This problem has appeared in my own country and we are working to stop it. The Protect Act, which I signed into law this year, makes it a crime for any person to enter the United States or for any citizen to travel abroad for the purpose of sex tourism involving children. The Department of Justice is actively investigating sex tour operators and patrons, who can face up to 30 years in prison. Under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act, the United States is using sanctions against Governments to discourage human trafficking. 12 The victims of this industry also need help from Members of the United Nations. This begins with clear standards and the certainty of punishment under the laws of every country. Today, some nations make it a crime to sexually abuse children abroad. Such conduct should be a crime in all nations. Governments should inform travellers of the harm this industry does and the severe punishments that will fall on its patrons. The American Government is committing $50 million to support the good work of organizations that are rescuing women and children from exploitation and giving them shelter, medical treatment and the hope of a new life. I urge other Governments to do their part. We must show new energy in fighting back an old evil. Nearly two centuries after the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade and more than a century after slavery was officially ended in its last strongholds, the trade in human beings for any purpose must not be allowed to thrive in our time. All the challenges I have spoken of this morning require urgent attention and moral clarity. Helping Afghanistan and Iraq to succeed as free nations in a transformed region; cutting off the avenues of proliferation; abolishing modern forms of slavery these are the kinds of great tasks for which the United Nations was founded. In each case, careful discussion is needed and, also, decisive action. Our good intentions will be credited only if we achieve good outcomes. As an original signer of the United Nations Charter, the United States of America is committed to the United Nations and we show that commitment by working to fulfil the United Nations stated purposes and by giving meaning to its ideals. The founding documents of the United Nations and the founding documents of America stand in the same tradition. Both assert that human beings should never be reduced to objects of power or commerce, because their dignity is inherent. Both recognize a moral law that stands above men and nations, but which must be defended and enforced by men and nations. And both point the way to peace the peace that comes when all are free. We secure that peace with our courage and we must show that courage together. ﻿Let me congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I am confident that your leadership as well as your vast political and diplomatic experience will successfully carry us through this session. We extend to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, our sincere appreciation for the excellent manner in which he guided the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, which just ended. Our meeting today is overshadowed by the death of Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello and of 22 other United Nations workers, who were killed in the line of duty in Baghdad on 19 August 2003. I join my colleagues in extending my personal condolences and those of my Government and of the people of Zimbabwe to Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the bereaved families. Against this tragedy and the inauspicious developments in Iraq, we cannot allow ourselves to treat this session as merely routine. At the heart of the tragedy in that nation is the unprecedented assault on the ethic and function of multilateralism in world affairs represented by the Security Council, the only guarantor of global peace, order and security. Some powerful Western nations, led by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Britain, went into a war of unclear objectives in the face of clear opposition from the rest of the world, and, as we now know, with clear opposition from their own people as well. It was and remains an unjust, illegitimate war — unjust to the extent that it was founded and prosecuted on false words; illegitimate to the extent that it was not sanctioned by the United Nations and has transformed itself into an effective occupation of a sovereign people. There can never be world peace under conditions of foreign invasion and occupation. There can never be world security and order when naked power suspends, and substitutes with unilateralism, the hallowed principle of multilateralism, on the basis of which we have made, kept, preserved and expanded peace since the Second World War. We tell the General Assembly that as a people from a continent that has suffered a similar fate in recent history; indeed, as a people who had to overthrow foreign imperial occupation through costly struggles. 2 It is a strange logic that the Iraqis pay for a bad president, a bad government and a bad war by occupation and loss of their sovereignty. Let us state here quite clearly to both Britain and the United States that the Iraqi people must have the sovereign right to determine the affairs of their country restored immediately. Like all peoples of the world, their love for freedom and self-rule is just as strong and just as deep as their hatred for bad leadership and bad government. Like all peoples of the world, they are unwilling to be occupied and governed by a foreign coalition, however willing and powerful it may be. No people want that, and we of Africa know it. We must reject the present road map of naked unilateralism for consent-oriented statecraft in world affairs. What is the future of the world without the United Nations? We hope the coalition that willingly went to war with Iraq without Security Council sanction is now willing to admit that defeating others is not always the same as winning peace and that wars are ended not by proclamations, but by just settlements. Indeed, we hope that they have learned from their costly mistakes and are willing to let the United Nations reassert its authority in the broader search for peace and security in Iraq. If we are to overcome crises that could result in calamitous wars and social breakdowns, and to achieve peace and stability with justice, we need humane global governance under the leadership of the United Nations, as distinct from a unilateral global state and government. Only that type of governance can make and build peace, and indeed keep peace for mankind. Let it not be said that Zimbabwe enjoys criticizing the United States and Britain for the sake of criticism. Our criticisms are founded on sound, fundamental principles. Let it not be forgotten that Zimbabwe was in the chair when the Security Council authorized the first Gulf War. We stood firmly then by the United Nations and the countries, including the United States and Britain, that removed Iraq from Kuwait. We did so on the basis that expansionism and occupation of a sovereign country and people cannot be right, can never be just and warranted under any circumstances. We admired the deployment of power to just ends, under the auspices of the United Nations. It is the absence of the same ingredients that explains our indignation and our sharp censure of the so-called coalition of the willing that does not seem to recognize that both the Iraqis and the world are unwilling to sanction the means employed and the end achieved. The inadequacies of existing international institutions in dealing with present challenges is a sad testimony to their flawed foundational conceptions amidst changing circumstances. We have anachronistic institutions relying too comfortably on traditional norms to address new challenges. Decades after the defeat of Nazi Germany, does the world still need to rely on a system founded on the principle of rewarding the allied Powers for defeating Nazi Germany and thereby bringing post-world war peace? At its foundation, the United Nations collective system allowed two classes of response. If a minor Power committed aggression and there was unanimity among the five permanent members of the Security Council, a collective response could follow. However, if a permanent member was opposed to such action it could use its veto. In historical terms, that approach represents the institutionalization of a particular form of world order, namely, the immediate post-1945 world order, which sought to reward and empower the allied Powers as the only competent stewards of world peace. But the world has changed a great deal since then. Just as many new nations have emerged since then, the allied Powers have also evolved in ways that easily make them actors of injustice, and therefore threats to world peace. Global power is now unipolar. The reality today is that we cannot treat the United Nations system as given. The institutional arrangements in place were relevant only for a specified period, and must inevitably be adapted, transformed or even radically modified as material circumstances have changed and prevailing meanings, practices and purposes have been challenged by new inter-subjective voices. In today’s unipolar world, what can the Security Council do to one of its permanent members whose actions threaten world peace? At a time when citizens everywhere are pressing for a greater say in national governance, it is imperative for us as heads of State and Government to seek, in turn, a fairer representation through the democratization of multilateral organizations such as the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization. What is good for the goose must surely be good for the gander. The present autocracy in global governance must be challenged stoutly so that all nations, big or small, have an equal 3 say and equal power in the way in which we govern world affairs. The Security Council just has to democratize, and that means re-examining its composition and the way in which power is distributed, and therefore exercised, within that crucial body. I am happy that the Secretary- General’s current report entitled “Implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration”, is in agreement with our concerns that “The composition of the Security Council — unchanged in its essentials since 1945 — seems at odds with the geopolitical realities of the twenty-first century.” [A/58/323, para. 96] In the light of that stark reality, it is evident that the decisions of the Security Council, which have a decisive impact on events in the real world, increasingly lack legitimacy in the eyes of the developing world. Even the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, popularly known as the World Bank, whose raison d’être was to provide assistance to the developing world, have succumbed to the whims and caprices of the major Powers. The Bretton Woods institutions, in their current form and practice, are designed to deny developing countries the capacity to chart their independent developmental path. The extraneous conditionalities of the Bretton Woods institutions, imposed by the powerful countries for the qualification or disqualification of beneficiaries, are intended to further the national interests of the big Powers and to justify wanton interference in the affairs of small nations. Is it not a baffling irony that a small country like Zimbabwe, which, after it responded positively to a distress call by a neighbour suffering aggression — even by United Nations reckoning — was deemed ineligible to access IMF and World Bank funding for the very reason of having gone to the rescue of that neighbour? One hopes that the new, recent realization by the World Bank that land reforms are at the heart of poverty eradication mark the beginning of a new outlook on its part. Notwithstanding that determined and resolute attempt at frustrating our land-reform programme, the fast-track phase through which we reasserted our sovereign right over our land as a principal resource is largely concluded, and is now yielding tangible benefits to the vast majority of our people. There is a new sense of empowerment, yielding a happy sense of ownership, which has brought thousands upon thousands of hitherto marginalized families back into the economic mainstream. Zimbabwe’s National Economic Revival Programme gives clear priority to agriculture as the engine for economic revival and growth. We are forging ahead on the basis of our own efforts and support from nations of good will. We are determined to move on and succeed. A land review committee recently set up by my Government to assess the whole reform programme has now submitted its findings, which will help us in mapping the way forward to achieve sustainable development in the agricultural sector, in line with the criteria and objectives we set ourselves. In the area of world trade, Zimbabwe believes in a multilateral trading system that serves well all members of the trading nations. It is therefore a matter of some grave regret that the developing countries of the South and those of the developed North could not reconcile their differences, and thus rendered inconclusive the Cancún mid-term review of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Doha Development Agenda. We in the South were right to reject the so-called new issues that the North insisted be negotiated first. We urge the North to engage in honest negotiations and to desist from trying to use the WTO forum for hegemonic ends. Zimbabwe and other countries in the subregion continue to grapple with the effects of the HIV/AIDS scourge. To combat the epidemic, my Government has declared HIV/AIDS a national emergency. We have embarked on a national programme of prevention, the highlight of which consists of mass mobilization to deepen awareness and understanding of the disease. As a result of that campaign, our infection rate in the sexually active 15 to 49 age group has come down from 35 per cent to 24 per cent. Through our national efforts, the AIDS levy has to date raised $8 billion. That money is being distributed through a decentralized structure that ensures accessibility right down to the village level. We call upon the international community to complement our efforts. The situation in the Middle East remains grave and troubled. A conflict that is quite costly on both sides of the divide continues unabated, with the only response from the international community coming by way of episodic judgements that maldistribute blame on the basis of individual national interests. Especially 4 wrong is the belief that settlement can come only through ostracizing and even eliminating the leadership of the Palestinian people. Assassinations and extrajudicial killings must be rejected as a formula for peace. Zimbabwe welcomes the measures adopted by the Security Council aimed at strengthening the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We are encouraged by the increase, under a Chapter VII mandate, of the force levels of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as by the imposition of a 12-month arms embargo over areas in the troubled eastern part of the Congo. We also urge the international community to rally behind the peace initiative of the Economic Community of West African States aimed at bringing peace to Liberia. The transition to peace in Liberia has confirmed that, with international goodwill and support, African solutions to African problems are possible. To strengthen the peace process, we call upon the international community to address the humanitarian crisis facing the Liberian people as a result of a debilitating civil war. My country remains committed to playing a positive role in peacekeeping efforts carried out under the auspices of the United Nations. Indeed, we have so far played our part fully and magnificently.  ﻿I congratulate you, Sir, upon your assumption of this high office. I also wish to extend my sincere gratitude to your worthy predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his dedicated and committed tenure as president. I commend the resolute leadership of our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, during these challenging and uncertain times. It is a timely reminder of the dedication and commitment to the Charter required of us all as Member States. Tonga wishes to extend its deepest sympathy and condolences to the Secretary-General, the Organization and all affected delegations for the tragic loss of life in the attacks of 19 August and this past week on the United Nations compound in Baghdad. We recall the courage of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and too many others before him, who have fallen in the line of duty while embodying the United Nations commitment to, and ultimate sacrifice for, a peaceful and better world. For its part, my Government will carefully study and examine the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. Attacks such as that of 11 September 2001 and those that befell the United Nations compound in Baghdad will continue to serve as stirring reminders to us all of the need for ever present vigilance and strength to combat terrorism. Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) continues to be the beacon that guides the activities of my Government to develop and enhance appropriate measures in order to strengthen our compliance. Tonga continues to support the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) and has, to date, submitted all the necessary country reports requested of it. I am grateful to the CTC and the Security Council for their patience. After careful study of the United Nations conventions on terrorism, Tonga is now a party to all 12 instruments, but merely becoming parties to these instruments will not suffice. Concrete steps will continue to be needed for small countries like mine to fully and meaningfully implement those obligations. We have strengthened our legislative framework and taken other measures in order to give domestic effect to such obligations. We continue to participate in national and regional activities designed to assist countries such as Tonga implement viable counter-terrorism measures. The ongoing assistance of our traditional development partners and other organizations such as the Commonwealth and the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) Secretariat have been a boon in this regard. Last year, I referred to the signposts that line the developmental path: the Millennium Summit, Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg. Together with the 11 outcomes of other United Nations summit and conferences, they have inspired hope and vision for our collective developmental aspirations. While recent events in Cancun might not be encouraging, they have served to emphasize that implementing those signposts will be critical and decisive. That is a timely reminder, as small island developing States (SIDS) proceed towards implementing chapter VII of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation. That chapter refers specifically, among other things, to the ten-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action that is to take place in Mauritius in 2004. Indeed, Sir, under your presidency in particular, Tonga hopes that this is one signpost that will give further impetus to the achievements in Johannesburg last year, as well as to the national efforts and endeavours of SIDS in achieving sustainable development. We will continue to refine our priority and capacity needs to take greater advantage of available financial and technological support. An example of that is our attempt to improve our air transport services and international aviation links to combat what has been described as the tyranny of distance' in our region, by becoming the most recent party to the Multilateral Agreement on the Liberalization of International Air Transport. Regional activities which bear upon our sustainable development efforts include the Japan- Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting (PALM) Summit 2003 between Pacific Islands Forum member States, including Tonga, and Japan, where mutual developmental issues are discussed and considered. I commend Japan for its ongoing commitment to Tonga and the region through that process, and I look forward to the fruitful results of the Okinawa Initiative. I also commend the initiative and recent visit to the Pacific this year of President Chirac of France. It was an encouraging sign and created a solid foundation for further dialogue and future partnership on developmental issues. I look forward to participating in the next summit meeting in Paris. As a developing ocean State, we remain interested in ongoing developments in oceans affairs and the law of the sea. As I have mentioned earlier, Tonga has become party to all United Nations conventions on terrorism including those that are maritime-related. We continue to value the work and decisions this year of the States Parties to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the International Seabed Authority and the work and role of the United Nations Informal Consultative Process at its fourth meeting. I am pleased that the second informal meeting of States Parties to the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement recently resulted in a framework to enable the concrete implementation of Part VII of the Agreement with particular attention to small island developing States and their aspirations for fisheries. In that respect, we urge other Member States to become a party to that important Agreement As emphasized during the special high-level meeting on Monday, 22 September, HIV/AIDS remains a devastating developmental and public health challenge for us all, particularly for small and remote island communities. Tonga welcomes the work of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the funding it has recently approved to assist Tonga and other countries in the region. That complements our own national strategies and programmes to combat those scourges. Earlier this year, my Government took the necessary legislative, administrative and preventive measures to protect against the spread of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). I commend the untiring work of the World Health Organization (WHO) in its committed efforts to address and combat that public health threat. I also commend the recent adoption by the WHO Assembly of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control which, as of yesterday, has Tonga as one of its signatories. I was pleased to have been requested by the Government of the Solomon Islands and by other PIF Foreign Ministers to contribute Tongan troops and police personnel to the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) to restore law and order. RAMSI has enabled the Government to address urgent and varied concerns such as formulating new measures to deal with the enormous economic and developmental challenges they now face. That endeavour, endorsed by the 16 Pacific Islands Forum member States, is testament to what can be done by a region to bring about peace in its part of the world. Each Pacific Islands Forum member State has contributed to RAMSI in accordance with its own capacity. Taken together with Australian and New Zealand resources and command, it is producing 12 pleasing results. It is not the first such regional effort in the field of security. Small might too readily be considered by some to be beautiful, but we, too, play our role in many fields of cooperation. Tonga continues to fully support the work of the Security Council and the call for the full implementation of its resolutions to ensure lasting peace in arenas of conflict. In the Middle East, the peaceful and lasting coexistence of two States living side by side within secure and recognized borders will continue to be elusive until the cycle of violence ends and there is a return to constructive dialogue. Iraq is a sharp backdrop for the United Nations. One of the lessons of 11 September 2001 and Iraq is not just that our Organization is in need of reform but that reform is urgently and desperately required. As I stated in my Millennium General Assembly address three years ago, the Security Council needs reform. Otherwise we shall be dealing with today's realities by means of mechanisms of yesteryear. I continue to support the call for reforming the Council by expanding the number of permanent and non- permanent members. In like terms, I support the call of the Assembly President for a proactive and action- oriented General Assembly. Let us hope that between this session of the General Assembly and the next, something concrete emerges.  ﻿First, Sir, please accept my warm congratulations and my fervent hopes for your successful achievement of the mission entrusted to you. Your election to the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly is a fitting tribute by the international community to the people of Saint Lucia. I am convinced that with your experience 22 and your distinguished intellectual and ethical qualities, you will successfully lead our work to be carried out in the best spirit. Sir, I wish to convey to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, the congratulations of the delegation of Mali for the skill, dedication and spirit of initiative and the authority with which he directed the work of the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly. I also take this solemn occasion to pay well-deserved tribute to Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan for his dedication to the ideals of the United Nations. The present session is opening in a context where the United Nations is still confronting challenges to its very existence; those challenges moved humanity 58 years ago to equip itself with an instrument of hope capable of meeting them. Let us recall that the United Nations were conceived to save ourselves from the demons of war and insecurity. The idea was to secure a state of grace one of man reconciled with himself and to create the conditions for reducing material want, uncertainty and poverty. Flashpoints of tension fire and smoke exist and are developing in many places. Poverty and distress are the daily lot of many inhabitants of our planet, particularly in Africa. The arrival of the new millennium brought enormous hopes. We have barely turned to the third page of this millennium and new challenges are assailing humankind. Upon us are other questions for which we must uncover the appropriate solutions so that our Organization will remain true to itself and pursue its goals without succumbing to a hijacking of its mandate. The Government of Mali believes that the United Nations remains an instrument of great value. Defining the rules of the game is one thing; applying them under the watchful eye of an impartial arbiter who has the necessary authority and the corresponding means to act is another. We need to work to make the United Nations that authority and arbiter. For its part, under the distinguished leadership of Mr. Amadou Toumani TourÈ, President of the Republic of Mali, our country is steadfastly committed to supporting the United Nations in attaining its objective: the full development of humankind. At the national level, our President is firmly committed to strengthening the institutions of the Republic and of communities, to promote democracy and human rights and to give a boost to good governance, economic growth and sustainable development. Peace and security are among the principal values held and venerated by the peoples of the entire world as they are essential for their social and economic development. Mali has been fully committed to the twin challenges of conflict prevention and conflict management. At the subregional level, Mali has sent troops to Liberia, and our President has been personally committed to solidarity with the Government and people of CÙte d'Ivoire in their search for coordinated political solutions to the crisis faced by that brotherly country. That testifies to the importance we attach to peace and stability. At the continental level, our country will unstintingly continue its tireless efforts within the African Union, which have deployed continuously since the establishment of the African Union to achieve stability, the guarantor for all economic social and cultural development. Therefore, Mali calls on all States to adopt a multilateral approach, subregional and regional cooperation and international solidarity, with rigorous respect for the sovereignty of States. The overall situation prevailing in the Middle East, in particular the conflict in Iraq, remains a burning issue of the day and a major concern for the international community. We should point out to the protagonists of these conflicts that war is never anything other than a political failure and that the victories of peace are no less renowned than those of war. Peace between Palestinians and Israelis will garner more fame than all wars combined. The parties to the conflict should be mindful of that. In addition, we invite the international community to provide aid and assistance to the Palestinian people and the Palestinian Authority because the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure and the restrictions imposed as a result of occupation have caused a clear deterioration of the socio-economic fabric of Palestinian society. It is therefore to be feared that the strategy of destruction will henceforth become a constant in how conflicts unfold in general. Terrorism is one of the gravest threats to human security. Combating that scourge requires strengthening national and regional capacities. It should be recalled 23 that Mali has ratified all international legal instruments concerning terrorism and transnational organized crime, as well as the additional protocol. It is encouraging to note that the international community, in particular the United Nations, has made the campaign against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons a major focus of concern. That is particularly reassuring because, for the last ten years, small arms and light weapons have weighed on the future and destiny of the peoples of Africa. Their adverse affects have been a great blow to human dignity, freedom and security. Mali, which since 10 May 2003 has held the presidency of the Human Security Network, calls on all States to unite for the success of the initiative of the framework convention on international transfers of arms, currently being drafted, which is expected to be launched in Bamako next October; it will be an important step towards the establishment of the mandate of the heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States to transform the moratorium on small arms and light weapons into an international convention. In addition, Mali continues to be deeply concerned by the phenomenon of child soldiers and calls for vigorous action to put an end to that practice, if we wish to save future generations from the scourge of war. For many reasons, the level of security for the world's population has considerably deteriorated in recent years. Even today, in many African countries, people are often caught in the grip of conflicts involving guerrillas, rebel groups, civil war, ethnic war, clan war and clashes between militias, warlords and regular army forces. Designing a political strategy based on the idea of human security has now become a very urgent priority. For its mandate at the head of the Human Security Network, Mali has made its priority the issues of education in human rights, children in armed conflict, the campaign against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, gender in peacekeeping operations and food security. In the field of economics, the Government of Mali is adopting stimulative fiscal measures in order to attract national and international investment, in particular in the productive areas of cotton, mines and raising livestock. But those efforts are being hampered by the effects of globalization. In fact, in agriculture in particular, it is not so much poverty that offends as the conditions that engender that poverty. To give but one example, Mali like other African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries is suffering from the cotton competition with developed countries, which each year provide five times more funds in subsidies to their farmers than they do to development assistance. Those subsidies have a direct impact on world cotton prices, which are lower than they have been for 25 years. That policy of cotton production and export subsidies by certain developed countries must be abandoned, because they are contrary to the rules and principles of the multilateral trade system. They are ruining African economies, depriving our farmers of their share of the world market, and exacerbating the poverty that we undertook to eliminate at the Millennium Summit. On another topic, Mali welcomes the adoption of the Almaty Programme of Action, whose aim is forge partnerships that will better meet the special needs of the landlocked developing countries. We believe that that Programme makes it incumbent on the international community to devise a new framework of cooperation with respect to transportation and transit a policy that will help developing landlocked countries to integrate into the world economy and to speed up their socio-economic development. To do so, it is essential that this Programme of Action be implemented with diligence at all levels, with the active assistance of the technical and financial partners of the landlocked developing countries. Given the major changes that the world is going through today and the many challenges that it faces, Africa decided to crystallize its willingness to act through two initiatives: the creation of the African Union and the launching of the New Partnership for Africa's Development. These two initiatives represent a clear and courageous vision of the way Africa intends to shoulder its responsibilities with respect to its own development and its full integration into the world economy. We deeply appreciate the commitment made by the international community here at United Nations Headquarters to support the tremendous task of development in Africa, and we welcome the actions of the Group of Eight aimed at establishing programmes 24 that will help translate into reality the commitments made in the African action plan. We hope that this example will be followed by the international community, because the implementation of NEPAD will require substantial and effective support. With respect to information and communication technologies, my delegation welcomes the upcoming holding, in December 2003 in Geneva, of the first phase of the World Summit on the Information Society, which will offer the international community, and African States in particular, the opportunity to discuss the role of those technologies and their impact on socio-economic development. The second phase will be held in Tunis, Africa, and we hope that the Summit will adopt specific measures to promote the development of the least advanced people in these areas. The world is in crisis, and the worldwide crisis at present is largely due to humankind's inability to comprehend and to take on the responsibilities required by the new role that is required in the world. In the context of this crisis, realities have changed also for the United Nations. Today we have to deal with those who had previously been overlooked. For Mali, the United Nations remains the living incarnation of this hope for peace and security. It is an unequalled instrument. But, like any other instrument, it can worn out if it is overused, and from time to time it needs to be reinvigorated in order to be more effective, efficient and modern and to perform better. Our Organization is at a crossroads. To quote a contemporary author, If we keep looking towards the past to prolong it, we are doomed. If we look towards a new horizon, then our strength, our creativity and the power of our intellect will do the rest.' The past of our Organization has shown its limits. We must now implement reforms that will allow us to realize our hopes for the future. Global governance requires the democratization of the decision-making structures that will implement it. The current membership of the Security Council, for example, no longer meets the needs of our planet. Its composition must reflect its universal nature. Therefore, we are in favour of opening it up and expanding it to include other Member States in order better to meet the complex challenges of the day. Mali has taken note of the commitments made along these lines by the Secretary-General in his most recent report and reaffirms the central role of the United Nations in the implementation of international commitments and the fact that this can be done only if there is a dynamic and innovative partnership between developed and developing countries. The creation of the International Criminal Court, whose elected judges and Prosecutor were sworn in this year, is certainly a success for the international community, which has fought against impunity and made it a subject of international concern. In fact, for two decades, the fight against impunity and respect for human dignity has mobilized all people of goodwill. Although recent developments seem to indicate that prospects for the advent of an independent international judicial forum do not appear promising, I would recall that the path to follow involves not only resolving conflicts and establishing peace, but also requires our determination to work together. We are convinced of this, and therefore Mali would plead for a strong ICC a universal ICC, acting as an instrument which cannot be deterred and which will help contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. In conclusion, I should like to recall that democracy, justice, freedom, peace, security, development and respect for commitments are common values that are our foundation for, and give us a sense of, our humanity. All people must be given their freedom and their dignity. We therefore call on all States to look to the future to imagine and to promote the lifestyle that corresponds to the aspirations of our people. To do so, we are determined to reject any sense of fatalism of whatever kind political, economic, social or cultural. Indeed, today there are men and women who are capable, through their work and through their will, of realizing the aspirations of our peoples for well-being, peace, security, prosperity and sustainable development. Now we can hope to build a new world a world that is rich in its diversity within the framework of the United Nations and on new bases, a glorious world in which we can work together in a spirit of solidarity. Some of those men and women, on behalf of the peoples of the world, paid with their lives for their 25 dedication to the lofty ideals of the United Nations. Let them always be in our thoughts and prayers. Let us all work together. Let us all continue to believe in the intrinsic nature of human beings in their basic dignity and kind-heartedness. ﻿I bring to the Assembly greetings and good wishes from the President of the Republic of Palau, Tommy E. Remengesau, Jr., and from the people and the Government of the Republic of Palau. Nearly 60 years ago, in his final inaugural address, United States President Franklin Delano Roosevelt reflected on the lessons of the first half of the twentieth century. He said: “We have learned that we cannot live alone, at peace; that our own well-being is dependent on the well-being of other nations far away. ... We have learned to be citizens of the world, members of the human community.” Those words have more resonance today than ever before as Palau and the rest of the world enter into the twenty-first century. The Republic of Palau is enjoying rapid development, which came with its independence on 1 October nine years ago. However, at a time of rapid globalization, when events halfway around the world — and most recently in our own backyard — can profoundly affect our safety and prosperity, Palau realizes that it must join the international community in this new challenge to protect our people at home and our way of life. To that end, the Republic of Palau reaffirms its unwavering support for the war led by the United States against terrorism. We all benefit when nations 12 come together to deter aggression and terrorism, to resolve conflicts, to prevent the spread of diseases and the spread of dangerous weapons, to promote democracy and human rights, to open markets and to create economic and financial stability, to raise living standards and to protect the environment — to face those myriad challenges that no nation can meet alone. Globalization, however, also brings about risks. Outlaw States and ethnic conflicts threaten regional stability and progress in many important areas of the world. Weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, drug trafficking and other international crimes are global concerns that transcend national borders. Other problems originating overseas — such as the depletion of resources, rapid population growth, environmental damage, new infectious diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), pervasive corruption and uncontrolled refugee migration — have increasingly significant implications for every nation’s security. National economies will suffer if the global economy is unstable or if markets collapse, and the highest environmental standards — such as those set out in the Kyoto Protocol — will not protect small, struggling island countries like Palau if other countries do not join the global effort to bring about peace and stability. Protection of the environment is a major concern to us. Decisions made today regarding the environment and natural resources can affect every nation’s security for generations. Environmental threats do not respect national borders, but they can pose long-term dangers for every nation’s security and well-being. Scarcity and depletion of natural resources can trigger and exacerbate conflict. Environmental threats — such as climate change, the depletion of stratospheric ozone, the introduction of nuisance plant and animal species, the overharvesting of fish and of other living natural resources, and the transnational movement of hazardous chemicals and waste — directly threaten the health and economic well-being of every people of the world. For Palau, the immediate danger is the rise in sea level. Another issue that we wish to address is that of the cloning of human beings. We believe that any global and comprehensive ban on human cloning must include a ban on the cloning of human embryos for research purposes. While the goal of finding cures to chronic illnesses is laudable, progress and economic gain achieved by creating and destroying human life come at too high a price. We believe that adult-stem- cell research is a promising field of study that can provide an ethical source of stem cells for scientific investigation. The international community must not allow human life to be devalued in any way, and we encourage all States to adopt such measures as may be necessary to prohibit techniques of genetic engineering that may have adverse consequences on respect for human dignity. In public health, we note that many peoples around the world are suffering and dying each day from the scourges of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, cancer, polio and similar diseases. Combined international support for public health beyond the clinic walls must be advocated and put into practice if we are to eliminate some of those challenges to quality human life. Such international support and collaborative efforts were recently manifested during the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). I also urge all members of this body to support and ratify the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control adopted by the World Health Assembly this year. More importantly, we should combine our efforts to implement the mission of the Convention to control tobacco use, which contributes to diseases and death throughout the world. The United Nations is to truly represent all peoples, with discrimination and exclusion eliminated from its operational practice. To be effective at ensuring international peace and security, all nations, large and small, must be represented in the United Nations. The Republic of China on Taiwan can no longer be kept on the sidelines of the most important international Organization and the leading forum for international dialogue. Over the past half-century, the hard-working people of Taiwan have transformed their country into the world’ s seventeenth largest economy and a vibrant democracy. In 1996, Taiwan had its first direct presidential election and, in 2000, accomplished its first peaceful transfer of executive powers. Since then Taiwan’s popularly-elected Government has acted in accordance with United Nations resolutions to combat international terrorism and to support humanitarian relief in countries throughout the world, and yet it is still excluded from the process. Our experience with SARS has shown us that exclusion can bring no benefits to anyone. The 23 million Taiwanese people have an equal right to a voice in the United 13 Nations and should be welcomed by all members of this body. The central purpose of the United Nations is the preservation and advancement of world peace. It accomplishes its peacemaking and humanitarian assistance efforts through international cooperation. Its 191 Member States, large and small, rich and poor, and with different political views, strive collectively to address global challenges and advance world peace. Together, they consider and decide on the world’s most pressing problems. Thus, in this regard I ask the world here today, at the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, to study and discuss the roots of terrorism and possible solutions, including inter-religious intervention; to promote conservation standards to protect our Earth’s environment; to promote world public health; to protect the human dignity by banning the cloning of human embryos; and to continue our quest for peace and security for all peoples of the world.   ﻿In 2000, at the dawn of the new millennium, the heads of State and Government of the Member States met here to reaffirm their shared goals. Three years later, that international consensus has eroded. Member States perceive threats differently, and they do not share the same priorities. Some States emphasize the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In other regions in the world, civil wars, small arms, poverty, hunger and AIDS are the main dangers. 21 Can the international community reach a consensus on the objectives to be attained and the way to achieve them? What importance should we give to multilateral cooperation? Has the time not come to review the system of collective security inherited from the Second World War? Could it be that the United Nations is due for far-reaching reform? The fact that so many heads of State and Government have responded to the Secretary-General's invitation is a preliminary answer. It is an encouraging sign. The Member States look to the United Nations to seek solutions. We must seize the opportunity of this debate to reaffirm our commitment to multilateral cooperation and the goals of the United Nations. Life in society demands a minimum of order, rules and solidarity. That also applies to international relations. Switzerland attaches great importance to respect for international law, which explains its commitment to humanitarian law or to the International Criminal Court. Without international law, many countries would feel themselves at the mercy of the law of the mightiest. The great powers, like the smaller ones, need a multilateral framework to resolve their differences. The time has come to rethink the role of the United Nations. Almost 60 years after the foundation of the Organization, the threats have changed, as have the geopolitical realities. Terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have taken on more threatening dimensions. Civil wars have multiplied. AIDS has become the most deadly epidemic in the history of humankind. Poverty is far from being eradicated. Security can no longer be addressed in purely military terms. We need to review our vision of security by focusing greater attention on individuals. By broadening our approach to security and by placing fresh emphasis on human security, we can overcome some of the current differences between the North and the South. Together with other countries, Switzerland is endeavouring to promote the idea of human security. This year it will commit itself to the issues of the proliferation of light weapons and anti-personnel mines. We hope the General Assembly will establish a working group to develop an instrument for marking and tracing small arms. If the Members of the Organization concur, Switzerland is ready to take the chair. The Swiss Government also takes an active interest in the issue of migration. We are working with other countries to establish a global commission on international migration, which will be asked to make recommendations. In order to promote human security, we must also keep the promises made in the field of development. In the Millennium Declaration we have undertaken to ensure that globalization becomes a positive force for all humankind. To that end, we have adopted a series of clear objectives, and deadlines to meet them have been set. But merely proclaiming goals is not enough; we must now fulfil them. If the rich countries and my country is among them do not keep their promises, they will end up causing poor countries to lose hope. In Cancun, the members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) tried to revive trade liberalization. Although positions converged somewhat, disagreements persist and there is a risk of lasting failure. That would result in weakened growth at the global level, to the detriment of all countries. We need to give negotiations another chance and, above all, avoid the lure of protectionism. To affirm a belief in the multilateral system should not blind us to its weak points. The United Nations needs more thorough reform. Switzerland considers that the role of the United Nations in the economic and social fields must be defined. We must better take account of the links between international security and economic development. Relations between the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions and WTO should also be reconsidered by a group of independent eminent persons. We must also focus our attention on the functioning of the Organization itself. In the General Assembly, resolutions that are adopted are too often reduced to the lowest common denominator or to a long, vague wish list, with no real impact. The Assembly must be revitalized. There is a need to reduce the number of agenda items, limit the length of texts and avoid the proliferation of resolutions on issues that overlap. With regard to the Security Council, a consensus already exists on the fact that its composition no longer 22 sufficiently reflects contemporary geopolitical realities. Switzerland supports the idea of enlarging the Council. That could be done without harming its effectiveness as long as the increase in the number of members remains within reasonable bounds and takes into account the various regional sensibilities. In the last few years, countries not members of the Council have been given more opportunities to participate in the Council's work. Switzerland welcomes those efforts. However, the crucial decisions too often remain confined to the restricted circle of the five permanent members. All members of the Security Council should be permanently involved in the decision-making process. It is also important to institutionalize the modalities of participation for the other Member States. For example, consultation mechanisms with those States most directly affected by conflict areas should be strengthened. It should be necessary for non-permanent members of the Council to feel a greater responsibility to represent the views of those who elected them. The right of veto is a privilege involving special responsibilities. It should be used only in exceptional circumstances. When a permanent member exercises its right of veto, would it not be desirable for it then to explain its action to the General Assembly? That way, that member could make its position better understood by the international community. Another goal is to open the United Nations to civil society. Switzerland welcomes the decision of the Secretary-General to set up a panel of experts to consider the possible ways to achieve that. It is in this spirit of openness towards civil society that preparations are being carried out for the World Summit on the Information Society, due to take place in Geneva in December. More than half of the world's population does not have access to a telephone. The use of Internet is even more limited. The goal of the Summit, a part of the larger framework of the Millennium Goals, is to discuss ways to narrow the digital divide between the rich and poor countries. New technologies must be placed at the service of development, human rights and democracy. I invite all Member States to participate actively in the Summit. Many heads of State and Government have announced their intention to attend, which gives me great pleasure. I must address, above all, my colleagues of the industrialized countries: we must shoulder our responsibilities. I appeal to them not to miss that important appointment. We need a North- South dialogue at the highest level. As I have already said, we must keep our promises. In recent months, Iraq has made visible some international tensions. We must now search together to find solutions for the future. We all face the same danger: that of Iraq falling prey to disorder and instability. The United Nations must be given its place in Iraq and must receive a clearer mandate from the Security Council. At the same time, determined progress must be made towards restoring Iraqi sovereignty. In its national history, Switzerland has a long tradition of harmonious coexistence among its different communities. We well understand that no single political model fits all situations. Nevertheless, Switzerland is ready to share its experience and to provide support for the process of drawing up a new constitution in Iraq. Switzerland joined the United Nations as a neutral country. That does not prevent it from defending the universal values to which it is attached. In this, Switzerland wishes to collaborate with the other Member States, drawing on the strength of the Organization. At this point, I would like to pay tribute to the United Nations and all its staff, who have just suffered a deadly attack in Baghdad. Every day, throughout the world, the United Nations and its specialized agencies do irreplaceable work. The Secretary-General has spoken of peace as a dream in suspense. I believe that this also applies to the other ideals for which the United Nations stands: justice, solidarity and respect for human dignity. Dreams are an essential part of the vision of the United Nations, but so are action, realism, courage and perseverance.   ﻿My delegation is proud and honoured to see Mr. Julian Hunte, a fellow islander, also from one of the smallest nations of the world, presiding over the deliberations of this body. We are well aware of his skills, experience and competence, and we are confident that he will lead our work to a successful outcome. Let me also pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, for his excellent work during the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly. Our appreciation also goes to the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedicated and steadfast leadership of the United Nations during these trying times. We commend him for his tireless efforts to make the United Nations more effective and responsive to the demands of its Members. In recent months, some have questioned the relevance and utility of the United Nations. For 28 Seychelles, the United Nations remains a unique, indispensable and universal multilateral institution where global issues affecting the entire international community can be debated and addressed. We believe that, despite its shortcomings, there is no other institution that is better equipped and better suited to meet the diverse demands for justice, peace, security, development and international cooperation or to ensure that the voices of its Members are heard, irrespective of their size or economic power. We hereby reaffirm our faith in the principles and purposes of the United Nations in addressing the wide range of challenges confronting the international community in the globalized and interdependent world we are living in at the dawn of the twenty-first century. We acknowledge the fact, however, that the United Nations system needs to be reformed and modernized. We support the ongoing initiative to revitalize the General Assembly to make it more effective and efficient. Our Assembly ought to be restored to its rightful place at the centre stage of meaningful deliberations on problems and issues common to all of its Members. We ought to strive to ensure that debate in our Assembly is translated into action. In this respect, my delegation calls for the establishment of a follow-up mechanism to monitor and implement decisions and resolutions taken by the General Assembly, as well as those of the major United Nations conferences of the past decade. The reform process will be inadequate if the transformation of the Security Council into a democratic and representative organ, reflecting its universal character and present-day realities, is not achieved. My delegation supports an increase in both permanent and non-permanent members to include developing countries from Africa, Asia and Latin America. After 10 years of debate, it is imperative that we bridge positions and make progress. What is required is political will by all the parties concerned with a view to arriving at an acceptable solution. We support the decision of the Secretary-General to establish a high-level panel of eminent persons on the reform question. We hope they will provide inspiration and fresh ideas for the way forward. My delegation holds the view that development ought to be central to the renewed United Nations agenda. The reform process should focus on reinforcing the role of the United Nations system in the commitment to international cooperation for development. There should be closer collaboration and coordination between the United Nations system and the international financial institutions in elaborating novel frameworks to address development funding. The ongoing dialogue between the Economic and Social Council and the Bretton Woods institutions should be vigorously pursued. We welcome the dialogue between the leaders of the Group of Eight and their counterparts from the developing world. Those consultations should be a platform to engage the industrialized countries of the North in fulfilling their commitments to the outcomes of the major conferences, in particular the Millennium Summit, the Doha Development Round, the Monterrey Consensus and the Johannesburg Plan of Action. Our development partners should realize that the implementation of their commitments is vital if we, the developing countries, are to achieve sustainable development. Their words must, indeed, be matched with deeds. The allocation of the agreed target of 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product for international development should be an achievable objective. This dialogue should also provide an opportunity for us to candidly discuss issues that are of common interest and concern. Problems requiring urgent attention, such as HIV/AIDS, poverty, the root causes of terrorism, the debt burden, refugees, trade terms, trafficking in humans, climate change and environmental degradation, to name just a few, should be addressed as part and parcel of shared international responsibilities. The situation of small island developing Sates will feature high on the international agenda next August when Mauritius hosts the International Meeting for the 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action. It will be a timely occasion to reaffirm the special characteristics, vulnerabilities and concerns of small island developing States and to consider their prospects for sustainable development. It will be an occasion to remind the international community to pay greater attention to the social, economic and environmental vulnerabilities faced by small island developing States. The Mauritius review will present the opportunity to assess implementation progress to date and establish the appropriate framework for further partnership and 29 cooperation in achieving the sustainable development aspirations of small island developing States. We will need the required resources to advance implementation. We therefore appeal to our development partners for their fullest support in the review process and the implementation of the outcome of the Mauritius International Meeting. My delegation notes with concern the breakdown of negotiations at the recent World Trade Organization ministerial conference in Cancún. Small developing countries have no capacity whatsoever to distort world trade. It is therefore imperative that their vulnerabilities and special needs be taken fully in account. Seychelles urges the international community to heed the call for special and differential treatment to be accorded to developing countries, in particular small island States, that have structural disadvantages. This is crucial to the integration of our countries into the multilateral trading system so that we can achieve our development objectives. Concessions to small, vulnerable developing economies should include the critical areas of market access and trade preferences. The second pillar of my country’s economy — tuna fisheries — faces a real threat. There will be considerable social and economic consequences for us if the preferential treatment on which the industry was built is to be abandoned. After all, the trade regime is meant to provide benefits for all, not to condemn the most fragile and vulnerable groups of the international family to marginalization and economic strangulation. A subject of preoccupation to my delegation is the adverse impact of climate change. Studies, as well as experience, have revealed that extreme changes are taking place in the climate patterns of the Western Indian Ocean region. Over recent years my country has experienced unusual periods of drought and torrential rainfall, the latter causing floods, landslides, the destruction of agricultural crops and infrastructure and even loss of life. It is estimated the 75 per cent of the corals in our archipelago have been bleached due to an increase in sea surface temperatures. Global warming is not an issue of our making. Small island nations like mine are not responsible for it, yet we have to bear the consequences. This growing threat calls for renewed concerted international action, as it is affecting the whole planet. All nations must take steps to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. The industrialized countries have the prime responsibility and must be the first to take action. We urge them to be accountable under the Kyoto commitments and to ratify the treaty, as this is the only appropriate multilateral framework that can address and respond to this phenomenal challenge facing all nations on earth. Last year the General Assembly endorsed the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), as the framework for development for the continent. International support for the implementation of this home-grown initiative is essential. We appreciate the pledges of support by the G-8 by means of their Africa Action Plan. We hope that this will soon evolve into the realization of concrete projects and programmes. My delegation is of the view that there should be provision in the NEPAD development agenda to take into account the peculiar problems and specificities of the eight island nations that constitute the African family. The 19 August attack on the United Nations compound in Baghdad serves as the latest reminder to all of us of the central importance of being vigilant and prepared to combat terrorism. Seychelles reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all its manifestations. We are in the process of finalizing our accession to the 12 United Nations conventions and protocols on terrorism. We are actively cooperating with the Counter-Terrorism Committee in the implementation of the obligations of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Complying with the obligations of this Security Council resolution is a daunting task for a very small country like mine, with extremely limited capacity to deal with the relevant requirements. We will do our share as part of our responsibility, but to succeed we need technical and financial assistance. There is also the need to ensure that the capacities of small States are enhanced through sharing of intelligence information, training of personnel, and the provision of appropriate technology and equipment, for example, to deal with and handle the new challenges we have to confront. We hope the international community will be attentive and responsive to our predicament. The conflict in the Middle East has brought about too much suffering and destruction. My delegation supports the road map for peace and calls on all parties to the conflict to embark on genuine and substantive dialogue and negotiations in the interest of durable 30 peace in the region. We reaffirm our belief in the rights of the Palestinian people to their own independent State, with clearly defined borders. We welcome all efforts in facilitating the search for an enduring solution to the conflict. As regards the situation in Iraq, my delegation hopes that full sovereignty will be restored to the Iraqis as soon as possible, and that a credible and widely accepted political road map will be drawn up and implemented. We believe that the United Nations should have a central role to play in the process. When Assembly President Julian Hunte assumed office, he appealed for an action-orientated and proactive General Assembly. I give him the assurance that, albeit in a modest manner, he will receive the full- hearted support of the Seychelles delegation for a productive and fruitful session.﻿Again this year, we are meeting to assess our actions and to define approaches that can breathe new life into the Organization. Far from becoming a routine, our annual meeting is the high point in the life of the Organization, in that it offers to each Member State, through a frank and constructive debate, an opportunity 6 to make its contribution to the building of peace and security, which are indispensable to the just and lasting development of our countries. It is also an opportunity for us to reaffirm the paramount role of the United Nations in the world and to find appropriate ways to strengthen the Organization further. Before I proceed, let me express — on behalf of the President of the Togolese Republic, His Excellency Mr. Gnassingbé Eyadema, and of the Government and the people of Togo, whom I have the honour to represent at this rostrum — my warm congratulations on the election of Mr. Julian Hunte as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. Our congratulations go also to the other members of the Bureau. They can be assured of the full availability and cooperation of the Togolese delegation. I should also like to express our appreciation and profound gratitude to Mr. Hunte’s predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, who led the work of the fifty-seventh session of the Assembly with dexterity and skill. To the Secretary-General, we reaffirm how much we admire him for the work that he continues to lead at the head of the Organization. This General Assembly session is taking place at a particular time of evolution for the United Nations. Indeed, in the light of the grave events being experienced by today’s world, the United Nations needs more than ever before to be strengthened so that it can fully accomplish the primary tasks entrusted to it by the Charter: inter alia, maintaining international peace and security and serving as a forum where the efforts of nations can be harmonized towards the achievement of collective development and shared well-being. It is obvious that the Organization’s purposes and principles retain all their relevance and remain guideposts for action on the part of the international community. In my delegation’s view, this session must intensify its reflection with a view to defining new approaches that will enable the United Nations to search for more viable and lasting solutions to the problems of peace, security and development, which daily challenge the entire international community. We must therefore support United Nations actions, especially at a time when peoples are aspiring to more freedom and democracy and to greater involvement in the management of civic affairs. The democratic wind that is blowing through our country is far more than an irresistible movement for renewal; it holds immense hopes for our people. For Togo, that is what has justified the people’s support for the political reform that the Government has been undertaking for more than a decade and a half. Here, I should like to recall the faith and determination with which the Togolese Government — spurred on by of its head of State — is striving to build a democratic society that will take everyone’s legitimate aspirations into account and that is rooted in the country’s sociological realities. In essence, we are engaged in this democratization process in the conviction that the task — which will be long-term — requires much resolve, patience and self-sacrifice. From this rostrum, I should like to stress that, through the recent presidential election — which was free, honest and fair in the general view of observers — a broad majority of the Togolese people demonstrated their political maturity and their keen sense of the general interest, which must take precedence over partisan and personal interests. In any event, I can assure the Assembly that the Togolese people — who know how to go the extra mile — are determined to move forward. The Government, for its part, is resolved to continue the process of democratization and establishing the rule of law, strengthening its foundations through the local and senatorial elections whose preparations are now under way. One can never emphasize enough that the difficulties related to the whole democratization process are not limited to one country or to a specific group of countries; they are inherent in any endeavour whose objective is to involve people in the management of public affairs. The path towards democracy is long and fraught with pitfalls, but we are working tirelessly to provide the country with democratic institutions which are indispensable to the proper functioning under a rule of law. The quest for democracy — a contemporary development that Togo fully endorses — is a complex undertaking that requires time. Indeed, democracy can take shape only in an environment of peace and security, which alone can guarantee gradual assimilation of democratic values that are well understood and that emanate from the wisdom of the culture and traditions of the peoples concerned. In that spirit, Togo is striving to establish the rule of law in the hope that we will be understood by our partners. 7 Today, we can affirm that, despite the difficulties besetting our march towards the establishment of democracy, encouraging and concrete results have been achieved. Above and beyond institutional development, ensuring full human rights in all their aspects is a paramount necessity. Here, we wish to emphasize the Togolese Government’s primary concern to guarantee and promote the economic, social and cultural rights of all Togolese citizens. The realization of those rights is of particular importance, for in them lie the interests of democracy and the stability of the Republic’s institutions. Indeed, if one takes a careful look at Africa’s contemporary history, one will note that the many sudden changes and various attempts challenging democratic institutions in some countries result less from a misunderstanding of the democratic process than from the economic and financial difficulties felt by various social strata. The success of the democratic undertaking is therefore a function of the economic possibilities of the States that are engaged in it, and establishing institutions requires considerable resources that our countries cannot muster at the current stage of their development without foreign aid. If that observation is universally shared, why impose sanctions against — and suspend cooperation with — a country that, like many other States, has encountered difficulties in implementing its democratization policy and is undertaking notable efforts to establish the rule of law? Does my country, Togo, deserve the treatment that it has received for the past 10 years? I would like, once again, to appeal for the resumption of cooperation with Togo. That is the appeal of an entire people. Peace and security, which reign in Togo, and the outstanding efforts to ensure economic and social development, despite the suspension of aid, clearly support the expectations of the Togolese people. While the elimination of poverty is considered an essential task to be tackled to help a people or a country rebuild, it is also the same thing as giving it the means to consolidate democracy, which is essential to build a more just and peaceful world. The need for solidarity, justice and equity must lead the international community, particularly the European Union and other development partners, to reconsider their position and to commit to supporting the reconstruction effort in Togo, a country that has made peace and security the very foundation of its internal and external policies. That said, Togo believes firmly that the use of sanctions, if not properly measured and without time limits, will only increase people’s poverty, particularly that of women, the elderly and children. Such sanctions provide, therefore, fertile ground for disorder and anarchy. The Assembly must, therefore, think about this question more deeply. Our faith in peace and security is reflected in the concrete results of a bold and visionary economic policy, which is carried out untiringly, despite adverse times. This conviction is also justified by the fact that peace and social cohesion remain, undoubtedly, the basic factors, without which any socio-economic development would be carried out ineffectively and with only illusory results. Peace and security are, therefore, priorities for all countries, whether they are in Africa or elsewhere in the world. At the African level, the head of State of Togo is very engaged in the process of conflict settlement. By way of example, let me recall prior outstanding and effective mediation efforts in which he played a role in settling crises that have afflicted Chad, Sierra Leone, the Great Lakes region, Guinea-Bissau and, most recently, Côte d’Ivoire. Regarding its contribution to peacekeeping operations, I wish to recall that Togo is contributing in a meaningful and active way to the deployment of military or police contingents at the subregional level or in United Nations peacekeeping operations; in Namibia in 1989, in Rwanda in 1993, in Haiti in 1993, in the Central African Republic in 1997, in Guinea- Bissau in 1999, and recently in Côte d’Ivoire and Liberia. With regard to Liberia, we welcome the establishment by the Security Council, on 19 September 2003, of the United Nations Mission in Liberia, which will be deployed on 1 October — in just a few hours. It will contribute to supporting in a meaningful way the peacekeeping force of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). My country, which contributed to restoring that peace by sending a contingent, urges the wealthy countries to contribute to financing the United Nations 8 force in order to provide it with the necessary means to accomplish its mission. In the Great Lakes region, particularly the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Togolese Government hopes ardently that the new stage, characterized by the establishment of a new Government and other transitional institutions, will lead to stability, unity and national reconciliation. In Burundi, my country welcomed the significant progress made on the basis of the Arusha Agreement, and it urges the parties to the conflict to work resolutely toward restoring peace to the country. Togo is very involved in the settlement of disputes in Africa, demonstrating clearly its firm determination to contribute to maintaining and to consolidating peace in the African continent. It was in that context that the President of the Togolese Republic advocated the establishment of an African peacekeeping force at the 1994 summit of the Organization of African Unity. It is worth noting that that idea made headway in the Organization of African Unity, as is attested by the adoption at Durban, South Africa, of a protocol on the establishment of the Peace and Security Council of the African Union, which demonstrates the determination of Africans to be the builders themselves of peace in Africa. It is also comforting to note that, within the context of that protocol, the establishment of a pre- positioned African peace force and a continental early warning system are taking shape. My country is committed to making its contribution to the implementation of this collective approach to questions of defence, peace and security in Africa, and calls on the international community to firmly support the African continent with a view to guaranteeing the success of this effort. Outside of Africa, we are constantly watching Iraq and the Middle East, always in the grip of violence. Regarding the Middle East in particular, my country considers that the definitive settlement of the Palestinian question, which is at the heart of the conflict in the region, necessarily requires the cessation of violence and counter-violence and consideration of the legitimate rights of both people — the right of Israel to live in full security within internationally recognized borders and that of the Palestinian people to fully enjoy their national rights, including the establishment of a State. In that context, we encourage Israelis and Palestinians to pursue dialogue, with a view to achieving a negotiated and comprehensive settlement of the Middle East question. Despite a new environment conducive to economic expansion, poverty continues to increase and remains a striking and paradoxical feature of our era. Peace and security will constantly be threatened if measures of justice are not adopted to push back the borders of poverty that weaken the foundations of our society. The economic situation of developing countries, particularly in Africa, is a matter of great concern. The external debt burden, instability in export income and the devastating effects stemming from deterioration in terms of trade have largely contributed to aggravating the deterioration of socio-economic conditions in many African countries. Speaking of international trade, it is unfortunate to note that, despite liberalization of the economy, industrialized countries continue to practice protectionist measures in the industrial and agricultural sectors. These measures, particularly harmful to developing countries, particularly African countries, impede the efforts made to restore increased export income. Like many other delegations, Togo demands, therefore, that protectionist practices and subsidies be ended. That would contribute significantly to the development of poor countries. We believe that globalization must be accompanied by a greater spirit of solidarity and by a policy aimed at the purchase of products from the South at fairer and more lucrative prices. In that regard, the Togolese Government wishes to emphasize that, if they are to benefit all, the rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO) must take into account the deep aspirations of developing countries, which demand that they be able to participate in international trade in conditions of equality and justice, as recently emphasized at Cancún. At a time when our continent is doing its utmost to make the African Union the priority instrument to ensure peace and security and economic and social prosperity, the international community must become more involved to assist economic recovery efforts of 9 our States, in order to meet the challenges they face, such as poverty, the AIDS pandemic and malaria. It is important that our common Organization mobilize its efforts even more in order to fight the evils that afflict the world and make it vulnerable. Terrorism would definitely be included among those evils. The terrible events of 11 September 2001 and the recent deadly attacks against the United Nations headquarters in Iraq and elsewhere, still alive within us, compel us to act promptly to eradicate this evil. My country, which has frequently been the victim of terrorist aggression, in 1977, 1985, 1986, 1993, 1994 and 1998, recognizes the importance of that challenge. This task should be one of our highest priorities if we wish to give future generations a sound world, in which respect for human dignity, love and fraternity are the foundation. In order to achieve those aims, the United Nations must assume greater responsibility and provide more resources. It certainly needs to be substantially reformed. We would like to welcome the relevant proposals of the Secretary-General to establish a panel of eminent personalities from civil society to address this issue. We remain convinced that our actions, taken together, will lead to the reign of a society free from selfishness, violence, terrorism, disease and the threat of nuclear confrontation. May the work of this session lead each of our States to resolutely follow the path towards peace and ensure that all peoples, without discrimination, can enjoy the fruits of progress made by humanity in a climate of tolerance, justice, fraternity and solidarity. ﻿It is indeed a signal honour for me to extend to you, Sir and to the Government and people of the sister Caribbean Community (CARICOM) State of Saint Lucia our heartfelt congratulations on your election to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty- eighth session. We are confident that, under your experienced and pragmatic leadership, the Assembly will address in a forthright manner the many and varied challenges which confront the international community. My delegation is equally confident, Sir, that the developing-country perspective that your presidency will bring to our deliberations will serve to highlight the plight of the weak and the vulnerable among us, as we struggle to come to terms with the realities of contemporary international relations. Mr. President, please allow me the opportunity to express our satisfaction at the astute leadership shown by your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, and at the many initiatives that he pursued during his tenure, including those in the areas of institutional strengthening and the prevention of armed conflict, in an attempt to restore to this body its central role, as mandated by the Charter. I also applaud his inclusive approach to advocacy, evinced by his short but fruitful visit to Trinidad and Tobago in February this year to engage in a brief, interactive high-level dialogue with the heads of State and Government of the Caribbean Community on the work of the Assembly and on some of the major issues before this global forum as they relate to small States. It would be remiss of me if I did not compliment the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his sterling performance in the face of the myriad crises since our last session. We have total confidence in his continuing stewardship of this unique world body. My delegation wishes to assure him of the total support of the Government and people of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago for his untiring efforts to ensure the continued relevance of the United Nations in the 10 pursuit and achievement of the Organization’s objectives. Trinidad and Tobago joins the rest of the international community in expressing our profound sorrow at the tragic loss of life suffered most recently by men and women of the United Nations while on a humanitarian mission in Iraq, as a result of the bombing on 19 August 2003 of the United Nations office in Baghdad. We shall forever remember them in our prayers, together with those others who, over the years, have made the supreme sacrifice in selfless service to the Organization and, by extension, to mankind. We are of the view that consideration should be given to the erection of a fitting memorial here, at United Nations Headquarters in New York, to honour all those who have given their lives in the field in the service of the United Nations. The United Nations cannot retreat from its global responsibilities in the face of even such an atrocity. We are firmly convinced that the United Nations — born out of the destruction wrought by the Second World War and representing the collective hope of mankind to spare future generations from the scourge of war — must rise to this difficult challenge and continue to play an even more central and proactive role in managing world affairs, particularly with respect to the maintenance of international peace and security. The challenge before us is to make the world peaceful and secure. That is a particular concern of small States, which must rely on the international rule of law, on the strict observance by all States of the purposes and principles laid down in the Charter of the United Nations, and on the collective security mechanism of the Security Council in order to guarantee their right to a secure, sovereign and peaceful existence. We must therefore work to strengthen the rule of law worldwide as well as the capacity of the United Nations to engage both in conflict prevention and in the management of global crises that disrupt international peace and security. It is also of paramount importance that all Member States commit to and uphold the multilateral approach in our collective efforts to attain those ends. Nowhere is there a more pressing need for peace and security than in the Middle East. Clearly, a just and lasting peace is in the interests of both the Palestinians and the Israelis, who have been constant witnesses to death and destruction in their respective societies and who have watched as their once promising economies have been devastated by the unceasing instability in the region. Peace continues to be elusive, notwithstanding the latest best efforts of the Quartet, whose road map for measured and reciprocal steps within a specific time frame enjoys the support of the overwhelming majority of the international community. There can be no peace and prosperity for that region without the political will of leaders on both sides of the conflict. Neither can there be progress on the path of peace without focused and sustained effort on the part of the international community in providing the necessary political support to the parties directly involved. My delegation is of the opinion that, under the present circumstances, consideration should be given to deployment of a United Nations force so that realistic and mutually acceptable confidence-building measures can be put in place, thereby restoring some measure of security to Palestinians and Israelis alike. In Iraq, the goals of the international community at this time must be the restoration of a climate of peace and security and the creation of the conditions that are necessary for the building by the Iraqi people of a peaceful, secure and prosperous society. The United Nations has a pivotal role to play with regard to both nation-building and the political transition in Iraq. We therefore call for greater coherence among the members of the Security Council, and urge them to adopt such measures as are necessary in the security interests of all concerned to bring that situation within the parameters of international political legitimacy and so give free rein to the aspirations of the Iraqi people. Threats to international peace and security are certainly not posed by State actors exclusively. The activities of organized criminal groups engaged in the illegal drug trade and in the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons pose a serious threat to the peace and stability of some States, despite the efforts made at all levels. Since the events of 11 September 2001, Governments the world over have joined forces even more resolutely in their condemnation of terrorism and have endeavoured to give effect to all the measures called for in the relevant decisions of the Security Council, including by subscribing to all international treaties aimed at combating terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. The international community must, however, also turn its attention once more to 11 addressing the root causes of this now-global phenomenon with a view to alleviating — if not removing altogether — the more pressing concerns that provide a basis for acts of terror. Even as we remain resolute in the war on terrorism, and focus on the traditional issues of peace and security, we must be mindful of the need to make progress on the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals, which world leaders outlined at the Millennium Summit in 2000. The challenges we face are not confined to the issues of peace and security as defined in their traditional sense. Indeed, success in dealing with threats to international peace and security may ultimately depend on the progress we make in overcoming poverty and in dealing with injustice, intolerance, deprivation and diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis and the HIV/AIDS pandemic. The HIV/AIDS pandemic is one of those non- conventional threats that are fast approaching global crises. Even though Africa remains the hardest hit, the disease is spreading fast in Asia and in Eastern Europe. In the Caribbean — which is second only to sub- Saharan Africa in HIV/AIDS prevalence rates — HIV/AIDS is a major development challenge threatening to reverse years of hard-won human development gains and increase poverty levels. The General Assembly has just concluded a high-level debate on HIV/AIDS, and my delegation trusts that that meeting will provide the necessary impetus and lay the groundwork for further meaningful support for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Unless those with the capacity to contribute come forward with additional resources, many, many more lives will surely be lost. Without a secure and peaceful international environment, and in the absence of a sustained effort on the part of our development partners to live up to the commitments made at major United Nations conferences, there can be no meaningful and sustained global economic advancement for Africa as it seeks to implement the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, or for the least developed countries, the landlocked countries or the small island developing States. Trinidad and Tobago continues to attach high importance to the need for the international community to pay special attention to the unique challenges and problems which confront small island developing States and to full and effective implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. It is for that reason that we participated actively last year in the preparatory process for the World Summit on Sustainable Development. We were pleased that the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation reinforced the view that small island developing States are a special case in terms of both the environment and development. The Johannesburg Summit also recognized that, although small island developing States continue to take the lead in the path towards sustainable development, they remain increasingly constrained by the interplay of adverse factors such as their small size, fragility, isolation and vulnerability. It is for this reason that Trinidad and Tobago will play host next week to the Caribbean small island developing States regional preparatory meeting, one of four regional meetings being held by small island developing States in order to identify and develop inputs for the review of the Barbados Programme of Action. Implementation has been the Achilles heel of the Programme of Action. Small island developing States have taken the lead in our efforts to achieve sustainable development. We need, however, the support of the international community. We trust that the international meeting to review the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, to be held in Mauritius in 2004, will not only better enable us to evaluate the Barbados Programme of Action, but ultimately lead to an enhanced level of political commitment and increased financial and technical assistance for small island developing States on the part of the international community. Another issue of the utmost concern to the Government of Trinidad and Tobago and, indeed, to all CARICOM Governments, is the continued trans- shipment of nuclear waste through the Caribbean Sea. The reassurances of adequate safeguards do not constitute guarantees against the potentially devastating impact of an accident on our economies and ecosystems. We therefore once more call upon the States concerned to cease this practice. Recent events have also pointed to the challenges faced by many countries in the area of governance. The Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, 12 which was elected in recent multi-party elections that were peaceful, free and fair, is committed to efficient and transparent Government, to ensuring respect for human rights and the rule of law, to the devolution of resources and decision-making to the local levels of government, and to the meaningful participation of all its citizens in the formulation of public policy. The Government has also set itself the goal of achieving developed country status by 2020, with the aim of providing to all its citizens by that date a high quality of life in all areas, including education, health, employment, housing, transportation, telecommunications, water and electricity. This the Government hopes to achieve by allocating a sizeable portion of its national budget to programmes of human-resource development and of economic infrastructure and institutional development, as well as social programmes aimed at the eradication of poverty. But our national goals can only be achieved if our domestic efforts are complemented by efforts at the international level to achieve greater international economic stability and a more equitable distribution of resources among States, and if the benefits of free trade are more widely shared, particularly by those countries whose incorporation into the world economy places them at a disadvantage vis-à-vis their developed country partners. The new opportunities occasioned by globalization and trade liberalization, which we consider to be a positive force for good, should be available to all, and not to just a privileged few. We must avoid further marginalization of the vulnerable States among us. Given the central role of trade in the achievement of economic expansion, the failure of the recent World Trade Organization meeting in Cancún to agree on issues critical to developing countries does not augur well for our future economic well-being or for that of the least developed, landlocked and small island developing States among us. We are hopeful for greater flexibility on the part of our developed countries’ negotiating partners in Geneva next December, which is necessary if any progress is to be achieved. The quest for economic and social justice for all peoples cannot be divorced from the fervent desire of all peoples to live in freedom and without fear for their lives. The growing religious and ethnic diversity of our societies highlights the ever-present need for mutual respect for and tolerance of the diversity that today is a characteristic of many communities. The lack of such tolerance and respect has fuelled once again in our lifetime the horrific crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. To deter the commission of such crimes in the future, and in order to deal with flagrant abuses of the fundamental human rights and freedom of the individual, including the right to life, liberty and security of the person, the international community established the International Criminal Court (ICC), which this year has made substantial progress in establishing its principal organs, through the election of its Judges, Chief Prosecutor, Deputy Prosecutor and the Registrar. The ICC does not represent victor’s justice, but a universal and shared symbol of morality based on the fundamental principle that those individuals who commit the serious crimes within the jurisdiction of the Court will, with the broad support of the international community, be brought to trial before such a tribunal, but only where their national Governments are unable or unwilling to do so. Trinidad and Tobago remains committed to the efficient and effective functioning of this permanent International Criminal Court, and deplores all efforts to undermine its integrity and the commitment of its States Parties to carry out in good faith the obligations into which they have freely entered through their adherence to the Rome Statute of the ICC. We call for wider adherence to the Statute by all States, so that it may one day have universal application. Only a universal commitment by all States to strive to eliminate the culture of impunity for such heinous crimes will successfully stem the tide of the horrific events that continue to mar our world. Several speakers in this general debate have referred to the crisis in multilateralism and the need for the reform of the United Nations to make it more relevant to present day realities. It is in this context that the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago welcomes the call made by the Secretary- General in his statement to the General Assembly on 23 September for a thorough restructuring of the post- Second-World-War institutional architecture of the United Nations through the reform and strengthening of its major organs. His stated intention to pursue an approach through the modality of a panel of eminent persons enjoys the full support of the Government of Trinidad and Tobago. We would not wish at this time, 13 to prejudge the outcome of the work of such a panel, but would hope that it will recognize the role that small States play in international affairs. We expect the panel’s final recommendations to take the form of specific proposals for amendments to the Charter that will be able to command the widest possible support of the international community at the highest political levels. The reform exercise must have as its ultimate objective the strengthening of the United Nations and an enhancement of its capacity to respond to the new global challenges. We must also ensure that the long overdue reform of the Security Council takes place. Expansion of the Council’s membership to make it more democratic and representative can only confer greater legitimacy on the Council and on the Organization as a whole. Most importantly, we must better empower the General Assembly, the most representative of all the organs of the United Nations, to play its role more effectively as the chief deliberative and policy-making organ of the Organization. No other institution has the inclusiveness or the legitimacy that the United Nations has. We must therefore spare no effort to make it a more effective instrument in the service of all the peoples of the world. In conclusion, the stark international situation calls for more, not less, international cooperation in facing the countless challenges that confront countries large and small. We must seek to implement urgently new and better policies aimed at the prevention of armed conflict. We must make fuller use of the few opportunities for economic and social progress that present themselves. We must demonstrate the necessary political will to maintain a peaceful and secure international environment that is conducive to the uplifting and well-being of all humanity.  ﻿It is always a special opportunity for the leader of his country to speak to this General Assembly. My speech will be brief and may be summed up at the very outset in very few words as follows: I am speaking to you as the President of a European democratic country involved in sustainable development. My compatriots especially value the existence of freedom and respect for the law as factors for progress in Spain. We think these two values, freedom in all areas of life and compliance with the law comprise the best recipe for progress among peoples. The last twenty-five years of progress in my country have fortunately coincided with the change in the millennium. Freedom of opinion, peaceful political choice and the broadening of fundamental rights have become values which enhance us. Of course, this has not been accomplished without effort and risks along the way. However, I now have the satisfaction of speaking of that progress. The culture of community upon which this democracy is based is openly expressed by the Spanish people of the Iberian Peninsula and we are celebrating this during the commemoration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of our Constitution. We are an open country, trusted throughout the world, and we wish the same principles and situation for others. The determination to increase freedom throughout the world and the concern to ensure that laws of the international community are complied with are values that guide our international policies. We share this position with many countries present here. The world would be a better place if the rules we make for ourselves are complied with and if those who breach them know that their non-compliance will not prevail. The United Nations embodies international legality. Compliance with its resolutions is in the interest of all. This is the best way to build a world in keeping with law rather than tyranny, with freedom rather than oppression. It is probably for this purpose that the Security Council and the Organization require reform. Without doubt, this is a complex issue and we support efforts being made in this connection by the Secretary- General. In any case, we bear in mind that increasing the number of Security Council Members will not necessarily increase the effectiveness of the Council. But above all, the United Nations needs its own Members to respect its resolutions. A resolute effort on the part of all countries is necessary to ensure a more secure, yet freer world. Although violations of Security Council resolutions exist, all of us must ensure that the resolutions are complied with. All of us must lend a hand because it is in the interest of all for the ideals of the United Nations to become a reality. Thus, we are committed to security, stability and the reconstruction of Iraq. We also are committed to returning sovereignty to the Iraqi people. We spare no effort and do not wish to dwell on the past. We believe that successful results in Iraq will be due to the efforts of the entire international community. We think that the pledging conference to be held in Spain on 23 and 24 October will be a big stride. I would like, from this rostrum, to invite all of you to participate in that conference. Allow me to present some more concrete ideas. Our efforts must be directed towards restoring the sovereignty of the Iraqi people in a way which will enable them to freely enjoy their own resources. For that purpose there should be an agreement reached to establish a multinational force with the clear mandate of guaranteeing peace and security. Given the situation today in Iraq with its high risk of terrorism, this task cannot be entrusted to a mere interposed force, but rather to one that will specifically ensure peace, security and stability. An additional agreement on the civil administration of Iraqi resources and public services for the people would be easier to obtain after that. I am referring to a civil administration directed by the United Nations with the participation of the new leaders who would be representing a peaceful and pluralistic Iraq. 37 Peace, security and freedom have always had enemies and we cannot close our eyes where such threats exist. We have been the victims of blind terrorist violence in this Organization. We cannot forget that vile and cowardly attack in Iraq by which terrorists hoped to expel the United Nations from Iraq and close it off from the world. The States who flout international law are threatening what is dearest to us, our lives and our freedom. Proliferation of weapons of mass destruction would be even more dangerous. I firmly believe that commitment and true cooperation between all States will make it possible to win victory over terror. Last May, Members of the Security Council shared some considerations concerning the fight against terrorism to which I refer now. We will continue to work on preparing a list of terrorist organizations — things should be called by their proper names — and there should be no political or moral quarter given to assassins. Our priorities must be set. We will shut down the sources of financial support to terrorists and will prevent their access to weapons of mass destruction. The treaties on disarmament with regard to nuclear, chemical and biological weapons will help with this task. To prevent and intercept the trafficking of weapons of mass destruction, a group of countries has implemented the Proliferation Security Initiative whose first meeting took place in Madrid last June. I invite you also to join that Initiative. We would like to give a voice to the victims of terrorism and for this, three things are required. We must restore truth, regain dignity and pay tribute to the victims of terrorism. If terrorists have sometimes used public tribunals, it is a moral necessity to give an institutional forum to the victims where they can be heard. We must unmask the terrorists and truly listen to the victims. It has been rightly said, Sir, that the United Nations has not been established to create paradise in the world, but rather to keep the world from falling into an abyss. There is no paradise on earth. Efforts are being made to ensure that the world will be freer and more peaceful and to distance us from the abyss, efforts which make it possible for this Organization to make its lofty ideas a reality. It is hoped that no effort will be spared in this undertaking.  ﻿I would first like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. You have an important and challenging task ahead. In executing your duties, you can be assured of my full support and that of the Maltese delegation. I take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the outgoing President of the fifty-seventh session, Mr. Jan Kavan, for the dedication and initiative with which he accomplished his task. I would also like to express our support for the Secretary-General. The past 12 months have been a particularly difficult time for him and for the Organization he serves so well. We respect and admire the patience, tact, wisdom and determination that he has once again demonstrated in these trying times. The attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on 19 August has added an unwelcome dimension of tragedy and urgency to this year’s session of the General Assembly. Our thoughts are with the relatives and friends of the victims, to whom we again express our deepest condolences. Not for the first time in its history the United Nations is mourning the violent death of its talented servants in the course of their duty. Besides being a human tragedy, it was indeed — for the first time — also a direct and deliberate attack on the United Nations itself. In this sense, an analysis of the implications of the attack in Baghdad needs to form an integral part of the broader considerations relating to the structures and objectives of the international system. The reality is that in the United Nations the international community has a system that is both vital and indispensable. However, it is also a fact that the international community has taken this system for granted for too long. Events over the last few weeks and months constitute a renewed reminder that urgent reform is necessary. We need to heed the Secretary- General’s advice that this action has to be radical. One important element in the process of building international cooperation and solidarity lies in the regional dimension. That dimension was given its importance in the original architecture of the United 25 Nations Charter. Over the last 12 months Malta, together with nine other countries, successfully concluded negotiations to join one of the most creative and impressive manifestations of regional cooperation: the European Union. The results of those negotiations were confirmed by the people of Malta, first in a referendum and subsequently in the general elections held earlier this year. Our desire to join the European Union stems primarily from our appreciation of both the history and the present reality of the European- Mediterranean region, and of Malta’s place and role in that region. At the same time, for Malta, the objective of membership in the European Union has also been a further means of deepening and reinforcing its longstanding commitment towards international cooperation and solidarity. We are gratified to see how the European Union is fast becoming one of the main partners of the United Nations in the collective endeavour towards global cooperation and solidarity. We are encouraged to discover how much that partnership enhances the opportunities for even the smaller members to play a positive and constructive role in many issues of global concern. Among such issues, the question of security in all of its complex dimensions has assumed formidable proportions this year. One of the more disturbing aspects in that regard is the way in which the different dimensions of terrorism and arms control have become intertwined. That link has become a factor in the sometimes differing perceptions of the sources of the security risks faced by States. In turn, that has led to differences of emphasis in action priorities, even among States with otherwise very convergent policies and approaches. When such differences are reflected within the Security Council itself, there is a risk of erosion to the still fragile structure of international legitimacy. On the question of Iraq in particular, it is critically important for the Security Council to reach early agreement on the role the United Nations must play in the re-establishment of order and legitimacy in that country. We strongly urge all members of the Council, in particular the permanent members, to spare no effort to achieve that objective. The question of armaments today confronts us in its bewildering complexity. At one extreme is the outrageous reality of child soldiers brandishing lethal conventional weapons. At the other extreme is the increasingly credible prospect that terrorist groups will procure and use weapons of mass destruction to bring major tragedy and destruction to the hearts of States. These extremes have intruded into the more traditional disarmament process that has itself been moving forward hesitantly and intermittently over the years. Yet however hesitant and intermittent it may be, the disarmament process has produced some results upon which we can build further. A range of agreements and instruments are already available concerning both weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. The more immediate challenges in this regard lie in the areas of compliance and verification. Over recent months, the European Union has been working on a comprehensive security strategy on the issues of non-proliferation and weapons of mass destruction. One of the key principles underpinning this strategy is the need to uphold and implement the multilateral treaties and agreements that exist in this area. Equally important is the need to support the multilateral institutions charged with verifying and ensuring compliance with these agreements. Primary among these institutions is the United Nations. Terrorism in our day is a phenomenon that is unprecedented in terms of motivation, tenacity and methods. Over the past 12 months terrorist acts have indiscriminately struck peoples, both in areas of active conflict and elsewhere. The counter-terrorism measures put in place following the attack here in New York on 11 September 2001 provide us with tools which can have an effect if applied forcefully, universally and consistently. Our response must remain adamant and clear. At the same time, as the Secretary-General reminds us, while there is an unquestionable need to confront terrorist groups with determination, this should never be at the expense of the commitment to human rights. The objective of increased security at the global level demands efforts across a range of widely different fronts, ranging from issues relating to peacemaking and peacekeeping, to issues relating to economic and social development. The United Nations has a steady record of positive involvement in peacekeeping. The recent experiences in Sierra Leone, Timor-Leste and Kosovo provide encouraging instances of this. The Secretary- General reminds us that peacekeeping efforts, and especially what he terms “robust” peacekeeping, must 26 be provided with both the necessary capabilities and an adequate mandate. He also correctly points out that peacekeeping must be preceded by effective action towards conflict resolution. The question of Palestine is one issue with regard to which sustained efforts at conflict resolution have not yet prevailed. Over the past few weeks we have been witnessing the gradual disintegration of yet another major and sustained effort at peacemaking in that region. The immediate obstacles to peace in Palestine arise from two contrasting directions. On the one hand is the reality of an illegal occupation of territory originally achieved, and continuously maintained, by armed force. On the other is the reality of a resistance to this occupation that uses unacceptable means of civilian terror and destruction to pursue its ends. These two realities feed upon each other in a vicious cycle of ever-escalating hatred and violence. Perhaps the most frightening aspect of the situation in Palestine is the fact that each successive failure of effort towards peacemaking ratchets up the level of hatred and violence. The international community needs to find a way of breaking the conditionality which makes the two extremes feed upon each other. Israel needs to clearly recognize the illegality of its presence in the occupied territories. This implies the reversal of the measures that are accompanying this occupation — in particular the building and maintenance of settlements and the construction of the partition wall on Palestinian territory. Furthermore, the support of the chosen leadership of the Palestinian people is necessary if progress towards peace and stability is to be achieved. In this spirit, we call upon Israel to desist from any act of deportation and cease any threat to the safety of the elected President of the Palestinian Authority. For their part, the Palestinians must recognize that all violent acts against civilians are unacceptable and must stop unconditionally. The Palestinian Authority needs to assert its control and prevent any further acts of terrorism. In spite of the latest setbacks, the approach by the Quartet still needs to be supported and encouraged. By virtue of its composition, the Quartet offers the best prospects for finding ways of breaking the conditionality that feeds the extremes on both sides. The hope remains that, at the core of both the Israeli and the Palestinian populations, the desire for peace and reconciliation is stronger than the delirium of fear and hatred. Malta always views the problem of Palestine from the perspective of its effect on issues of security and cooperation in the Mediterranean. Our membership of the European Union will provide us with enhanced opportunities to intensify our traditional role in this regard. Progress in the process of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation has been slow but steady since the European Union launched its Euro-Mediterranean initiative in 1995. The process has itself been affected by the vicissitudes of the situation in Palestine over these years. Yet the general trend has remained positive, even in the most difficult of times. The recent resolution of the Lockerbie issue further helps in creating the right atmosphere for enhanced regional cooperation. It is now our hope that the work of the Secretary-General, accompanied by the efforts of persuasion of the European Union, will succeed in resolving one of the still outstanding problems in our region — the problem of Cyprus. Malta would welcome in May next year the integration of a reunited Cyprus into the folds of the European Union. One of the major strengths of the Euro- Mediterranean process lies in the linkage that it maintains between security issues and wider issues of cooperation in the economic and humanitarian fields. In his report this year, the Secretary-General underlines the fact that issues related to development form an important part of the commitments undertaken under the Millennium Declaration. The Secretary-General notes that a stronger consensus has been forged on this issue. But he also cautions that grave doubts remain as to whether Member States are sufficiently determined to act on this consensus. The failure of the World Trade Organization meeting in Cancún last week highlights the difficulties inherent in translating broad consensus into concrete action. In the area of trade, as in other areas of development, it is indeed the case that globalization has exposed a major disequilibrium and great inequalities in the international arena. In some respects it has also exacerbated the injustices arising from those 27 inequalities. There is an even greater need, therefore, for the international community to persevere in its efforts towards more concrete and effective measures of consensus-building. The high-level meeting on HIV/AIDS that recently concluded highlights the way in which problems that have a global dimension need to be tackled. The problem of AIDS also underlines the importance of continuing efforts towards norm-setting in the various dimensions of international life. The practice of holding annual treaty events, instituted following the Millennium Summit, has proved its value in this regard. This year’s event is focusing on Treaties against transnational organized crime and terrorism. On that occasion, Malta will be depositing its ratification of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and two of its protocols. We will have thus already ratified or acceded to 11 of the 15 Treaties on which the Secretary-General has focused for this year’s event. One area where norm setting is in its early stages concerns the issue of cloning. Malta approaches this issue from a moral and ethical standpoint based on the deepest respect for human life. We believe that while scientific considerations are sometimes relevant in matters of this nature, final decisions must primarily be based on fundamental human, ethical and moral considerations. In this spirit, the draft resolution proposing a convention that bans all forms of human cloning fully reflects our views. For this reason we will support this draft resolution. At the same time, we also believe that on issues of such deep ethical and moral sensitivity, real progress can only be achieved through consensus. The issues before the General Assembly are many and wide-ranging. Such a dense and varied agenda confirms the relevance and vitality of our Organization. At the same time, it also points to the problems regarding the effectiveness and functionality about which so many of us are concerned. I trust that under your guidance, Mr. President, the Assembly will find the wisdom and energy to clearly define its priorities and take the necessary action. I wish you every success in your endeavours. ﻿Allow me at the outset, on behalf of my delegation and in my personal capacity, to extend my warmest congratulations to Mr. Julian Robert Hunte on his election to preside over our work. My country's delegation and I wish him every success and assure him of our full cooperation in bringing his noble mission to fruition. I should also like to pay a tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for the skill and competence with which he guided the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I take this opportunity to congratulate Secretary- General Kofi Annan on the skill and dynamism with which he has led our Organization and on his unflagging attention to the people of Burundi in helping them to emerge from the serious crisis they have experienced for the past 10 years. I should also like to voice our profound gratitude to the Security Council for its ongoing readiness and manifest determination to assist the Government and people of Burundi in the quest for a lasting solution leading to peace and national reconciliation. The regular visits of the Security Council to my country have encouraged the inter-Burundian peace process and sent a message of hope to a people severely battered by war. Since the signing of the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement for Burundi on 28 August 2000, the peace process under way in my country has made significant progress. Since 1 November 2001, we have had transitional institutions uniting all the political factions of the country. Since then, effective administrative reforms have been undertaken and reforms planned for the judiciary are gradually being made as funding becomes available. Furthermore, the people of Burundi and the international community were gratified by the transfer of power at the highest level of State, which proceeded smoothly on 30 April 2003, guaranteeing the 2 institutional framework of the Arusha Agreement. The Transitional Government of Burundi is now involved in negotiations with the armed groups in order to achieve a permanent ceasefire agreement and to ensure its effective implementation. Thus, on 7 October 2002, we signed a ceasefire agreement with the factions of the Forces nationales de libÈration-Parti LibÈration du Peuple Hutu (FNL- PALIPEHUTU) and the Conseil national pour la dÈfense de la dÈmocratie-Front pour la dÈfense de la dÈmocratie (CNDD-FDD), led respectively by Alain Mugabarabona and Jean Bosco Ndayikengurukiye. On 2 December 2002, we signed a similar agreement with the principal armed movement of CNDD-FDD led by Pierre Nkurunziza. Today, the Transitional Government is pursuing negotiations with the latter with a view to integrating that group into the Republic's transitional institutions, including the Defence and Security Corps, the National Assembly, the Senate, the Government and the Administration. The most recent negotiations were those organized in Dar es Salaam on 15 September. Dar es Salaam served as the context and opportunity for the presentation and consideration of the strong and effective positions of all concerned. Above all, it provided an opportunity to exchange views and to understand and reaffirm the importance of the central focus of the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement for Burundi and for taking into consideration the national realities that will ensure the maintenance of stability. We refer in particular to respect for the allocations agreed in Arusha; the granting of visibility to CNDD-FDD in the institutions, while avoiding a raising of the stakes and the exclusion of others; the equitable sharing of power; respect for the rights of citizens; and so on. A summit of heads of State was then planned on very short notice to arrive at the conclusions and compromises necessary to the signing of the protocol for the implementation of the ceasefire agreement of 2 December 2002 and for the entry of CNDD-FDD into the transitional institutions. We take this opportunity warmly to thank the heads of State of the region and delegations at that summit for their work leading to the steps already undertaken. These fairly positive results should not blind us to a number of difficulties facing Burundi today. Indeed, the continuation of war is a major obstacle to implementing planned reform, even though the Government is sparing no efforts to meet this great challenge, and its commitment to implement the Arusha Agreement and ceasefire agreement for peace and reconciliation in Burundi speaks for itself. Therefore, we continue to urge leaders of the regional initiative for Burundi, mediators and the international community to step up their pressure on Pierre Nkurunziza's FDD for a ceasefire and integration in institutions, and on Agathon Rwasa's Parti pour la libÈration du peuple Hutu (PALIPEHUTU) to rejoin without further delay the transitional Government of Burundi at the negotiating table, the only appropriate forum to voice its claims. We also urge the international community to make a substantial financial contribution to the African Mission in Burundi, which is crucial to the monitoring of the ceasefire. Finally, the Government of Burundi is impatiently awaiting the establishment of an international judicial commission of inquiry in Burundi, whose work will clearly contribute to helping Burundi to objectively confront the crucial issue of the campaign against impunity. Another major challenge confronting us is economic growth and efforts to combat poverty among our people. Indeed, the people of Burundi are now living in unspeakable poverty. Ten years have so severely devastated the national economy that we no longer have the bare minimum required to sustain social harmony. More than 68 per cent of the population of Burundi is living beneath the poverty level. Of course, we approve of efforts already made by the international community to ensure the survival of my country. But we also ask it to make further efforts to quickly fulfil the promises made in Paris and Geneva. I am pleased to say that the peace process in my country is now developing in a propitious subregional environment recently characterized by significant progress in the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and a democratic breakthrough in Rwanda. That positive change should lead to the definitive end to conflicts and also make possible the international conference on the Great Lakes region, 3 which the Government of Burundi so ardently hopes will take place. We wish to see the peace that we seek for Burundi and its neighbours spread to the entire world. During the Millennium Assembly in September 2000, heads of State and Government agreed, inter alia, to spare no effort to save our peoples from the scourge of war, whether it be civil war or war between States. A decision was also made to increase the effectiveness of the United Nations in the maintenance of peace and security and to take concerted steps to combat international terrorism. On the one hand, we can justly welcome the commitment made by the leaders of the entire world to work for a better planet, and we commend the somewhat positive results in restoring international peace and security. On the other hand, our collective conscience places obligations on us all and requires sustained vigilance and efforts in the face of persistent and serious setbacks endured here and there on the path to international peace and security. Indeed, the world of the twenty-first century has not been spared from the dangers of war, poverty, terrorism, disease and natural disasters. The efforts to combat terrorism that were stepped up by Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) have had mixed results thus far, in view of the frequency and viciousness of terrorist acts throughout the world, from which even our outstanding Organization is not spared. These terrorist attacks have done much to contribute to maintaining a general trend towards over-reliance on the military and the strengthening of doctrines based on preventive attacks, a concept that continues to fuel political and diplomatic debate. Despite the ever-increasing commitment of the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations, hotbeds of tension among or within States have not yet been extinguished and calls for war are enduring and threatening, like the sword of Damocles. Mercenaries are increasingly being used as tools to destabilize sovereign and independent States. The threat of nuclear war continues to loom over us and poison international relations. Trafficking in human beings, a true form of slavery in the twenty-first century, particularly with respect to the child labour market, child prostitution, the use of children as cannon fodder in conflicts and illegal migration continue to be a reality to this day. All these abuses have as a common denominator an attack on human rights and international humanitarian law that the Member States of the United Nations are duty-bound to champion side by side within the framework of multilateralism, one of the most cherished principles of our Organization. In light of the impression that we are experiencing a genuine crisis in the architecture of peace-building and international security, intelligent reform of institutions entrusted with the maintenance of international peace and security is urgently needed to better enable them to meet the security needs of our time. Above all, the revitalization of the General Assembly, the most representative organ of the United Nations, must be tirelessly pursued. Careful consideration should make the General Assembly much more operational and streamlined with respect to its working methods and, in particular, to impartial follow-up and implementation of its resolutions and decisions. Reform of the Security Council in all its aspects also continues to be a top priority for us, as the Millennium Declaration stressed, to meet the concerns about the regional balance of its membership. The credibility of the Council and our Organization are at stake here. Moreover, multilateralism must remain a common pillar for us all, as one of the fundamental values that should underpin international relations in the framework of active solidarity and shared responsibilities, under the aegis of our Organization. We also appeal for regular voluntary financing of United Nations peacekeeping operations and support for mechanisms of regional and subregional conflict- prevention and promotion of political stability, with particular attention given to Africa. There is no need to recall that our world is increasingly characterized by growing interdependence, conflicts, pandemics and natural disasters that have repercussions that know no borders between States. Economic and social imbalances that result from the unfair and non-inclusive international financial structure prevent us from efficiently tackling today's very complex challenges. The needs and interests of developing countries have not been sufficiently taken into account. The gulf between rich 4 and poor is widening. We therefore have a common duty to establish an environment that will benefit all poor peoples. With respect to cooperation for development, the fight against poverty remains a priority. Attaining the goals set at the international level during major conferences and summits involves the elimination of poverty and hunger, in particular in rural areas. This implies, among other things, significant investment in the agricultural and rural sectors geared towards increasing production and protecting the environment. We are all aware that, in order to be successful, the development efforts of poor countries require multifaceted international support. To that end, the commitments undertaken at the Monterrey conference regarding aid to development are encouraging, but we must promptly move from good intentions to specific deeds. The least developed countries have weak and marginalized economies within the international financial system. They therefore require particular attention in terms of official development assistance, direct foreign investment, debt relief, the strengthening of capacities and access to international markets. We also urge the international community to advance the integral implementation of the Almaty plan of action as a response to the specific difficulties linked to the distance to the sea and to high costs of transportation that seriously handicap the economic development of landlocked countries. Africa is the continent where the ills of destitution have attained an alarming level. In a shared impetus, Africans have created the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). The warm welcome the international community gave to NEPAD must be backed by concrete gestures of solidarity. Thus, the spirit of partnership, which also entails the active participation of local authorities and associations of civil society, can, in fact, become a reality and allow our continent to benefit from its immense riches down to a grassroots level. The rules of the World Trade Organization need to be made more flexible to allow developing countries to benefit from the liberalization of world trade. The initiatives already undertaken along these lines in Doha deserve to be further intensified. There is a need to end all forms of subsidies for products exported from rich countries, which lead to distorted exchange rates, as well as various non-tariff obstacles. The international community must also work to remedy the instability of the prices of commodities, which are the major source of revenue for poor countries. Another major challenge is overcoming the HIV/AIDS pandemic and halting malaria and tuberculosis in tropical countries. AIDS is a threat to mankind. It is devastating entire populations, making millions of children defenceless orphans and swallowing up all development efforts. Faced with this common danger, urgent action is necessary. We herald the establishment in January 2002 of the Global Fund to combat these three scourges, and we urge those countries that have the financial and scientific means to do so to step up their efforts to limit and ultimately stamp out those disasters. I would not like to end without emphasizing again the critical role that the United Nations Charter bestows on our Organization in its sacred mission of humanizing international relations each day and contributing to building a better world. The obstacles in the path of the United Nations are not inevitable; rather, they are an opportunity to meet new challenges and adapt the Organization to achieve the objectives of the Charter and those of the Millennium Declaration. ﻿At the outset, like my colleague from Armenia, I would like to express my highest tribute to the memory of the outstanding individuals whose tragic loss is a blow to the international community that is absolutely beyond repair. The assassination of Anna Lindh, the Foreign Minister of Sweden, has demonstrated once again the risk involved in noble dedication to public service in a world exposed to senseless acts of violence and has filled people all over the world with the deepest sorrow. The death of Sergio Vieira de Mello and his staff members came as a shock to the international community. The question is, why were they killed? That horrible act of terror seems to be highly symbolic because, in the words of the Secretary-General, it directly challenges the vision of global solidarity and collective security rooted in the Charter of the United Nations. Sadly, that is the context in which we must address the concerns on our domestic and international agendas. Last year, when addressing the Assembly, I put forward a proposal to prepare a new act for the United Nations at the dawn of the twenty-first century. I was persuaded then, as I am now, that such a document could give fresh impetus to the principles and mechanisms of the United Nations in a changing world. It should entail the elaboration of a new catalogue of norms of international conduct in the face of the security threats and global challenges of today. Developments on the international scene since I put forward that initiative have strengthened my belief that the United Nations would only benefit from a new, strong political signal reconfirming its role as a beacon of stability and a reliable instrument for managing change. I believe that the best way to create the proper conditions for an unconstrained debate on the future of the United Nations is to engage outstanding public figures of international stature in an informal setting. I suggested at the time that a group of eminent personalities be charged with the task of producing an outline of the document, which would then be submitted for assessment by Member States. The composition of the group should ensure its independence, appropriate intellectual format and knowledge of international affairs. In addition, such a group's excellent moral standing and political weight would guarantee that the document designed to serve as an inspiration to Member States would be of the highest value. Thus, an essentially intellectual exercise initiated outside the institutional framework of the United Nations could be transformed into a political process, culminating in the adoption of the new act by the General Assembly. I remain deeply convinced that despite the rapid changes in the international environment precipitated especially after 11 September 2001, the United Nations today almost 60 years after its foundation should retain a central role as a mechanism for resolving global problems and as a guarantor of international legitimacy. 33 It is a great source of satisfaction for me that the Polish initiative corresponds to the thinking of the Secretary-General and his efforts to increase the effectiveness of the United Nations and safeguard the position of the Organization as the most important institution of international security and cooperation. I wholeheartedly support his views on the need for review, and possibly a radical reform, of the international security architecture, as reflected in his latest report on the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration (A/58/323), as well as his timely proposals voiced at the outset of our debate. Indeed, we can no longer safely assume that our current multilateral rules and institutions have the capacity to confront the current array of old and new threats to peace and security. Since I presented my proposal last September, we have consulted extensively with governmental representatives from a number of countries. A rich collection of suggestions and comments has been compiled that will be invaluable in developing the initiative. In the consultation process, we were encouraged by the shared view of many countries as to the need to adapt the United Nations to current challenges. Taking into account the initial outcome of the consultations, the Government of the Republic of Poland has produced a memorandum in which we have sketched a proposed outline of the mandate of the Group of Sages. The initiative, as reflected in the memorandum, is in effect an invitation to a conceptual and holistic reflection on the nature of changes in the international system and on the most desirable vision of a new, more effective international order. It deals with the questions posed by a whole spectrum of present-day challenges, including security risks related to globalization and the emergence of non-State actors, the development gap and international solidarity, governance and subsidiarity. The novel character of today's challenges calls for new ways of thinking and an innovative approach. It is true that protracted regional conflicts remain a very serious source of instability. Yet, along with those traditional threats, today's security environment has been increasingly dominated by a combination of new threats of a more diverse and unpredictable nature. They originate mostly within State borders rather than among States, notably in failing and failed States that are unable to control their own territories, and they are often posed by non-State actors. To use the Secretary-General's terminology, today's threats are both hard' and soft', and they tend to reinforce one another. We are confronted with terrorism that has a global reach, motivated by extremist ideology and unconstrained in its readiness to inflict massive casualties. We are facing a growing risk of proliferation of deadly weapons and the spread of organized crime that often accompanies State failure. These hard' challenges are compounded by chronic underdevelopment in many parts of the world. Soft' threats, such as widespread poverty, deprivation, hunger, malnutrition and rampant infectious diseases, take their tragic toll on peoples living in countries with poor economic growth. These are usually found in regions where development is often thwarted by bad governance and violent internal conflicts that result in large-scale humanitarian crises, massive abuses of human rights, political and social disruption and, ultimately, the collapse of State systems. In the face of the new realities confronting the international community, we need to forge a consensus on the conceptual and political framework for the operation of the United Nations in upcoming decades. In this context, let me stress that my initiative is not intended to revise or change the United Nations Charter, which should remain the basis of international relations. Instead, the New Political Act should place the Charter in the context of the ongoing transformations taking place in the international environment. It should provide a new conceptual framework for, and political interpretation of, the Charter, adapting the United Nations to present-day realities and regulating the Organization's activities in those areas that are not covered by the Charter. It should accomplish that goal by redefining the objectives of the United Nations, identifying new tasks and specifying operational modalities for the Organization. The Millennium Declaration was a clear manifestation of the ability of the Organization to take up new tasks and confront the most pressing challenges. We must make every effort to increase the capacity of the United Nations to achieve the goals set out in that landmark document, and I believe that the New Act could add a political impetus to the continuous work under way to fully implement the Declaration. Yet our experience in the post-cold-war 34 era made clear not just problems related to the capacity of the United Nations, but also the lack of clarity and consensus on certain principles essential for effective action in the new security environment. A source of serious concern is the fact that the lack of an agreed and common interpretation of many terms and principles which are fundamental in the international domain could lead to chaos in international relations. The New Act for the United Nations while taking into account the current changes in the international order should therefore reflect the relations between numerous principles and the international conditions dominated by non- traditional threats. It should examine, for example, questions related to issues such as respect for human rights and the principle of State sovereignty, the right of self-determination and territorial integrity, conflicts and crisis management, and the principle of non- interference in internal affairs. It should also address the possibility of inscribing newly emerged concepts, such as human security and the responsibility of States to protect the vulnerable, into the conceptual basis of the international system. It is a painful reality that the United Nations is deeply divided. This limits its effectiveness and occasionally even calls into question its ability to act. The basic question is, therefore, how can we restore to the United Nations the sense of unity and cohesion embodied in the very name of the Organization? How can we prevent paralysis in management by the United Nations of international security? And how can we adjust the operating principles of the Organization so as to enable those countries that are able and willing to respond adequately to new threats to act within the institutional framework of the United Nations? In my view, this difficult goal is unattainable without a reaffirmation of the United Nations as a community of shared values and shared goals. Such a reaffirmation could reintegrate the Organization and infuse it with a new sense of purpose. Hence, at the core of my initiative there is a need for a profound reflection on the values and principles that bind the international community together and define the behaviour of States towards each other, towards other actors on the international scene and towards their citizens. Let me reiterate once again that Poland strongly supports the Secretary-General's intention to establish a high-level panel of eminent personalities to examine the role of collective action in countering current security challenges and to review the operation of major United Nations organs, with a view to recommending necessary reforms. This idea is in perfect conformity with my initiative. I believe that the ideas which we collected in the course of last year, reflected both in the memorandum of the Polish Government and in the responses of leading experts and scholars, could provide a good starting point and make a useful contribution to the work of the panel. I wish to affirm the strong commitment of my country to ensure the successful outcome of the Secretary-General's initiative. I intend to convey the aforementioned collected comments of eminent intellectuals on the future of the United Nations to the Panel for its consideration. The war against the murderous regime of Saddam Hussain has exposed, in a painful way, the challenges related to the principles and practice of multilateral action and has revealed the unresolved dilemmas in this domain, which in my view should be addressed in the New Political Act for the United Nations. For the time being, though, the international community must focus its attention on the situation on the ground. I believe that the United Nations should be a key factor in post-war Iraq's transition to the rule of law, democracy and independence. The tremendous task of the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Iraq should be shared by the entire international community. We must work out arrangements which will help Iraq assume, as soon as possible, its rightful, dignified place among the nations of the world. For its part, Poland remains committed to the stabilization effort in Iraq. Our participation in that endeavour is guided by the need to create the conditions for the Iraqi people to determine freely their own future and to begin a new chapter in the history of that great nation, leading it to development and prosperity. On Monday, 29 September, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime will enter into force. I am proud that the idea put forward by Poland during the World Ministerial Conference on Organized Transnational Crime, held at Naples in November 1994, was transformed with the broad support of the international community into a binding United Nations Convention. 35 ﻿Mr. President, I would like to congratulate you most warmly on your election as President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, whose proceedings will undoubtedly benefit from your personal qualities and your skills and experience in international relations. I am also certain that you are an excellent successor to an excellent predecessor. I would like also to pay tribute to our Secretary- General, for his determined efforts and dedication to the service of world peace and the fulfilment of the purposes of the United Nations. The current session of the General Assembly takes place in a complex international situation characterized by mounting threats that imperil the purposes and role of our Organization. Indeed, recent developments have marked the opening of a new phase of instability, uncertainty and apprehensiveness, highlighting the dangers arising from the side-stepping of our Organization in the conduct of world affairs. More than ever before, the Organization’s irreplaceable role is brought to the fore, as a universal forum responsible for maintaining an international order based on peace, security and cooperation for development. The international community finds itself squarely faced with the duty to restore its cohesion and mobilize its means and energy towards full rehabilitation of the United Nations, through the upholding, by all, of the Charter’s purposes and principles, which constitute the indispensable foundations for a civilized international society. We have to revive the strong momentum gained as a result of the Millennium Summit and further enhanced and carried forward through the role played by the United Nations in organizing a collective response against terrorism in the wake of the wanton attacks of 11 September 2001. Those attacks were truly barbaric. Peace, security, and development issues are at the core of the mission of our Organization. Today, they require a renewal of our commitment to international cooperation, especially since we live in an increasingly interdependent world, where problems are also closely interrelated. We strongly support the view that the United Nations remains the best place where Member States should join in collective endeavours in their quest for the common good. We should cooperate within the framework of our Organization and work together to promote development and compliance with international law, in order to lay the foundations for a stable and secure world rooted in solidarity. 13 Therefore, strengthening our Organization and improving its effectiveness stands as a collective task, a top priority and a shared responsibility of all Member States that seek to prevent crisis situations, address threats to international peace and security, and ensure necessary conditions for sustainable development. Among the challenges that should be confronted by the international community, I will dwell on terrorism first, because preventing and combating terrorism still requires a high level of vigilance, mobilization and multifaceted cooperation at the national, regional and international levels. At the risk of repeating ourselves, we will continue to warn against all misconceptions and the tendentious association of terrorism with a particular religion, civilization or geographical area. Equally, we need to agree upon an accurate definition of terrorism, so as not to affect national liberation struggles and the legitimate right of peoples to self-determination. Such a clarification should be provided as part of the draft global convention against terrorism, currently on the international agenda. Launching a genuine dialogue among cultures and civilizations will be helpful in fostering rapprochement and understanding among peoples, by combating prejudiced viewpoints and narrow-minded perceptions. Situations will still be tense wherever peoples are deprived of their rights, and denied freedom and dignity. This is the case in Palestine, where the Palestinian people are still denied the enjoyment of their right to exist, despite the universal recognition of their national rights today. The prevarication, delaying tactics and systematic repression used by Israel for decades to defer the settlement of the Palestinian problem, have now led to an explosive situation that seriously threatens regional and global peace and security. The international community should become involved in a more decisive manner to put an end to this spiralling situation, and firmly urge Israel to fully cooperate for a global, just and lasting solution which necessarily includes the establishment of an independent and fully sovereign Palestinian State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, and the withdrawal from the Lebanese and Syrian territories remaining under occupation. In this same sensitive region, the Iraqi people’s tragic predicament endures. We must emphasize the urgent need to help them establish their own independent institutions, to exercise unhindered control over their economy and natural resources and to maintain their unity and territorial integrity. In our opinion, only the United Nations can legitimately and effectively accompany the institution-building and reconstruction of the country, and its role in these processes is of paramount importance. In our immediate region, in Western Sahara, the people of this territory, 28 years after withdrawal of the former colonial Power, are still waiting for the right to exercise in freedom, and without constraint, their inalienable right to self determination in compliance with international legality. Algeria has consistently lent its support to the efforts of the Secretary-General and his personal envoy, as evidenced by its support of the Settlement Plan and the Huston Agreements, signed and accepted by the parties to the conflict, the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front. By accepting the peace plan for self- determination of the people of Western Sahara, unanimously endorsed by the Security Council last July, and submitted by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. James Baker, Algeria has once again shown its availability to fully contribute to the settlement of this conflict. This settlement must comply with the right of the people of the Western Sahara to decide, in sovereignty, on their destiny through a fair and free referendum of self- determination, to be organized and monitored by the United Nations. The challenges facing the world in the fields of peace, security and economic and social development are particularly acute in Africa. This continent has endeavoured over the last few years, with resolve and determination, to settle the conflicts affecting several of its regions, thus generating and encouraging a peace dynamic. In order to achieve its peace and developmental goals, Africa must, above all, rely on the support and enhancement of African endeavours. No doubt, however, it also needs increased international cooperation and support. The strategy of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) aims specifically at an optimal mobilization of both African and international resources, and the harmonization of these contributions through a partnership based on 14 mutual commitments and balanced interests and responsibilities. The G-8 countries and European Union member States, as well as other countries and organizations that are partners of Africa, have already taken steps to focus their Africa-related policies and programmes in support of NEPAD. Such a partnership should be intensified to help Africa, which is still lagging behind, to increase the pace of its development, to catch up in achieving the Millennium Development Goals, particularly that of reducing poverty to half its present level by the year 2015. Enhancing international cooperation is also an urgent task, in order to ensure the bases for sustained growth of the world economy, and actual integration of developing countries into the fields of production, technology and trade. Basically, there is a need to ensure the necessary conditions so that globalization will offer genuine opportunities for all. This implies promoting equitable rules of the game to advance trade, finance, investments and technology transfer. In this connection, we are concerned that the recent World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference, held in Cancún, did not manage to draw a framework for negotiations to revitalize the Doha meeting, which was already well behind schedule. We are still convinced that the reactivation of these negotiations and their successful completion, in conformity with the development agenda, holds to a large extent the key to the growth prospects of the world’s economy. It is therefore of critical importance to overcome the remaining difficulties on the basis of an approach that takes into account the interests and concerns of all parties, as well as the need to restore the multilateral trading system’s integrity, and effectively implement the special and differential treatment afforded to developing countries. Adequate international action is also required to address growing phenomena that are becoming more pronounced, such as speculative flows, money-laundering, financing of terrorism, illicit payments and bribery, as well as harmful practices in the field of corporate governance. This is needed to stimulate productive investment and ensure sustained long-term growth. It is therefore important to tap the huge investment opportunities available in the developing world, in particular, which eventually will benefit the world economy as a whole. Significantly increasing official development assistance and acting with greater resolve to find solutions to the problem of the external debt burden of developing countries, as well as improving access to world markets for the products of the countries of the South would all go a long way towards enhancing the investment climate in those countries and towards increasing their share of world trade, which remains the ultimate goal for achieving sustained financing for development. At stake is the establishment of a new international partnership based on the equitable sharing of responsibilities and benefits. To conclude, let me once again put on record our full confidence in our Organization, whose mission in favour of world peace and economic and social development for all peoples, remains more valid than ever. We shall therefore continue to call on all Member States without exception to contribute to enhancing the Organization’s authority and to provide it with the means necessary to fulfil its responsibilities. ﻿May I congratulate you, Sir, for assuming the mantle of the presidency for this session of the Assembly and thank the outgoing President, Mr. Jan Kavan. I would also like to echo what other speakers have said about the death of the dedicated United Nations workers who lost their lives in the bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad last month, including Sergio Vieira de Mello, an outstanding international civil servant. When we met here last year, we were all concerned about what would happen in Iraq. At the same time, we were concerned about what role the United Nations would play in the resolution of the Iraq affair. Dramatic events since then have provided answers to those questions. However, those dramatic events have raised important and disturbing questions about the very future of the United Nations. Central among them is the question, does the United Nations have a future as a strong and effective multilateral organization enjoying the confidence of the peoples of the world and capable of addressing the matters that are of concern to all humanity? Quite correctly, as we meet here this time, while still preoccupied by the issue of the future of Iraq, I am certain that none of us wants to rehash the debate that took place on this matter in the period following the last general debate in the General Assembly. While for some time after that general debate we were concerned to provide answers to questions about the role of the United Nations in Iraq, today we have to answer questions about the impact of the Iraq affair on the future of the United Nations. Matters have evolved in such a manner that to our limited understanding it seems extremely difficult to resolve the issue of the role of the United Nations in Iraq, unless we answer the question about the future of the United Nations as a legitimate expression of the collective will of the peoples of the world and the principal guarantor of international peace and security, among other global issues. Put differently, we could say that what is decided about the role of the United Nations in Iraq will at the same time decide what will become of the United Nations in the context of its Charter and of the important global objectives that have been set since the Charter was adopted. This is not a case of the tail wagging the dog; rather, history has placed at our feet an urgent and practical test case that obliges us to answer the question: what do we, collectively, want the United Nations to be? What do we do to distinguish the trees from the forest? In that regard we must make the point directly, that as South Africans, we are partners and activists who campaign in favour of a strong and effective United Nations. We do so because of the place our country and people occupy in the contemporary world. We believe that everything that has happened places an obligation on the United Nations to reflect on a number of fundamental issues that are of critical importance to the evolution of human society. We are convinced that this General Assembly would disappoint the expectations of the peoples of the world and put itself in jeopardy if, for any reason whatsoever, it did not address these issues. We speak as we do because we represent the people who are more sensitive to the imperatives of what the world decides, given our experience during a period when apartheid South Africa was correctly a matter of focused and sustained interest by the United Nations and the peoples of the world, including ordinary folk, even in the most marginalized areas of our globe. This Organization, and all of us singly and collectively, has spoken and frequently speaks about the phenomenon of globalization. Correctly, we speak of a global village driven by recognition of the fact of the integration of all peoples within a common and interdependent global society. 24 Certainly, humanity is more integrated today than it was when the United Nations was established more than fifty years ago. However, many have drawn attention to the fact that, whereas objective social processes have led to the emergence of the global village, all of our political collectives have not yet succeeded in designing the institutions of governance made necessary by the reality of the birth of this global village. Correct observations have also been made that the use of the image and concept of the village does not imply that the residents of this village are equal. The reality is that the same processes that bring all of us closer together in a global village are simultaneously placing the residents of the global village in different positions. Some have emerged as dominant, and the rest as the dominated, with the dominant being the decision makers and the dominated being the recipients and implementers of those decisions. To the same extent that our political collectives have not designed the institutions responsive to the evolution of the global village, so have they failed to respond to the imbalance in the distribution of power inherent in contemporary global human society. We speak here of power in all fields of human activity. Left to its internal and autonomous impulses, the process of globalization will inevitably result in the further enhancement of the domination of the dominant and the entrenchment of the subservience of the dominated, however much the latter might resent such domination. This will include the perpetuation of the dominant positions by those who are dominant to ensure the sustenance of their capacity to set the agenda of the global village in the interest of their own neighbourhoods within that village. Inherent within this is, necessarily, reliance on the use of superior power, of which the dominant dispose, to achieve the objective of the perpetuation of the situation of an unequal distribution of power. In this situation, it is inevitable that the pursuit of power in itself will assert itself as a unique legitimate objective, apparently detached from any need to define the uses of such power. This also signifies the deification of force in all its forms as the final arbiter in the ordering of human affairs. However, from the point of view of the disempowered, the struggle to ensure the use of such power to address their own interests becomes a strategic objective they cannot avoid. Necessarily this means that power would have to be redistributed. That would be done to empower the disempowered and to regulate the use of power by those who are powerful. Thus we come back to what I said earlier. Because we are poor, we are partisan activists for a strong, effective and popularly accepted United Nations. We take those positions because there is no way in which we could advance the interests of the people, the majority of whom are poor, outside the context of a strong, effective and popularly accepted United Nations. An autonomous process of globalization, driven by its own internal regularities, can only result in the determination of our future within the parameters set by those who enjoy the superiority of power. The powerful will do this in their own interests, which might not coincide with ours. When this Organization was established 58 years ago, its objectives and institutions necessarily reflected both the collective global concerns as then perceived and the then balance of power. Among other things, our esteemed Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has drawn attention to the fact that the United Nations started off as an Organization of 51 States and is now composed of 191 States. Undoubtedly, the perceived and real collective global concerns of our day are, to some extent at least, different from those that prevailed more than 50 years ago, when the Organization was about a quarter of its present size. For more than a decade, this Organization has been involved in discussions about its transformation. Once more, the Secretary-General has reflected on this challenge. The truth is that our discussions have gone nowhere. Earlier this morning the Secretary-General announced steps he will take to facilitate the adoption of decisions that will help all of us to effect the necessary and inevitable transformation of the United Nations. We support the decisions he announced. The global resolve to defeat such organizations as al Qaeda has emerged out of our understanding that international aggression should not necessarily be expected to come from formal and recognized State institutions. We have all come to understand that such a threat coming from non-State institutions would express itself as the most inhumane and despicable terrorism, as was most painfully demonstrated on 11 September 2001. 25 Our collective experience stretching from New York and elsewhere in the United States on 11 September 2001; and reaching back to Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, in Africa, earlier still; and, more recently, to Bali, Indonesia; to Morocco; to the conflict between Israel and Palestine; to Algeria, India, Russia and elsewhere; and even our own country tells us that the United Nations, working in defence of the collective interests of the peoples of the world, must ensure that we act together to defeat the threat of terrorism, collectively defined. At the same time, we have to take on board the conviction among some of our Member States that they constitute special and particular targets of global terrorism. Understandably, the argument is advanced that it would be unreasonable and irrational to expect such States not to act to deter such terrorist actions against themselves. None of us can defend international rules that prescribe that any one of us should wait to be attacked knowing in specific ways that we were going to be attacked by identified terrorists, and then act against those who had attacked us, with such horrendous costs as were experienced by the United States during the 11 September attacks. I do not imagine that any one of us would seek to impose such a costly and unsustainable burden on any of our Member States, which would also violate the self- defence provisions of Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. We also have no choice but to deal with the brute reality that the reform process of the United Nations and all its bodies, and other multilateral organizations, has got to recognize the reality of the imbalance of power, as represented by different countries and regions. At the same time, we must proceed from the position that such distribution of power is not necessarily in the interests of the peoples of the world, or even in the interests of those who today have the power to determine what happens to our common world. That includes acceptance of the fact that, depending on the place we occupy in the global community, we have different priorities. Among other things, the rich are concerned about ways and means to maintain the status quo, from which they benefit. In practical terms that means that all matters that threaten to destabilize the status quo must necessarily be anathema to such people. Such matters will therefore be an issue of principal concern to them. Necessarily and understandably, they will then seek to get the rest of the world to accept their assertion that the maintenance of the status quo must be a universal human preoccupation, precisely the kind of issue on which the United Nations must take a united position. On the other hand, the poor are interested in changing their conditions for the better. Accordingly, they will not accept the maintenance of the status quo, which perpetuates their poverty. Accordingly, among other things, the poor billions of the world will argue for action by the United Nations to ensure the transfer of resources to themselves, which will enable them to extricate themselves from their condition of poverty and underdevelopment, consistent with the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, the objectives of the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development and other international agreements. Inevitably, that will run counter to the propositions of those who are more powerful than the poor, namely, the Governments, peoples and countries that keep them afloat with development assistance. That will require whether it is stated or not that the recipients of that assistance understand that such assistance can dry up. Important shifts in the global balance of power and global objectives have taken place since the United Nations was established, 58 years ago. The Organization has not substantially changed, in terms of its structures and mode of functioning, to reflect those changes. That has served as a recipe for an inevitable crisis, a disaster waiting to occur. And so as we meet today we are confronted by global challenges that the global Organization cannot solve. Impelled by the urgent issues of the day, some of the powerful will not wait for all of us to respond to the problems we have raised, and which they face. They will act to solve those problems; their actions will make the statement that they do not need the United Nations to find solutions to those problems. Simultaneously, that will make the practical statement that the United Nations is irrelevant to the solution of the most pending problems of our day. The disempowered will continue to look to the Organization, understanding, correctly, that they are too weak to advance their interests singly outside the collective voice of the United Nations. In that regard, they expect that the United Nations will be informed by its founding documents and other solemn decisions it has taken since it was established, all of which have been approved by successive sessions of the General Assembly. 26 Global poverty and underdevelopment are the principal problems that face the United Nations. Billions across the world expect that the General Assembly will address that challenge in a meaningful manner. The masses of people of our world expect that the statements we will make at this session of the General Assembly as representatives of various Governments will indicate a serious commitment to implement what we say. The poor of the world expect an end to violence and war everywhere. They want an end to the killing that is taking too many Israeli and Palestinian lives. They want Africans to stop killing one another, continuing to convey the message that we are incapable of living in peace among ourselves. They desire the realization of the democratic objective universally: that the people shall govern. They believe that we are seriously committed to the objective of the eradication of poverty and the provision of a better life for all. They think that we mean it when we say that we will not allow the process of globalization to result in the further enrichment of the rich and the impoverishment of the poor within and between countries. They believe us when we say that our collective future is one of hope, and not despair. They are keenly interested to know whether our gathering, the United Nations General Assembly, will produce those results. To collectively meet those requirements will require that each and every one of us both rich and poor, the powerful and the disempowered commit ourselves practically to act in all circumstances in a manner that recognizes and respects the fact that none of us is an island sufficient unto ourselves. That includes the most powerful. The latter face the interesting challenge, important to themselves in their national interests, that the poverty and disempowerment of the billions will no longer serve as a condition for their success and their possibility to prosper in conditions of peace. What we have said today may not be heard, because we do not have the strength to have our voice heard. Tomorrow we may be obliged to say, No more water; the fire next time. As the fires burn, the United Nations will die, consumed by the flames. So will the hopes of the poor of the world die, as they did at Cancun, Mexico, not so long ago. We must act together to say in our words and in our actions, as countries and as the United Nations, that there will be water next time, and not fire.   ﻿This great number of heads of State and Government have assembled at the current session neither to perform ceremonial rituals nor to conduct the periodic consideration of agendas. Rather, it is the state of the world today that necessitated this exceptional gathering, because people everywhere sense a growing struggle between fear and hope, security and instability, force and weakness, surplus and need, and freedom and oppression. Returning to this Assembly is tantamount to returning to our origins and sources, and to common sense and principles, after nearly losing them. We return to this mother Organization like children who return home changed. Some are obedient and others are rebellious; some are just and others are unjust. However, we find the mother Organization as badly hurt as some of its children. What hurts the United Nations hurts us all. Its fallen victims are indeed martyrs of humanity in its entirety, like Count Folke Bernadotte, Dag Hammarskjˆld, Sergio Vieira de Mello and others who have made the ultimate sacrifice for this Organization. The peoples of the world perceive the United Nations as a haven for the rights of the weak and the needy. It also exercises its authority to dissuade the strong who act aggressively and forget their obligations and commitments. In our region and in our country, we have greatly suffered from double standards and recourse to might at the expense of right. Since the foundation of an entity on the ruins of the people of Palestine, an entity that recognizes neither its own borders nor those of others, repeated injustices and wars have arisen as a result of violations of the spirit and raison d''tre of this international Organization. Comprehensive and just approaches were adopted at the international Conference in Madrid to find a peaceful resolution to the Middle East conflict, resulting in principles and accomplishments that cannot be renounced or reversed. Incomplete approaches emerged, but they failed to achieve peace, maintain security and ensure stability. It has become clear to everyone, except to those in Israel who are arrogant and intransigent, that there can be no security without a political solution, and no partial, peaceful, political solution without the comprehensive peace that embodies the spirit of justice of the Madrid Conference and the integrated Arab peace initiative of the Arab Summit in Beirut. Such a solution is based on the relevant international resolutions calling for the return to Lebanon of the rest of the territory still under Israeli occupation, including Shebaa farms; for the return to Syria of its territory up to its 4 June 1967 borders; and for enabling Palestinian refugees to exercise their legal, humanitarian and moral right of return to their homeland. Such a process should ensure the establishment of a sovereign, independent, stable and viable Palestinian State, with al-Quds al-Sharif as its capital. Developments on the ground, however, dash that hope. The Government of Israel continues to build settlements, impose extrajudicial sentences, kill men, women and children, demolish houses and carry out pre-emptive arrests and assassinations. Similarly, Lebanon suffers from persistent and extremely provocative and aggravated Israeli threats, attacks and violations by sea, land and air, as described by the Secretary-General and his Special Representative in the region. The international community should therefore pressure Israel to end those excesses. Lebanese detainees and prisoners are still illegally held hostage, without due process, in Israel, which still keeps the remaining maps of the landmines that it planted during its occupation of southern Lebanon. Furthermore, Israel continues its policy of assassination and still covets Lebanon's waters and natural resources. I must say that the failure to guarantee the right of Palestinian refugees to exercise their right of return puts the entire Middle East in an explosive situation. The Government and people of Lebanon are especially committed to the implementation of this right, which we consider to be legal, natural and moral. Therefore, the so-called realistic solutions to this problem should not even be raised, since they run counter to the principles of international law and the spirit of justice. Indeed, only a commitment to the right of return and refusal to resettle the refugees in Lebanon are at the core of Lebanon's reconciliation that ended the war in Lebanon and that led to the Taif Agreement, which was endorsed by the United Nations. 36 In this context, I wish to stress that Lebanon's policy choices and positions regarding the Middle East conflict are constant and unaffected by the balance of power. We believe that those choices are righteous, moral and consistent with the requirements of a just peace. Those choices alone are capable of bringing about a possible and strong settlement to the Arab- Israeli conflict. Such an undertaking is compatible with the goals of the United Nations, as it strives to strengthen its role, with the support of the sponsors of the peace process and the participation of the European Union. It is in Israel's interest to revert to or to be brought back to the language of reason and justice. Since Israel's Governments have failed to do so, responsibility for bringing Israel back to reason falls to the international community. For in Israel there is a Government that considers only its rights and fails to take account of its obligations. We believe that those who consider only one side are the most dangerous kinds of people. Under the pretext of security, the Government in Israel is continuing to build a wall that separates Israel from the people of Palestine and is attempting to build a higher, larger and more menacing wall between the greater nations of the West and the rest of the world, especially the Arab and the Muslim world. Israel does that in a bid to serve and support those who wish to fuel conflict between East and West, between Christianity and Islam and among religions, cultures and civilizations, when, in the final analysis, there is only one human civilization, which stems from common spiritual values based on the belief in one eternal God and his messengers. Furthermore, the Government of Israel resorts daily to the stick as a means of subjugation. It ignores, or pretends to ignore, that the use of the stick incites disobedience; that, with time, the oppressors and the oppressed often exchange roles and positions; and that many who were once at the helm at various stages of their lives have faded from historical memory, having forgotten that only God is everlasting, as are the universal principles of equality, fairness and justice. There are those in the Israeli Government who were brought to power by the very extremism that caused the ouster of their predecessors or even led to their assassination, and who nevertheless do not hesitate to label Arabs and Muslims as the extremists or accuse them of being the sole source of extremism. In Israel, there are those who insist on making Israel a fortress towering over the region, rather than a State within it. There are those who make life for the Palestinians worse than death, and who are determined to force fellow Israelis to die with the Arabs in war, rather than live with them in peace. There are those in the Government of Israel who try to deny that Lebanon, Syria and the Palestinian's right of return are a mandatory path for any political settlement and a just, lasting and comprehensive peace is to be achieved. On the contrary, they desperately use the feeble-minded to fan the flames of conflict among the Palestinians themselves, among the Lebanese, between the Lebanese and the Syrians, and among the Arabs, instead of extinguishing the flames of conflict between the Arabs and Israelis in a decent, just and comprehensive manner. The Government of Israel believes that it is more important to gain time than to gain peace, that it is better to manipulate the various tracks and problems than to seek to resolve the conflict in all its dimensions and problems and that intimidation can transform injustice into right, right into injustice and occupation into independence. In Israel, the Government clings to its slogan of absolute sovereignty, and to the sovereignty it violates or violates with others, limiting the role of its most important ally to providing money and weapons, denying it even the right to advise. If the world's only super-Power utters a word of advice about the construction of the wall of separation and discrimination, it is ignored and construction of the wall continues. Offence is often the result of excessive tolerance of fault, and excessive chaos in standards and yardsticks is caused by the discriminatory use of standards regarding justice and international resolutions. It is not just, wise, safe or peaceful for powerful States to continue to tolerate double and multiple standards when dealing with Israel, while applying firm standards and measures when dealing with the weak and the oppressed and other nations of the world. This clearly leads us to call for the reform of the United Nations, as well as for strengthening its role, by 37 reviewing the working methods of the Security Council, expanding its membership, giving it more weight in decision-making and respecting the democratic consultative nature that must be the basis of our international Organization. That reform should fairly and effectively address new challenges of world security and safety. It should also provide balance and stability in international relations, particularly if that is accompanied by modernizing the work of the United Nations organs and rationalization to avoid use of the right of veto in a way that contravenes law and justice in the world. In Iraq, there is also a growing call for the United Nations to play a pivotal role in assisting the people of Iraq to maintain their unity, control their own destiny, end the occupation of their territories, establish the means to administer their wealth, choose the provisions of their constitution and freely elect their representatives. War can be waged from the air by one side only. However, peace on the ground must be made with others inside and outside of Iraq and with the United Nations. Peace in Iraq and Iraq's destiny require that the Iraqis be freed of occupation as soon as possible and that they work, under the auspices of the United Nations, in an expanded, pivotal and political role that is not restricted to social matters alone. That is the fundamental appeal of the events and tragedies and of the people of Iraq. Only the ignorant or those pretending ignorance refuse to listen and to draw lessons and conclusions before it is too late. The beginning of this century has been marked by violence and terrorism, whose worst manifestation has been the tragedies and crimes of 11 September and the subsequent calls for extremism and clash of civilizations, which prompt us to refuse to yield to the worst evils that threaten the peace and unity of our planet. Lebanon was among the first countries to be targeted by terrorism, which was carried out by fundamentalist groups. It fought it with courage and resolve. At the same time, Lebanon still faces State terrorism practiced by Israel, which has caused the death, injury and displacement of thousands of Lebanese and the destruction of essential facilities and infrastructure. While we differentiate between terrorism and the right of peoples whose territories are occupied to resist and to liberate that land, within the context of international resolutions and the Charter, our country explicitly and strongly condemns all forms of terrorism, as it constitutes a threat to mankind as a whole, regardless of race, colour or religion. Lebanon reaffirms its commitment to continue to cooperate with the international community to fight this extremely harmful and damaging scourge. In conclusion, I would be remiss if I did not congratulate Mr. Hunte on his election as President of the General Assembly and wish him success in his stewardship. I also would like to commend the tireless efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to promote all opportunities for peace, stability and development in the world. Furthermore, I would like to pay a tribute to the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) for its role in southern Lebanon. Now that Lebanon has been able to liberate most of its territory, it is my hope that UNIFIL will fulfil the remainder of the mandate entrusted to it, as defined in Security Council resolution 425 (1978). Lebanon has and always will be a country that rejects isolation and rigidity and that will remain open to dialogue and creative, rich, civilized human interaction. Our country will always remain true to its message. Despite the challenges, we remain eager to effectively promote justice and the rule of law and uphold the values of freedom and democracy. ﻿I would like to congratulate His Excellency, the Foreign Minister of Saint Lucia, upon his assumption of the Presidency of the General Assembly, and wish him much success. Until just one month ago, every person in this hall and every Member of this Organization joined us in the hope that the Middle East peace process might finally be back on track, and that a resolution of the Israeli- Palestinian conflict might be on the horizon. The establishment of a new Palestinian Government promised an end to terror and a new beginning. This glimmer of hope was darkened on 19 August by the extremists who blew up a bus full of Jewish families on their way home from prayers at the Western Wall, the holiest site in the Jewish religion. Twenty- three people, young and old, mothers and babies in their cradles, were slaughtered in that attack. That attack was carried out by Hamas, a terrorist organization, which, under the road map, should have been dismantled by the Palestinian Authority. Failure to dismantle Hamas and other extremist organizations has brought our diplomatic efforts to a standstill. Rather than acting to fulfil its obligation, the Palestinian Authority has chosen the route of inaction, and complicity in terror. We cannot allow this to continue. We must restore hope that we can build a better future for our children. The infrastructure of terror must be dismantled so that we can put our peace efforts back on track. There is no time other than now. There is no other way. For many years it was thought that terrorism in the Middle East was Israel’s problem, not the world’s. Today, the world knows otherwise. Today, it is not only Israel that mourns the loss of its loved ones, including women and children and babies, at the hands of the terrorists. Sadly, we have been joined by peoples from across the globe — from Mombassa to Casablanca and from Moscow to Bali. Even the United Nations, which for so many has been a symbol of peace and goodwill, is not immune. 28 Gathered here today in New York, just two short years after 11 September, the community of nations knows that those who seek to advance their political agendas through killing innocents are ready to strike at anyone or anything that represents the values of freedom and human life. Terrorism has declared war on us all. Israel has often stood alone in this battle. A country that has suffered more than any other from terrorism, we have always understood the danger it poses to democracy and freedom everywhere, even when others refused to see this, and condemned us for our actions. We have always understood that terrorism, no matter what cause it claims to serve, seeks only to destroy, rather than to build. There can be no neutrality in the war against terrorism and there can be no immunity for those who engage in it. Abstaining is not an option. This is not a war of choice. Terrorism will not be eliminated until the world unites against it. Our only choice is to win. Every member of the international community must take concrete and proactive measures to cut off all channels of financial, moral and political support to this common enemy. States Members of this institution that sponsor terrorists and give them shelter are accomplices in the acts of terror themselves. They must be held accountable for their crimes. It is no coincidence that States that sponsor terrorism, like Iran and Syria, are also striving to acquire weapons of mass destruction. Their hostility to freedom and the rule of law puts the very future of humanity in jeopardy. I know that many in this place see Yasser Arafat as the symbol of the Palestinian struggle. Tragically, for his people and for ours, he is one of the world’s icons of terror. In the 10 years since Arafat made a commitment to Israel and the world that he would no longer use terror, 1,126 Israelis have been killed and thousands wounded in 19,000 separate Palestinian terrorist attacks. In relative numbers, this would be the same as 11,000 French or 56,000 Americans dying from terrorism in the same period of time. This carnage must stop. Its impact on both societies is devastating. Yasser Arafat bears direct responsibility for this terrible suffering. He has led his people along the path of terror — from hijackings to suicide bombings — for more than 30 years, always preferring Israeli pain over Palestinian gain. He has been — and he remains — the greatest obstacle to peace between our peoples. For as long as he controls the levers of power, no moderate leadership can emerge. To vote for Arafat, like we saw in this Assembly just last week, is to vote against the Palestinian people. When Arafat wins, terrorism wins, and we all lose. Instead of rallying around Arafat, the international community must rally around the genuine interests of the Palestinian people. They must do so now, before he leads them even further down the path of terror and destruction. When a responsible and empowered Palestinian leadership finally emerges — a leadership ready to join the war on terror — it will find us a willing partner for peace. Israel is committed to the vision for Middle East peace laid out by United States President George Bush on 24 June 2002. Israel will not compromise on the safety of its citizens, but we will go the extra mile, as we have proven before, to bring peace and security to both our peoples. We are ready to work with the Palestinians and with the international community to make this vision a reality. For this to happen, the Palestinian leadership must take the moral and strategic decision to abandon terrorism once and for all, and make peacemaking possible. They must guide their people to build their own society, rather than seek to destroy ours. They, too, must understand that it is not poverty that breeds terror but terror that breeds poverty. We cannot stop only at dismantling the infrastructure of terror. We must also build an infrastructure of peace. It is up to political and moral leaders everywhere to foster an environment which rejects extremism and empowers the peacemakers. This is particularly so in the Arab and Muslim world, where incitement against Israel closes hearts and minds to the possibility of peace. Leaders must guide their people away from the culture of hate, and replace it with a culture of tolerance. Concrete expressions of cooperation and exchange must be built in media and government, education, science and business, to reinforce the message of tolerance and acceptance. For the sake of our collective future, voices of moderation must be heard. For the sake of our collective future, Israel and the Arab nations must learn to live together side by side, to overcome our conflicts just as the nations of Europe have learned to overcome theirs. Israel is living among its Arab neighbours. We 29 believe in a common future of peace and prosperity with them. My many meetings with Arab leaders over the last few days have encouraged me to believe that together we can make our region a better place. This culture of peace must permeate not only the borders of the Middle East, it must permeate the walls of the United Nations as well. In the past, the United Nations has shown us that it can play a positive role. This Assembly was key to the founding of the State of Israel, 55 years ago. Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) are our guideposts to negotiations and peace. To play such a constructive role in the future, the United Nations must reform. It must move away from the partisan hostility that has taken over its Middle East agenda. For more than three decades, this Assembly has passed every year a litany of resolutions designed to discredit Israel, challenge its interests, and promote the will of its greatest enemies. In my hand I am holding a collection of the decisions of the fifty-seventh General Assembly on the Middle East — 175 pages filled not with hope, but with the negative agendas of the past. No other country has suffered such unjustified attack and consistent discrimination within the United Nations system. The time has come to end this campaign of diplomatic incitement. For the sake of Israelis and Palestinians — for the sake of the United Nations and peace itself — I call on this body to rise above the tired politics of yesterday, and adopt a new, courageous agenda for tomorrow. I call on the General Assembly to abandon the automatic adoption of anti-Israel resolutions and to find ways of making itself relevant once again to the interests of the people it claims to serve. I call on this Assembly to fulfil its historic mission and help promote what unites us, not what divides us. On the morning of 1 February of this year, Israel lost its first astronaut in the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster — a skilled and courageous pilot whom I knew personally, a child of Holocaust survivors, a national hero. Colonel Ilan Ramon embodied the spirit of our nation. He was a man of courage and action, dedicated to the well-being of his people. Just as he sought to contribute to the advancement of his fellow man, he met his death, together with colleagues from the United States and India, on a scientific mission in the name of humanity as a whole. Israel’s place in such endeavours of international cooperation and accomplishment is no coincidence. In the 55 years since the State of Israel was established, recognized and welcomed into the family of nations, our achievements in the fields of science and technology, the arts and literature and agriculture and medicine have come to rank with the best in the world. Our international cooperation programme is celebrated in over a hundred countries around the globe, sharing skills, experience and knowledge for the benefit of millions of people. We extend this hand of friendship to all the nations of the world. We welcome our improving relations with Europe, just as we remain committed to promoting closer ties with the nations of Africa, Asia and the Americas. The Zionist vision of Israel’s founders was to bring into the world a State in our ancient homeland to serve as a haven from persecution for our people, a place where the Jewish people could fulfil its right to self-determination in the modern era and a bastion of democracy and opportunity for all its citizens. Our founders also made a promise not just to the people of Israel, but also to the people of the Middle East as a whole — to pursue peace and to work for the common advancement of our region. I know personally the profound meaning of this historic undertaking. I came to Israel as a young refugee from Tunisia. I serve as one of hundreds of thousands of immigrants to whom Israel has granted promise and protection, freedom and opportunity, through the values and institutions of democracy. I stand here today to reaffirm, before the nations of the world, the commitment of my country to peace. Peace for the people of Israel is both a moral and historic imperative. “Shalom” — the word for peace in Hebrew — is central to our language and our heritage. It is how we say “hello” and it is how we say “goodbye”. It is a name we give to our children. It is my own family name. It was our prophet Isaiah, who brought this message of peace to the world centuries ago, when he said: “And they shall beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against Nation, neither shall they learn war any more”. Israel’s historic record is clear. Whenever a true partner for peace has emerged, he has been met with Israel’s extended hand. This was true when President 30 Anwar Sadat of Egypt came to Jerusalem in 1977 and it was true when King Hussein of Jordan signed the Peace Treaty with us in 1994. The same is true today. Israel stands ready to complete the circle of peace with all its neighbours — real peace, not just peace for the headlines, but peace which brings an end to violence and hostility and positive change for the citizens of our region. From this great rostrum — a rostrum shared by all humanity — I call on the leaders of Syria and Lebanon, of Iran and of the Palestinian people to abandon once and for all their hostility towards us and to join us in building a better future for our children. This evening, I shall return to Jerusalem, the eternal capital of the Jewish people, to join with them in celebrating Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year. According to our tradition, this is a time when God determines the fate of each and every individual for the coming year. These are days of reflection and prayer. May all our prayers for peace and for life be answered, and may the actions and deeds of all the States and peoples represented here in this Hall bring to mankind peace and all the blessings that life can offer.  ﻿Exactly 10 years ago today, the Head of Tajikistan addressed world leaders for the first time from the high rostrum of the General Assembly. At that moment, following the collapse of the Soviet Union, our country was taking its first steps as an equal member of the community of nations. The establishment of Tajikistan as a modern, democratic, secular State coincided with the emergence of the need to search for our own ways of interacting efficiently in a rapidly changing world. Against the background of the inter-Tajik conflict, we had but little time to find effective methods of dealing with the huge political, social and economic problems of the transitional period. Today, full of pride in the peace-loving, industrious and talented people of Tajikistan, I am able report to the representatives of the world’s countries that we have emerged with dignity from the toughest trial that has ever befallen our nation. It stands to reason that Tajikistan, its people and its statehood were able to withstand that trial largely thanks to support of the international community. The United States, Russia, China, Japan, India and Iran, the European Union and Central Asia States and many other countries, large and small, supported the young Tajik State during that dramatic period of our history. The United Nations played a special role in this process. Tajikistan greatly appreciates this support, and is striving in turn to be a responsible member of the international community. A decade may not be sufficient time to take full stock of progress made on an international or national scale. However, trying to understand the lessons of the multifaceted and dramatic events at the turn of this century could be very useful to our common quest to make lasting improvements to the world order. For Tajikistan, the main lesson to be drawn is clear: the future lies with democracy within sovereign State borders and with the democratization of international political and economic relations. The lesson to be drawn is that establishing a democratic society is in many ways the same for all countries, but each case is also unique. Our own experience has shown that today there are no countries or peoples unwilling to accept democracy or unprepared for it. 2 The peoples of Asia cherish the same values as the peoples of Europe, America or Africa. It is also obvious that specific conditions, and each nation’s historical heritage and cultural traditions, clearly influence the pace and form of the democratic processes in each country. This issue was thoroughly discussed at the Fifth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies that was recently held in Mongolia. We believe that its outcome will give a fresh impetus to democratic processes everywhere, including Asia. Establishing a democracy should not be considered as being easy to achieve, but rather as an extremely complex step-by-step process. In this sense, the experience of developed democracies is indeed invaluable. Nevertheless, even they are still struggling to strike an optimal balance between the interests of the State and the individual and resolve the question of how to meet the basic needs of their citizens while respecting the primacy of the right to private property in a market economy. The people of Tajikistan won their independence and democracy through enormous suffering and hardship. Peace prevailed in our country only when we recognized that national accord should prevail over political ambitions and military confrontation, as the highest goal of society, united not only by common efforts to survive but also by a strong faith in its creative capacity. The brightest prospects for Tajikistan lie in a vision of a future developed democracy and prospering secular State, bolstered by a strong civil society. During his visit to Tajikistan last year, Mr. Kofi Annan could see the tangible outcome of the United Nations peacekeeping activities and striking change in the mood of the people, who now have hope for the future of their children and their country. We are convinced that the democratic processes in Tajikistan will gain momentum. We have all the prerequisites for this. The restoration of peace in Tajikistan in 1997 laid a solid foundation for a secular democratic State. The constitution was adopted by a national referendum. State bodies of authority have been performing efficiently at all levels, reflecting the entire spectrum of the extensive political life of the country. This does not imply that nothing threatens our young democracy, or that it is invulnerable. As a President who knows the needs and problems of the people who have entrusted me with such a high office, I will be sincere and share some of my thoughts. These concern both domestic and international affairs, including relations with the United Nations. First of all, we have no right to discredit the idea of democracy itself, in which Tajik society continues to place its hopes for a better life. However, experience has shown that there are no simple recipes for converting the political process into economic development. Moreover, Tajikistan’s experience compellingly demonstrates the need for comprehensive post-conflict rehabilitation. Enhancing the practical benefits of such efforts must be a priority for the United Nations system and the international community. Conflict zones must be transformed into areas of stability, and serve as examples to help to prevent new tragedies. Donors must make pledges that are responsible, and do not merely raise hopes. The central coordinating role in this respect undeniably falls to the United Nations. We are deeply grateful to the numerous friends of Tajikistan, including international financial institutions, for their support. We attach special importance to our cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme and other United Nations agencies. We believe that the United Nations Tajikistan Office of Peace-building is doing useful work to enable the international community to better grasp the positive changes in our country and its interests and needs. Now that Tajikistan has reached a new stage of development, we especially appreciate the assistance to achieve our priority goals. Today, as never before, Tajikistan needs assistance and practical support for effectively tapping our rich human and natural resources. We are resolved to making our economy up to date and competitive, inter alia, in order to overcome poverty once and for all. I must note with regret that despite the many gains in international affairs these past years, the international community has still not managed to truly resolve the problem of poverty. Though the item has been discussed at many conferences and forums, no specific actions towards eliminating poverty have resulted. The growing gap between the rich and poor countries is becoming a global challenge and threatens 3 to emerge as the main obstacle to the harmonious development of both individual countries and the community of nations as a whole. Of course, we must bear the primary burden of addressing social and economic problems. However, developing countries are justified in their expectations for alleviation of the external difficulties encountered in integrating into the world economy, which, in our case, is connected to access to investment, markets and high technologies. Equally pressing for us are the problems of landlocked countries that have long been discussed at international conferences, particularly closed borders and the many barriers to the free exchange of goods, services, capital and labour. I would like to draw attention to another such issue: the problem of freshwater. We are glad that Tajikistan’s proposal to proclaim 2003 the International Year of Freshwater was enthusiastically supported by the international community. Experience has shown that it was a very timely decision that met the expectations of us all. The shortage of freshwater is one of the most urgent concerns of the new millennium. Every year the demand for water increases because of the need to produce sufficient food — and I can provide statistics in support of that assertion. Some 1.2 billion people have no access to freshwater. More than 5 million people die every year from water-related diseases. According to estimates of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, meeting the food needs of the growing global population will require a 60 per cent increase in food production over the next 30 years. By 2030, one out of every five developing countries will be experiencing enormous difficulties because of current and future water shortages. A significant investment must be made in updating technology and improving water resource management so as to support economic growth and lessen the burden of poverty. Guided by the Water Appeal, which was adopted on 1 September 2003 by the participants of the International Freshwater Forum in Dushanbe, I propose that the period 2005-2015 be proclaimed the International Decade of Freshwater. The adoption by the General Assembly of a resolution on this important matter would mean the logical extension of the idea of the International Year of Freshwater. It would also be in keeping with the provisions of the Millennium Declaration, which set the goal of halving, by 2015, the number of people who lack access to freshwater and sanitation. The International Decade of Freshwater would allow the international community to continue its focus on the issue of the shortage of water. Water, the common heritage of humankind, is vital for the preservation of life on Earth and essential for ensuring sustainable development. It is well known that terrorism poses a threat to democracy. Tajikistan has had first-hand experience of this problem, as for 10 years we have been a kind of buffer zone against the expansion of terror in Central Asia and other countries. Precisely for that reason, Tajikistan has taken an active part in all efforts to root out that evil. We are equally resolute in our condemnation of and desire to counteract all forms of terrorism. In this struggle, which we can win only through united efforts, there can be no selectivity or double standards. It is clear, however, that terrorism cannot be curbed solely by military methods. It would be equally erroneous to believe that the phenomenon is rooted in a single religion or culture. The rejection of democracy is not the only source of terrorism; terrorism also takes advantage of injustice and suffering, of the arrogance of some and the sense of humiliation felt by others. Terrorism shows up in places where one “absolute truth” is confronted by another. Although terrorism has nothing to do with the conflict of civilizations, the extension of the dialogue among civilizations that was begun by the General Assembly in 1998 can contribute to better mutual understanding — the lack of which is quite evident. Dialogue is always more constructive than war. Dialogue conducted in all areas will liberate international relations from fear and mistrust and will make international cooperation constructive and creative. Our consolidated efforts have dealt a severe blow to terrorism as an organized phenomenon, but such efforts have not yet defeated it. One of the lessons learned in the course of this struggle — a struggle in which Tajikistan is an active participant — is that international terrorism has no ideology, nation or homeland. Furthermore, terrorism cannot exist without financial and logistical support. In this context, we should note that democracy is threatened by another 4 phenomenon that is no less frightening — that of drug aggression. The illicit trade in drugs has become one of the major sources of financing for international terrorism. The urgency and magnitude of the problems related to the illicit drug trafficking provide clear proof that this is a global menace that endangers international stability and security as a whole. Tajikistan has an extensive border with Afghanistan, and finds itself in a position between the world’s major producer of opium and heroin and the drug-consuming countries, to which international organized crime is smuggling the “white death”. As President of Tajikistan, I consider the need to curb drug trafficking through my country to be one of our nation’s top priorities. During his visit to Tajikistan last year, the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, had the opportunity to observe the great professional skill and dedication of the staff of the Agency for Drug Control that has been established there with the support of the international community. According to United Nations data, Tajikistan is ranked fourth in the world and first in the Commonwealth of Independent States in terms of the quantity of drugs withdrawn from trade. As a result of our efforts in the past four years, more than $1 billion worth of opiates has been confiscated from drug dealers. The struggle against such narcotic aggression, which generates multibillion dollar profits in countries located far from Tajikistan, will be successful only through the consolidation of collective efforts. Given the increased drug threat, and in order to expand multilateral cooperation in combating it, Tajikistan proposes the establishment of a global partnership to counteract the drug threat. Such a unique, broad anti-drug coalition could become a reliable barrier to the expansion of this scourge. The Secretary-General could become coordinator of such a partnership, and the United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention could become its central executive body. Such a global partnership would coordinate all efforts in the field at all levels, including the regional level. I would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of Members to another issue that is cause for concern. Certain groups of people have been using the global communications media recently in an attempt to equate such grave threats to humankind as terrorism and extremism with the holy religion of Islam. Such an interpretation represents a distortion of the peaceful essence of Islam and presents the religion to the international community as a source of evil and violence, thus giving rise to hostility towards the entire Muslim world and encouraging neo-fascist and other discriminatory attitudes. We would like once again to stress that the acts of terror that are being carried out in a number of countries are crimes, committed by cruel, merciless people who are driven by the lust for power and personal gain - people who have nothing to do with the holy religion of the world’s Muslims. Humanity must understand that Islam is not a religion of violence, but like the world’s other religions, calls upon people to show mercy and compassion and appeals for peace and harmony. Tajikistan supports increased regional cooperation in all areas. Our goal is to create a zone of peace, stability, harmony and prosperity in Central Asia. Turning Central Asia into a zone free of weapons of mass destruction is a matter of principle for Tajikistan, and that is why my country endorsed the idea of establishing a nuclear weapon-free zone in the region. Meanwhile, I would like to join the common concern about increased difficulties related to the non- proliferation of these types of weapon in the world, including South Asia. I am convinced that the time has come not to weaken, but rather to intensify, collective efforts and expand disarmament mechanisms. Another issue has become a challenge of the twenty-first century — the increasing number of territories aspiring to the status of State but not recognized as such by the international community. Those territories become criminalized from within, establish external ties that are not quite legal and become catalysts for regional conflicts. For that reason, it is in the interest of the international community to start, in the short term, to develop universal criteria for international recognition of States. By doing so, it would be possible to prevent the provocation of separatist sentiments in certain 5 regions that are fraught with negative consequences for the destinies of many peoples and States. Tajikistan notes with satisfaction the considerable progress in the revival of Afghanistan. We are enthusiastic about how the international community is resolute in its support for processes of national accord and peace-building in our neighbouring country. Tajikistan is deeply aware of the need to render international support to Afghanistan, and it will increase its assistance to the efforts undertaken by the Afghanistan Government headed by Mr. Hamid Karzai. Meanwhile, we are persistent in calling on the international community not to lessen its attention to the needs of that country, to renew its vigorous commitment to rendering support for positive change, to give fresh impetus to the peace process, making it irreversible, and to dramatically increase efforts to uproot drug production in Afghanistan. Given the global danger of the drug problem, I once again call on the international community and relevant international organizations to develop a unified programme of action aimed at eradicating the production, manufacture and dissemination of drugs in that country. The situation in Iraq continues to be a cause for pain and concern. Conditions there are still far from normal. It is not only a matter of the post-military environment, the lost lives of military personnel, and, even more sadly, of peaceful citizens. It is a matter of the lack of acceptable living conditions for many Iraqi people. Though positive changes are obvious, restoring Iraq’s sovereignty is the greatest priority. We share the majority opinion regarding the fact that the Iraqi people themselves should determine their future and that the international community, embodied by the United Nations, should be called on to render assistance in the implementation of that goal. Every people follows its own road to democracy. However, only together can we deal with the challenges and the threats we face on this path. The United Nations remains the ultimate, indeed unique, mechanism for taking collective action to address global issues. The noble goals for human development set out in the Millennium Declaration, which Tajikistan joined in signing, is convincing proof of that. The United Nations has united almost all countries of the world. All of us, the United Nations founding Member States and recently admitted Member States, pledged to observe its Charter. And that is the way it should be. Our Organization is currently experiencing another test — the search for efficient answers in new circumstances with new requirements for world development. The point is that the Organization and its major bodies should keep up with the processes occurring in a constantly changing world. Though reform of the United Nations is under way, the time has come to channel the practical activities of all its bodies into real priorities. In the field of international peace and security, the focus should be on the prevention of military conflicts, both intergovernmental and internal. The General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and all other components of the United Nations system are faced with the need to find convincing answers to the globalization process, in order to bridge the gap between the industrialized and the developing countries. We expect improved professional skills from Secretariat staff members and increased practical outcome of their work and of the work of all United Nations agencies, for the benefit of all Member States. The feeling that the United Nations is going through a crisis that materialized at some point is already fading. It is being substituted by an awareness of the need to strengthen the Organization, as well as for collective interaction within its framework. The preservation and the development of the Organization is our common goal, as the international community has no another similar universal mechanism. The United Nations is the heritage of all humanity. Tajikistan will be resolute in doing everything possible for the successful implementation of the noble mission of the United Nations for the benefit of all mankind. ﻿I am honoured to address the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, on behalf of His Excellency President Kessai H. Note and the people of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Allow me to extend my sincere congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election to your high office. At the outset, I would like to take this opportunity to express our deepest condolences to the bereaved families that lost loved ones in the recent bombing attack on the United Nations offices in Baghdad. That tragic event was also a great loss to the international community. Such horrific acts of terrorism are utterly condemnable, and those responsible should be swiftly brought to justice. My delegation is especially pleased that this session of the General Assembly will be presided over by the representative of a fellow member of the Alliance of Small Island States, and we wish you well, Sir, in your endeavours throughout the session. We are hopeful that your presidency will help to highlight the special needs of small island developing States. It has long been recognized that such States suffer particular disadvantages in terms of both environment and development. This was recently reaffirmed by the World Summit on Sustainable Development, which called for a full and comprehensive review of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. The coming year will be a particularly important one for the Marshall Islands and for all small island developing States as we prepare for the 2004 International Meeting in Mauritius to review the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. In preparation for that Meeting, the Marshall Islands is currently completing an assessment of the implementation of the Programme of Action at the national level. I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the international donor and development community to engage with the small island developing States in the preparatory process and to actively participate in the International Meeting so that it can produce successful and practical outcomes for all such States. The Marshall Islands is faced with challenges shared by many small island States. Our land comprises small, scattered islands and atolls, spread over vast areas of ocean. Our unique environment is fragile and highly vulnerable to the threats posed by global warming and environmental pollution and degradation. Our natural resource base is extremely narrow, our economy very small and we are disadvantaged by our remoteness from world markets. Given these factors, in our interactions within the international community, the Marshall Islands is particularly concerned about the following issues. The first issue is sustainable development. Pursuing the three pillars of sustainable development — economic, social and environmental — poses many challenges for small island States. During last year’s general debate, we introduced our national blueprint for sustainable development. This document forms the basis of our long-term sustainable development plans, which we are currently working hard to implement. In this context, and in the follow-up to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, we continue to seek opportunities to form partnerships that will assist us in the practical implementation of projects under the Pacific’s 14 Type II Umbrella Initiatives. Areas of particular importance for our people include the need for greater access to fresh water, the availability of affordable, renewable and environmentally sound energy sources and the development of waste management systems that minimize hazardous impacts on society and the environment. Also in this regard, we welcome the new work programme of the Commission on Sustainable Development. We are particularly pleased that small island developing countries will be considered as a cross-cutting issue in relation to the themes of each two-year work cycle, and that the theme of the 2014- 2015 work cycle will focus on small island developing States issues. Our second main area of concern is the environment, and in particular the threats posed by global climate change and sea level rise. These threats 23 are felt most acutely by low-lying island and atoll countries such as the Marshall Islands and many of our Pacific neighbours. I am pleased to announce that the Marshall Islands has recently completed its ratification process for the Kyoto Protocol. I take this opportunity to commend those States that have ratified the Protocol, and I urge remaining States to do so without delay. This matter is surely the most urgent facing the international community today. If we fail to act now, the future will see the complete disappearance of many small island nations. In relation to environmental matters, the Marshall Islands is particularly concerned about the state of the world’s oceans and fisheries. As a nation whose very livelihood depends on the resources of the sea, the Marshall Islands Government reaffirms its unwavering support for the regime established under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. I am also pleased to state that the Marshall Islands is now a party to the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement. The Marshall Islands is seriously concerned about instances of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing within its exclusive economic zone. Such fishing gravely undermines the livelihood of our people that depend on these resources as their primary means of survival. Regional and international cooperation must focus on addressing this issue. Within our region, we are pleased to note the recent progress of the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean. We are also particularly pleased with the development of the Pacific Islands Regional Ocean Policy and we look forward to broad participation in the upcoming Pacific Islands Regional Ocean Forum. An ongoing issue of major concern for the Marshall Islands is that of nuclear weapons testing. The people and the environment of the Marshall Islands continue to suffer as a consequence of the nuclear weapons tests that were conducted in our territory between 1946 and 1958. As we continue to seek resolution of this issue our people continue to suffer from ongoing health effects, the food chain still contains dangerously high radiation levels and our development capacity is restrained by an inability to use contaminated islands and atolls. I have briefly addressed a few issues of major concern to the Marshall Islands. There are, of course, many other significant issues to be addressed during the upcoming session. One of the most important challenges facing the international community is the need for a comprehensive, unified response to combat acts of international terrorism. I am pleased to be able to say that the Marshall Islands has ratified all 12 of the core Conventions against terrorism. We are continually working to implement the provisions of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), and we have taken many steps at the national level to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. We reiterate our solidarity with all Member States that are working to eliminate terrorism in all its forms. Another important issue facing this body is the continued exclusion of the Republic of China on Taiwan from the United Nations. The Marshall Islands Government reiterates its concern that the exclusion of a nation of peaceful and law-abiding citizens is not consistent with the inclusive ideal of the United Nations. I therefore strongly urge every Member State to reconsider this matter. The Marshall Islands welcomes the progress achieved by the International Criminal Court over the past year. Many positive developments have taken place, not the least of these being the election of a prominent panel of judges and the chief prosecutor. We look forward to the Court becoming fully operational and we are confident that the Court will prove to be a valuable mechanism in the administration of justice at the international level. Finally, in terms of the need for further United Nations reform, the Marshall Islands Government wishes to reiterate its support for the expansion of the Security Council. We believe that the number of both permanent and non-permanent members should be increased, and that such expansion should include members from both developed and developing countries. This expansion is urgently needed to increase the representative base of the Council and to enhance its legitimacy in the light of the geographic and political realities of the world today. We also wish to emphasize the need for further streamlining of the work of the General Assembly and its six Main 24 Committees in order to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the Organization.﻿First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly and to wish great success to the work of the fifty-eighth session under your wise guidance. I also take this opportunity to extend deep appreciation to Mr. Jan Kavan for his insightful leadership of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. This is my second successive participation in the work of the General Assembly. In my statement last year, I supported the resolute actions of the anti- terrorist coalition in eliminating the Central Asian centre of international terrorism in Afghanistan, as well as the other measures taken by the world community to address global challenges to international peace and security. As life has demonstrated, the United Nations plays a highly positive role in organizing the common struggle against international terrorism. In this regard, the idea of giving the United Nations the lead role in guiding the global anti-terrorist coalition deserves genuine support. One of the primary objectives of my statement last year was to appeal to the United Nations to recognize, as a great event in the history of my country, the two thousand, two hundredth anniversary of Kyrgyz Statehood, as an event of international status. The resolution of the General Assembly on Kyrgyz Statehood was a powerful force in raising the national spirit of our people. For that, we are sincerely grateful to our Organization. Indeed, whenever any problems emerge at a global level, we turn to the United Nations and unfailingly get support. Recently, there have been heated discussions concerning the role of the United Nations. Some hotheads even allege that the United Nations has exhausted its potential. I believe that such ideas contradict the interests of the world community, although on the whole, I see nothing wrong with debates on this theme. Such discussions are demonstrations of democracy, to the development of which the United Nations has significantly contributed worldwide. The development of democracy at a national level involves differences of opinion and criticism of the authorities. Something similar takes place in the framework of the world community. Here, too, a 2 polarization of opinions is occurring, but in this case it is our common offspring — the United Nations — that is coming under attack. Attempts to jeopardize its role are perceived, especially by small countries, as undermining that international body which embodies the interests of all mankind. There is a wise saying: “Small countries must have big friends”. The United Nations is just such a big reliable friend. However, it is difficult to deny that the work of the United Nations is not yet ideal. Certainly its efficiency needs to be enhanced. We understand the Secretary-General’s concern for the situation of the United Nations, and we fully share his assessment of the current world situation. In this regard, the attention paid to the work of this current session of the General Assembly by many heads of State is impressive. The statements made by Mr. George Bush, the President of the United States; Mr. Vladimir Putin, the President of the Russian Federation; Mr. Jacques Chirac, the President of France; Mr. Gerhard Schroeder, Chancellor of Germany, as well as other heads of State, despite certain differences in approach, clearly have shown the desire to have a definite role for the United Nations in building the new world order, one that is better in keeping with the aspirations of all people on Earth. The most efficient way of overcoming disagreements in political practice is to search for compromise. We are pleased to note that the technique of compromise is playing a positive role in resolving disagreements on such a key issue for the world as the settlement of the problem of Iraq. This is an encouraging sign. We would like to stress, again, that any measures to improve the United Nations should be based solely on the idea of improving the work of the Organization. The Kyrgyz Republic is ready to support reasonable proposals on this subject, including measures to increase the efficiency of the work of the Security Council. I believe that alongside the search for ways to improve the United Nations, we should concentrate on those specific problems which will need to be resolved again in the foreseeable future. In this regard, we may look at the results of the Millennium Summit, to those vital problems that were highlighted at that time in the discerning report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan entitled, “We the Peoples” (A/54/2000), and also contained in the Millennium Declaration. These last three years have highlighted even more the importance of the issues raised at that time. Since then, the fight against international terrorism was added as one of the major challenges to international peace and security. The report of Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan to the present session of the General Assembly focuses the attention of Member States on the need to increase their efforts towards implementing the Millennium Declaration. This approach deserves very broad support. I believe that only such a universal, global organization as the United Nations is able to cope with the challenges faced by the world community. But the United Nations needs help, and we, through our joint efforts, particularly with the support of the big Powers, can accomplish this. If we do not, then we would be acting at cross-purposes and could expect a grim result. Besides common problems shared by the world community, each country has its own specific problems. Kyrgyzstan is determined to resolve its own problems through reliance on its own efforts. Addressing this Assembly, I cannot fail to stress the concentration of our efforts on advancing the democratic process. In particular, last year I put forward a national idea entitled, “Kyrgyzstan — a country of human rights”. For the development of this idea, a Democratic Code was elaborated and a Public Council of Democratic Security was established. Following the outcome of a national referendum, a new Constitution was adopted which more fully reflects the level of democracy attained as well as new challenges to its development. These measures have given a powerful stimulus to the progressive movement of our country towards a democratic system. We also attach great importance to the establishment of fair, open and responsible governance and to enhancing the effectiveness of the anti- corruption policy being pursued. This year I established the National Council on Conscientious Governance to strengthen the work being conducted in Kyrgyzstan to create an anti-corruption atmosphere in our society. We are focusing our main efforts on the fight against poverty, but the Republic cannot resolve this problem without external assistance. We highly commend the role played by the United Nations in the 3 fight against poverty, and the measures undertaken by our Organization. Again, we appeal to the world community and to the developed countries not to reduce their efforts in providing assistance to the developing countries for the purpose of overcoming poverty. In the autumn of 2002, under the aegis of the United Nations, the Global Mountain Summit was held in our capital, Bishkek. The Bishkek Global Mountain Platform adopted at the Summit has, in essence, become the outcome document of the International Year of Mountains, observed by the United Nations. The document has defined key tasks for sustainable development of the mountain regions of our planet. To address them, Switzerland has initiated creation of the International Partnership for Sustainable Development in Mountain Regions. This is only the beginning; we have just set in place the first building blocks for the foundation of an institutionalized home for the mountain regions. Kyrgyzstan hopes to receive assistance from the United Nations and its family of organizations towards the establishment of an international information and educational centre for mountain States, as well as for a network for developing mountain States, with its secretariat established in Bishkek. I believe that the Kyrgyz Republic is the best possible location for this centre since most of our country is mountainous. The United Nations faces an abundance of problems. One of the most important challenges is the fight against international terrorism. Other global challenges include political and religious extremism, territorial separatism, drug trafficking and the fight against fatal illnesses such as HIV/AIDS and others. It is becoming increasingly urgent to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction. The Kyrgyz Republic supports taking decisive measures in this respect. We believe, however, that force should be used only on the basis of Security Council decisions and in accordance with international law so as to prevent conflict and discord within the international community. Not only must global measures be taken in this respect, but efforts must be made at the regional and national levels. One good example of such efforts is the work done by the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, with the lead role being played by Russia and China, actively relying on the Central Asian participants. In conclusion, I should like once again to stress not only my full confidence in the United Nations, but also the determination of the Kyrgyz Republic resolutely to strive, together with our partners in the international community, for the preservation and strengthening of this Organization, which we believe most fully reflects our interests. May the Almighty help us in this work, and let all good peoples of the world join in our prayers for the success and prosperity of the United Nations.  ﻿Let me first congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Your election is welcome testimony of the equal sovereignty of States, a principle to which the delegation of the Principality of Monaco attaches particular importance. I assure you and the members of 12 the Bureau of our support for your high mission at the service of the international community. I also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General: all are aware of his tireless efforts to promote with courage and lucidity the ideals our Organization embodies as it faces the challenges of our time. The tragic circumstances surrounding the heinous attack perpetrated in Baghdad last month call for us to pay special tribute to all United Nations personnel and salute with respect and sorrow the memory of those, including Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and his companions, who by sacrificing their lives, have demonstrated the strength and grandeur of commitment to the values that only our Organization can legitimately embody. When it joined the United Nations ten years ago, the Principality of Monaco pledged to fully abide by the obligations incumbent on all Member States and to participate, according to our means, in the promotion of the values that bring us together. We are all the more attached to that commitment because it is particularly important for small States such as Monaco that all are bound by the same rules in their international conduct and that all enjoy equal dignity and the equal right to respect. Of course, there is a considerable and at times glaring divergence between the ambitions we collectively espouse and the actual situations we observe around us, which unfortunately afflict so many among us. Assuredly, it would be pointless to ignore the profound differences that may exist between States in terms of both their characteristics and their influence in international affairs. But it is essential that we have a place, a forum in which we are all compelled to judge our actions and conduct by the principles that are supposed to guide our actions and in which we are compelled to examine our conscience — in short, a place where we, as members of the international community, are held accountable to the collective demands of that community. That is why it is so important that we strive to make the Organization more effective so that respect for our principles and purposes prevails over the seeming ease of self-justification and so that a collective approach based on dialogue prevails over unilateral action. As a question of principle and as a result of reasoning, the Principality of Monaco therefore supports all initiatives aimed at strengthening our collective mechanisms, in particular those undertaken by the Secretary-General pursuant to the Millennium Declaration as presented at the opening of the present session. Accordingly, the Principality of Monaco attaches particular importance to the effective implementation of the General Assembly resolution on the follow-up to outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields. Indeed, what purpose would be served by these enormous gatherings in which all participants vie to demonstrate their magnanimity and generosity if the resulting commitments are not followed up on or lack the means to monitor their implementation? The authority of the United Nations and the confidence placed in it would be diminished, even as the Organization has considerably expanded the range of its activities in order to effectively tackle the problems of our time, acting from the global perspective of its own ongoing responsibility to ensure peace, security and development. Would civil society, which today is present in all the debates that involve it, not feel frustrated and seek to take the lead on its own terms, creating an environment of confrontation? While participating in the many activities pursued within the Organization, a small country such as the Principality of Monaco must reasonably assess the size of the contribution it is able to make to the action of the international community. Thus, we have focused our efforts in the areas of sustainable development and humanitarian action because we feel that our acquired experience enables us, despite our human and material limitations, to make a useful contribution since we can count on very dynamic Monegasque non-governmental organizations, which benefit from particularly generous local support. I am happy to convey our appreciation to those organizations. Monaco’s priority areas are education, health, the protection of children, development assistance and environmental protection. Its activities have resulted in numerous achievements in the field, particularly in Africa, where our aid has doubled following the adoption of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development. Monaco has also achieved much in the Mediterranean region. All Monaco’s initiatives are complemented by our active participation in the forums where those various situations are addressed. The Principality of Monaco focuses on concrete projects such as schools, occupational training centres, 13 healthcare centres, investments in local communities to promote economic activity in village communities through micro-credit programmes. All those projects are aimed at directly improving the living conditions of their beneficiaries. In the area of the environment, in which the Principality has long distinguished itself, especially in the protection of the marine environment since one of Monaco’s sovereigns, Prince Albert I, helped found the study of oceanography in the late nineteenth century. Our experience has led to us being chosen to participate in the next Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme. The Principality of Monaco has also been the source of many initiatives related both to protecting its immediate environment, the Mediterranean Sea, and to monitoring pollution and preserving biodiversity elsewhere, with a long-term perspective of support for sustainable development. Resolutely committed to participating in the efforts of the international community to rise to the most recent challenges with which it has been confronted, Monaco has ratified the twelve main international instruments relating to terrorism, putting into place appropriate administrative structures. Furthermore, it is the first State to ratify the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which will enter into force in the next few days, on 29 September. It is also preparing to host, next month, the Fifth International Summit on Transnational Crime, organized by the United Nations and the Council of Europe, which will bring together representatives of Governments and the private sector. In the same spirit, the Principality works with all the relevant institutions to fight drugs and human trafficking and the illegal financial flows they engender or sustain. Need I also reaffirm the obvious commitment to peace and security of a country as sensitive to its environment as Monaco, even if, having no armed forces, it is unable to participate in collective actions under the flag of the United Nations? It is in the humanitarian field that Monaco consistently makes its contribution by assisting civilian populations, victims of combat and the upheavals and atrocities that too often today characterize armed conflicts, as can be seen particularly in Africa. In a symbolic solidarity, the Principality celebrates the International Day of Peace on 21 September and associates itself with the Olympic Truce, given Monaco’s involvement in the Olympic movement as symbolized in the long-standing participation of Crown Prince Albert in the International Olympic Committee. We thus welcome the inclusion of a new item on the agenda of this session, entitled “International Year of Sport and Physical Education”, whose goal is to highlight what has always been our motivation, the outstanding role of sport in developing relations between peoples by promoting mutual understanding and intercultural dialogue, factors that contribute to both peace and development. As I conclude this statement, I hope I have succeeded in communicating the profound attachment of the Principality of Monaco to the world Organization that it joined 10 years ago at His Serene Highness Prince Rainier III’s initiative. He was convinced that his country would thereby gain a most effective international profile, protection in an uncertain world and an opportunity to usefully demonstrate its solidarity. Since Monaco is naturally open to the outside world, it has easily found its place among you. Our Principality is grateful for what the United Nations has given it and is striving in return and to the extent of its capacity to help the Organization achieve its objectives with the conviction that what the international community needs are reliable Member States. And reliability is not a question of size but of will. It is this will that inspires and guides us.  ﻿Allow me, at the outset, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. This session will be one of the most decisive ones for the United Nations. In that spirit, I welcomed the call of the Secretary- General to heads of State and Government to actively participate in the work of this session. I have come to New York to solemnly reiterate Bulgaria’s steadfast support for the United Nations. Its principles, objectives and the spirit of solidarity that inspires it are at the very core of my country’s foreign policy. I should like to pay sincere tribute to the remarkable efforts of the men and women who work for the Organization in every corner of the world. The terrorist attack against the United Nations in Baghdad on 19 August reminded us that nothing that we wish to do through the United Nations would be possible without the self-sacrifice of those people. I take this opportunity to honour the memory of Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues, and I express once again the most sincere condolences of the people of Bulgaria to their families. The barbaric act of 19 August sounded the alarm: terrorism is far from being vanquished; the vigilance of all United Nations Member States must be redoubled and the effectiveness of their efforts tripled. Indeed, the very function of the Security Council’s Counter- Terrorism Committee cannot truly be effective unless it is supported by regional and subregional organizations. It is a question of creating a genuine global anti- terrorist action network in which a high-priority role naturally devolves to the European Union, to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). In my view, it is important that all United Nations Member States sign and ratify as soon as possible the 12 Conventions related to the fight against terrorism, as the Republic of Bulgaria has done, without, however, forgetting to address the origin — indeed, the root causes — of these desperate acts. At the end of this year, Bulgaria will conclude its two-year mandate as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. The conjunction of circumstances caused our Council membership to coincide with a particularly dynamic — indeed, dramatic — phase in international life, during which the very credibility of the United Nations was put to the test. It is obviously too early to draw all the possible conclusions from that experience, but one thing is clear: peace and stability in the world need the United Nations now more than ever before. In other words, there is no alternative to the United Nations. We note that the credibility of the United Nations, and particularly of the Security Council, have been called into question each time Member States have seen their unity shaken. It is in that spirit that Bulgaria is doing its best to avoid the pitfalls of discord. We fervently hope that the Council’s unity will be restored on the thorny Iraqi issue. The stability and prosperity of Iraq — which is emerging from a ferocious dictatorship — are in the interest of the entire international community. Contributing to the country’s stabilization in a concrete way, Bulgaria is working at the diplomatic level to find a formula that will enable the Iraqis to recover their sovereignty as swiftly as possible through a central and important United Nations role in the political process under way in the country. It is essential that the Council be able to provide the United Nations a clear and realistic mandate that would facilitate the mission of the Secretary-General and his associates in Iraq — a mission that is already extremely complex and perilous. I believe that the provisional Governing Council represents the international community’s best partner for helping the Iraqis to rebuild their country. In that context, Bulgaria 7 hopes to resume its traditional friendly relations with Iraq. My Government is very concerned as a result of events in the Middle East. The road map elaborated by the Quartet remains valid and must be implemented by the parties concerned. The Government of Bulgaria reiterates its appeal to the Palestinian Authority to fully meet its obligations under the road map to stop suicide attacks against civilians. We call on the Israeli Government to stop extrajudicial executions and to renounce its plans to expel President Yasser Arafat. Although South-Eastern Europe is experiencing a period of peace, accelerated development and better prospects for integration into European and Euro- Atlantic institutions, there are still points of tension that cannot be ignored. Obviously, I am thinking of the situation in Kosovo, where the United Nations is playing an irreplaceable role. Bulgaria hopes for a multi-ethnic, democratic and prosperous Kosovo, as envisaged by Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). The recent acts of violence make us think that the enemies of that particular Kosovo have not given up. I should like to take this opportunity to emphasize the importance that my country attaches to respect for and protection of religious monuments in Kosovo. I can affirm that the solution to the Kosovo problem can be found in dialogue — particularly dialogue between Pristina and Belgrade — that respects the right of all the province’s inhabitants to live in peace, whatever their ethnic affiliation. Two years after having had the opportunity to speak before the General Assembly, I have the privilege to share with Members Bulgaria’s significant progress in attaining its principal foreign policy objective: joining the European Union and NATO. In 2004, Bulgaria will become a member of the Atlantic Alliance. We are about to conclude negotiations with the European Union with a view to acceding to it on 1 January 2007. Such progress will enable my country to be even more effective in the implementation of the principles and ideals of the Charter of the United Nations. Beginning 1 January 2004, Bulgaria will assume the chairmanship of the OSCE for one year. The Bulgarian chairmanship of that important regional body will devote priority attention to cooperation with the United Nations. In our view, the experience accumulated by the OSCE with regard to organizing and observing free and democratic elections could be as useful to the United Nations as to other regional forums. The defence and consolidation of human rights are naturally part of our priorities. It is difficult for me to conclude without mentioning what I believe to be the main thread running through the discourse in this Hall — the future of the United Nations. One thing is certain: at a time of globalization, the sole institution of multilateralism that is universal in nature is in fact irreplaceable. The great issues of the modern world - international peace and security, the fight against poverty and for development, the defence and promotion of human rights, and protection of the environment and of human health — cannot find lasting solutions except through the efforts of, and within the framework of, the United Nations. It goes without saying that the United Nations can meet these formidable challenges only if it undergoes a profound process of reform. Reform must be undertaken without violating the principles or spirit of the Charter. It must be carried out with determination, but not in haste. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has identified the genuine problems that we, the Member States, must tackle. As always, he has asked the right questions. My Government supports his efforts to assist Member countries in crafting a clear and far-sighted vision of the future of the United Nations, in particular by means of his idea of appointing a group of eminent personalities to provide ideas for such reforms. Bulgaria is ready to participate in that act of collective reflection, which will require both courage and wisdom.   ﻿It is my pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. We trust that you will guide the deliberations of this session with great efficiency, skill and wisdom. I also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, for having successfully led the deliberations of that session. In addition, we should like to express our appreciation for the tireless efforts of the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and for his commitment to the Charter of the United Nations with a view to enhancing international peace and security. After the 1980s, Israel began unilaterally to delineate borders through the Seven Star Settlement Plan, initiated by Mr. Sharon when he was Housing Minister. The plan involves building Israeli settlements along the Green Line the line of the old armistice in order to obliterate the Line, which separates the territories occupied in 1967. Israel has used agreements as an opportunity to build more settlements, which now total 187 in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The holy city, Jerusalem, has been subjected to an extensive Judaization campaign with a view to implementing the Greater Jerusalem plan to increase the number of settlers within Palestinian areas. Under that plan, land has been confiscated and a wall isolating Jerusalem from neighbouring areas is being built. Israeli settlers have occupied Palestinian homes in many Palestinian neighbourhoods. In Jerusalem, Israel has confiscated 70 kilometres of land in order to build bypass roads in the West Bank under the pretext of redeployment. Therefore, Israel has taken the first steps in implementing a plan aimed at establishing cantons, which, Mr. Sharon had planned long ago to isolate Palestinian cities and villages by building settlements and bypass roads to prevent any geographic contiguity among population centres in Palestinian areas. The building of the wall is part of the Israeli policy of imposing a fait accompli, of exploiting security conditions to attain certain objectives by creating bantustans and enclaves and by isolating Palestinian villages from their surroundings, including separating such villages from Jerusalem. Thus the separation wall has isolated the cities of Eizariya and Abu Dis on all sides. All entry and exit into and out of these two cities is through Israeli military checkpoints. We condemn you, Israel, for such actions. An article in the 10 August 2003 edition of Haaretz reads: The Palestinian children who will be the next generation are being raised under extremely difficult circumstances in comparison with those who preceded them. They see only the ugly face of Israel; therefore, they will be consumed by blind hatred and a desperate desire for revenge.' Another article in the same newspaper this month notes: Israel lays the blame on Arafat, after it forced him to win the chairmanship of the Palestinian Authority by democratic means in accordance with the Oslo Agreement, ignoring the fact that it must, first and foremost, do its part to alleviate the tension by giving up the occupied territories.' The article continues: Can Israel ignore the regrettable fact that the European Union was among the majority that supported the General Assembly resolution? Israel's diplomatic defeat at the United Nations is the inordinate price that Israel paid as a result of a stupid decision by its Government a decision that was no more than a declaration of its intentions. Its hope to eliminate Mr. Arafat is a stark embodiment of Israel's inclination to shirk responsibility and then to blame fictitious developments on the Palestinian side for the problem. Instead of taking the necessary action to calm the situation, Israel uses the working plans of its adversary as a pretext and then, should it fall short of meeting its goals, complains that there is no party to negotiate with on the other side.' 30 First of all, Israel must contribute its share to settling the dispute that is, it should make every possible effort to defuse the tension. According to Haaretz, there is a Palestinian ceasefire proposal, but the Israeli Government has refused thus far to respond positively to the offer. It continues to repeat its hackneyed position that an agreement is not possible while Arafat is in power and as long as the Authority fails to dismantle the terrorist organizations. Israel imposes those conditions without making any change in the general conditions surrounding the conflict. Haaretz continues to say that the world has despaired and wrung its hands in frustration. The Israelis do not express condolences when our sons are killed; they do not denounce such killings, nor do they even establish any contacts. Before the road map was announced, the Palestinian Authority had been called upon to undertake certain reforms, such as drafting a constitution, creating the post of premier and transferring certain powers from the President of the Palestinian State and the Chairman of the Palestinian Authority to the Prime Minister. Chairman Arafat made many concessions to assist the Palestinian Government in carrying out its duties. The Government of Israel made several attempts, under various pretexts, to delay the declaration of the road map: first, it was holding the Israeli elections at the beginning of the year; then it was establishing the Cabinet; then it was waiting for the Iraq war. Finally, when Israel hesitantly accepted the road map, it rejected 14 of its provisions. At the Sharm al-Shaikh Summit and at the Aqaba Summit of 6 June, the representative of the Palestinian Authority who at that time was Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas committed himself to implementing the road map, pledging to meet its requirements before President Bush of the United States, King Abdullah of Jordan, the King of Bahrain, and President Mubarak of Egypt. He announced the Palestinian Authority's commitment to a ceasefire and its readiness to recognize Israel within secure borders. However, in his statement Mr. Sharon refused to mention Israel's commitment under the road map to the vision of two States the establishment of an independent Palestinian State that is viable and sovereign, living side by side with Israel in peace and security, as expressed by President Bush. Mr. Sharon did not accept the immediate cessation of all acts of violence against the Palestinians. All that Mr. Sharon said were a few words regarding a Palestinian State without any mention of an independent, viable and sovereign State of Palestine. Nor did he declare an immediate cessation of Israel's acts of violence. Despite that, the Palestinian Authority, together with all other resistance factions, declared a ceasefire on 26 June. That ceasefire was to remain in place for three months. Regrettably, Israel continued its terrorist practices, and the Israeli army of occupation assassinated 86 Palestinians. To sabotage the declared ceasefire, Israel assassinated the political leaders of the resistance factions. The situation then slipped into tension and confrontation, one month after the ceasefire had been announced. International reports state that the majority of Palestinians in the occupied territories now depend to some extent on food rations. In May of this year, the World Bank reported that the volume of international contributions to the Palestinian territories had grown: since the beginning of the Palestinian intifada, external contributions accounted for more than $1 billion of the budget of the Palestinian Authority. They have therefore provided sustenance to more than half a million people the families of the employees of the Palestinian Authority. Those contributions staved off an enormous, acute humanitarian crisis. Donors who hoped for reconciliation had no choice but to make contributions because the Palestinian Authority's network of services collapsed and the living conditions of Palestinian citizens deteriorated. It is not strange, then, that the Palestinians persevere through international assistance. However, this generosity on the part of the international community ultimately profited the Israeli enemy. International support provided a protective network through which Israel was able to afford an expensive occupation of the West Bank. Israel controls the areas militarily for free, without assuming any responsibility for the lives of the citizens there. Fighting terrorism is an arduous task. However, we do not see anyone keenly seeking the root causes of or motivations for terrorism, nor even concerned about the international isolation that Israel is suffering because of its practice of State terrorism. It is as if the stifling Israeli economic crisis were a predestined, divinely ordained phenomenon. In the search for the culprits, Arabs and the resistance are held to be the cause of the crisis. 31 There was a real chance for the United States to embrace all the peoples of the world, not only through the compassion of those peoples for the people of the United States but also through the unified effort to fight terrorism. The United Nations should have seized that opportunity through a programme objectively and reasonably implemented, not by using cannons or fighter jets or by mobilizing huge forces to destroy a hated regime. The real reason for that was well known political and economic ambitions. The world was outraged at the military action, but it stood idly by, observing the consequences of the misuse of force. The United States Administration expressed its keen interest in implementing the road map and establishing an independent Palestinian State. Regrettably, it did not, as a sponsor of peace, address the crisis with the required effort and effectiveness. It is not enough to stress the vision of President Bush or the commitment of his Administration to such a vision, while continuing to employ a policy of double standards. That Administration continues to blame and warn the Palestinian Authority. It continues to urge the Authority to combat the resistance, which they can see only as terrorism against the Israeli occupation, despite the fact that all international norms stress the right of occupied and colonized people to self-determination by whatever means. The United States Administration overlooks the Israeli leader's terroristic practices and Israel's failure to implement its commitments in accordance with the road map. The shortcomings of the United States role reflect negatively on the peace process. They obstruct the process and make success very difficult, such as by refusing to deal with President Arafat, the legitimate, elected President of the Palestinians. Mr. Arafat is the only leader who has shown conviction and flexibility with respect to the peace process. As a result of that, Mr. Arafat shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Mr. Yitzhak Rabin, who was assassinated by dirty hands in Israel in order to prevent the continuation of the peace process, spreading anxiety and doubts among Palestinian and Israeli citizens alike. The Arab side accepted the initiative of His Highness Crown Prince Abdullah Bin Abdul-Aziz for the establishment of comprehensive peace with Israel after its total withdrawal from all the occupied Arab territories. The Crown Prince carried that initiative to Washington, D.C., in his historic meeting with President Bush in April 2002. The initiative was based on the agreed terms of reference for the road map, along with the resolutions of international legitimacy, the Madrid terms of reference and the principle of land for peace. In conclusion, peace in itself is not an objective for Israel. That will be true as long as Israel continues to receive all forms of assistance from major Powers trying to maintain their strategic interests in the Middle East region, and opts to settle issues militarily, outside the framework of the United Nations and the resolutions of the Security Council. Israel has laid siege to the Palestinian people. It has paralysed the apparatus of the Palestinian Authority, preventing it from operating. The Israeli army assumed responsibility for security. But how did it do that? By killing, assassination and destruction. What is required first is the withdrawal of the Israeli forces from the occupied territories to the borders of 28 September 2002. The Security Council should adopt the road map and work to implement it through the Quartet. The siege against the Palestinian people and their elected President Yasser Arafat must be lifted. The United States must cooperate positively and effectively to facilitate the task of the Quartet and to warn Israel of the consequences of obstructing its tasks. Deploying international forces into a buffer zone created between the two sides will facilitate implementation of the road map and the Palestinian Authority's task of maintaining security in the area from which the Israeli forces will withdraw. Those forces will receive complete cooperation from the citizens of Palestine.﻿It gives me great pleasure on behalf of my delegation to extend to you, Sir, our heartfelt congratulations on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. My delegation is particularly pleased at the way you have been conducting the work of the Assembly thus far. The skills and experience that you bring to the Assembly have been amply proven in the past days of our deliberations. I wish to assure you of the continued support and cooperation of my delegation. Let me use this opportunity to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for a job well done during the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. In the same vein, I wish to pay tribute to our illustrious Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his valiant efforts in bringing the United Nations closer to the people and in fostering peace and development around the world. He is discharging the functions of his high office in such a manner that he has won the hearts and minds of many people the world over. This fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly is being held at a very momentous time in the history of the United Nations — a time when multilateralism is facing serious threats and a time when the United Nations, the main embodiment of multilateralism, has been confronting formidable challenges. Never in history have the relevance and mandate of the United Nations been put to a greater test as in the past few months. Certainly, the tumultuous events of the past months have shaken the very foundation of our Organization, but fortunately have not broken it. We are comforted by the fact that the United Nations has withstood the test of time and emerged as not only relevant, but indispensable in keeping world peace. Likewise, multilateralism has stood out as the only hope for all peoples. As we celebrate the United Nations and its success, we should always remember that it is our solidarity and steadfast adherence to the ideals of the United Nations that have made our Organization survive the trials and turbulence of the past year. I assure the Assembly that the Government and people of the United Republic of Tanzania take pride in Tanzania’s membership of the United Nations. We remain committed to its ideals and ready to work tirelessly towards its advancement, strengthening and success. Peace and security still eludes the world, as guns and explosives continue to thunder and cries of agony continue to be heard across the continents. These days, violations of human rights have become common occurrences, even among the developed countries of the world. Wars continue to rage, with Africa and Asia, sadly, claiming the largest share. Acts of terror, too, continue to resonate all over the world. Since the last General Assembly session, for example, terrorists have struck in 12 countries. As a country that has been a victim of international terrorism, Tanzania condemns terrorism, whatever the reason and wherever it takes place. My Government remains committed to the war against terror. In this regard, we will continue to cooperate with world Governments and institutions of goodwill to defeat terrorism. I take this opportunity to inform the Assembly that Tanzania has ratified all the major anti- terrorism protocols. We have also enacted a comprehensive legislation to deal with terrorism and terrorist acts in our country. It is very saddening to note that even the United Nations has become a target of terrorist attacks, as exemplified by the recent tragic bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, which resulted in the death of 23 United Nations staff members, including the charismatic diplomat and chief of mission, Sergio Vieira de Mello and his chief of staff, Nadia Younes. Once again, we condemn this senseless act, while joining in mourning our fallen heroes. They died for the United Nations. They risked their lives and died for a just cause, for which they will be remembered for ever in the history of our Organization. Tanzania proposes that the United Nations erect a fitting memorial in their honour and memory. 12 I mentioned earlier that Africa has had an unfair share of violent conflicts and wars, especially when one considers the rampant poverty and low levels of development on the continent. However, I dare say, with a sense of guarded optimism, that we see a glimmer of hope in the evolutions of processes to resolve some of Africa’s seemingly intractable conflicts. I have in mind the conflicts in Liberia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi, the Sudan and Somalia, where encouraging progress has been recorded on the path to finding lasting solutions. The most welcome development in these conflicts, however, is the fact that African nations and leaders have taken the lead in the search for solutions. They have done so under the auspices of the African Union or their regional economic groupings. In several cases, they have also intervened as individuals or as groups of neighbours or like-minded nations and leaders. Tanzania appreciates the support of the United Nations and the international community for the efforts made by African nations and leaders in the search for peace on the continent. We appeal for continued support to sustain the peace in the reconstruction phase. Equally important, I appeal for timely support and action. Experience has shown that the support of the international community, including the United Nations, in the search for solutions to African conflicts is a bit too slow, or comes a bit too late. My delegation is extremely pleased to have been a witness, on 25 September, of the adoption of the principles of good-neighbourly relations and cooperation between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda. It is a welcome initiative. We commend the Secretary-General for conceiving the idea. Once again, I register Tanzania’s support for the initiative and promise that we shall do whatever is within our means to promote its success. I would also like to take this opportunity to call on the international community to extend the necessary political, economic and financial support to the Transitional Government in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, under the leadership of President Joseph Kabila. We consider this critical to keep up the momentum and avoid reversals. The situation in Burundi, regrettably, remains precarious. While we welcome the smooth transfer of power from President Buyoya to President Ndayizeye, we also take note of positive developments under the Transitional Government. However, the Government and people of Burundi need to be supported to achieve comprehensive peace and social and economic reconstruction. The regional leaders have been trying to help on the peace front and will continue to do so. Some progress has been made, but serious challenges still lie ahead. The unrelenting support of the international community, especially the Security Council, is therefore essential. We also call on the international community to do more by way of extending economic and financial support to the Transitional Government of Burundi. It needs that support to effectively respond to the humanitarian needs in the country. My Government welcomes the decision by the United Nations to convene the long awaited international conference on the Great Lakes region. Preparations are progressing well under the able leadership of Mr. Ibrahima Fall, the Secretary- General’s special representative for the Great Lakes region. There is good cooperation between him, the African Union and the six core countries of the region. Tanzania feels greatly honoured to be given the opportunity to host the Conference in June 2004. We stand ready to contribute to its success. The Conference will undoubtedly provide an important forum to all concerned parties to deliberate on important issues of peace, stability and development in the region. We also hope that it will give due focus to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the war-torn countries. I appeal to all in the United Nations to extend the requisite material, financial, political and diplomatic support to the Conference. We welcome the latest Baker Plan on resolving the long-standing Western Sahara problem. We appeal to the parties to extend the maximum possible cooperation to Mr. Baker so that the people of Western Sahara can have an opportunity to determine their future peacefully. Owing to our strategic position in a conflict- ridden region, and our history of stability and traditional hospitality, Tanzania has played host to thousands of refugees from neighbouring countries. The influx began in 1959 and has not stopped to date. At present, we play host to more than 800,000 refugees from Rwanda, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Somalia. We remain committed to our international obligations under the 1951 Geneva 13 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees as the cornerstone of international protection. However, our 42 years of experience of hosting refugees have made us see the urgent need to review its relevance and application. We are particularly concerned with the concept and practice of burden-sharing, which does not adequately alleviate the burden of hosting refugees in poor developing countries like ours. We welcome the new concept of “Convention Plus” espoused by the High Commissioner for Refugees. We hope that new and emerging realities will be given serious thought in the discussions and conclusions of the High Commissioner’s Executive Committee. The situation in the Middle East remains a matter of great concern to my Government. When the Middle East road map for peace was promulgated a few months ago, we became hopeful. My Government supported it because it addressed comprehensively the issue of the establishment of a viable Palestinian State, living side by side and in peace with Israel. Despite the current difficulties, we still believe that the road map is the most reasonable and viable way of resolving the long-standing Israel-Palestine conflict. It is imperative, therefore, that the obstacles on the road map be overcome quickly. Violence and counter-violence will not help. We are also of the view that the use of excessive force and recourse to extrajudicial measures in dealing with Palestinian militants, or exiling President Yasser Arafat, would be counterproductive; it would inflame the situation. We appeal to the Quartet and the Security Council to do everything possible to bring the implementation of the road map back on track. As we all remember, at the dawn of the twenty- first century, the General Assembly at a special session discussed the challenge of poverty and development. At the end we came up with the Millennium Declaration and the Millennium Development Goals, which embodied a vision of engaging in a comprehensive offensive against poverty, deprivation and lack of development. The clear target of halving the scourge of poverty by 2015 was set. When we look back and evaluate what has been achieved in the three years since the Millennium Summit, we cannot fail to discover that not much has been done. Provision of the estimated $50 billion to $100 billion additional resources required annually over a period of 15 years to finance the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals is far from being realized. The subsequent meetings in Monterrey and Johannesburg, as well as the successive G-8 summits, have been unable to meet the requirement. As it stands now, the Millennium Development Goals risk not being implemented as expected. Indeed, something needs to be done quickly to save that historic summit. It is incumbent upon the developed countries to demonstrate greater political will. Certainly failure will not be good for our Organization and surely it will be bad for all of us. The current wave of globalization is the greatest economic process of our time. The unfortunate collapse of the World Trade Organization meeting in Cancún last month demands that we face up to this phenomenon. We hope that summit will be reconvened soon. The social imperative of the wave of globalization presents us with two interlinked challenges that are central to the work of this Organization. These pertain, on the one hand, to fighting poverty, and on the other, to working on constructive and inclusive measures to promote the effectiveness of global institutions in global issues and conflicts. These concerns have also been at the centre of the work of the World Commission on the Social Dimensions of Globalization, established last year under the auspices of the International Labour Organization (ILO), with a mandate to promote social justice and decent work, linked to economic and social policies for global prosperity. This World Commission, which my President is privileged to co-chair with President Tarja Halonen of Finland, is about to complete its work and is due to submit its report early next year. The Commission has been a forum of useful dialogue between eminent personalities with a wide cross-section of backgrounds, views and competencies. It has consulted widely and extensively. Its report is expected to generate practical ideas for change that can make the process of globalization more inclusive and more equitable. It will address the needs of those who feel marginalized, as well as those who have benefited from globalization but feel uncertain about the future. It will speak of the significance of a value-based multilateralism and the role of this Organization. However, the recommendations, mandate and vision of the work of the Commission will not be 14 undertaken, pursued and achieved through the work of the ILO alone. They will constitute a wide remit for other agencies of the United Nations, other multilateral agencies, regional groupings, individual Governments, non-governmental organizations and civil society. It is also hoped that the report will be submitted to this Assembly for consideration and appropriate promotional direction. It is the hope of my delegation that the Commission’s report will be a welcome basis for collective and concerted action towards the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals and in rendering globalization a process that works for all, in all countries, within countries and between countries. I would like to associate myself with the statement made this morning by the Permanent Representative of Finland concerning the launching of a Helsinki process on global governance and democracy, with which my Government feels proud to be associated. The fight against AIDS remains a major challenge to mankind today. It is a war that we must fight and win. We realize the dire consequences of the pandemic on human life and on our economies. The high-level plenary meeting held last week was reassuring and most of us came away from the session modestly optimistic. Certainly, our resolve to squarely face up to the pandemic and to meet the set targets has to be coupled with equal responsibility for leadership initiatives, accountability and more judicious resource mobilization and management. Reform of the United Nations Security Council has been in the cards for some time now. Tanzania is convinced that the reform of the Security Council is desirable, to make this important organ of our Organization more representative, more democratic, more transparent and more measured in the conduct of its business. We believe that this will go a long way towards renewing the confidence and support of Member States in the relevance and effectiveness of the Organization. Tanzania accepts the truism that reform is a process and not an event. We support the establishment of the high-level panel of eminent personalities to review the functioning of major organs of the United Nations. We look forward to its early constitution. We attach special importance to this process and promise to play our part.  ﻿Let me begin by congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly. You are assuming your duties at a difficult juncture in 25 international affairs. I am sure that, under your guidance, the Assembly will make a positive contribution to fostering peace and progress in the world. Allow me also to extend my warmest thanks to your predecessor, our good friend Mr. Jan Kavan, for his commitment and diligence. We fully subscribe to the statement delivered by Mr. Frattini on behalf of the European Union, as well as to the priorities of the European Union that he has laid out before the Assembly. When I held the presidency of the European Union, just a few months ago, I had the honour to work closely with the Secretary-General at a very crucial time. Secretary-General Kofi Annan often has to wage an uphill battle in his efforts to safeguard the moral authority of the United Nations and to carry out its mandate. His tireless efforts to promote peace and security worldwide deserve our fullest support. Indeed, this year the United Nations has undergone one of the most testing periods in its history. During the Iraqi crisis the world's citizens put great faith in the power of the United Nations to respond to the potential threat of weapons of mass destruction, while at the same time preserving peace and the legitimacy of international law. The leaders of the international community failed to unite around global public opinion, and a war ensued. As Kofi Annan told the Assembly, a new doctrine of pre-emptive force and unilateralist actions has called into question our long tradition of global consensus on collective security. Paradoxically, despite that crisis, our citizens expect more today from the United Nations, rather than less. Whether we are dealing with poverty, inequality, human rights violations, terrorism, pollution or weapons of mass destruction, the world looks to us for leadership. We are expected to transform today's insecurity into tomorrow's opportunities. That may seem like a tall order, but it is possible. It is possible today, as we are witnessing a growing consciousness about the need to think seriously about global governance. That consciousness has to do with the magnitude and complexity of the issues with which humankind is grappling. It also has to do with the fact that, in an era of globalization, a problem in another corner of the world can have major effects in our own neighbourhood of the global village. The legitimacy of the United Nations is at the heart of that debate. If we are to convince the more powerful of the world that unilateralism does not pay, we need to show that multilateralism is effective. We need to prove that organizations such as ours can deal effectively with threats to our peace and security. We need to rethink our institutions, which must be financially and politically viable. We must ensure that our institutions derive their legitimacy not only from the action we take and the just decisions we make, but from the fact that they are truly democratic and that they are representative of global consensus as far as possible. All that is possible, but it requires courageous changes certainly the courage to open up a sincere dialogue between citizens, countries, continents and civilizations. We therefore fully endorse the Secretary- General's proposal for the reform of the United Nations. By the time the Assembly meets next year, we need to have achieved realistic targets and tangible results, and to have re-evaluated the role of the various bodies of the United Nations and of their respective missions. The role of the Security Council is paramount, and its composition must be more representative in order to ensure full trust in its authority and legitimacy. The United Nations can become central in safeguarding humankind's security, peace and prosperity. Greece will work towards that goal if the General Assembly honours us by electing us to the Security Council for the 2005-2006 term. From the corner of the world I come from, I can seriously state that the prospect for peace is real. In the last century Greece lived through two World Wars, two Balkan wars, a major war with Turkey, a famine, a civil war, numerous dictatorships and confrontation with Turkey over Cyprus. We also became a major recipient of refugees from the crises, ethnic cleansing and wars in our region of South-Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Today there is hope in the Balkans that peace can become permanent, that democracy can flourish and that human beings can live together in dignity, irrespective of their religious, political or ethnic affiliation. Greece and Turkey have emerged from a long period of over 40 years of tension and suspicion when there was little contact and no bilateral agreements were ever signed. Twice in recent decades we went to the brink of war. Today I can stand before the Assembly and state that Greece and Turkey have ratified 14 agreements in areas ranging from tourism to agriculture and education to security. We have also agreed on 10 confidence-building measures and, although fundamental differences remain on specific 26 issues, we are now working cooperatively to try to deal with some of the most contentious and controversial questions that have divided us for decades. Further testimony of that improvement is the fact that, with my Turkish counterpart, Abdullah G¸l, we simultaneously submitted yesterday in this building our ratification instruments for the Ottawa Treaty banning landmines. In Cyprus, an island divided after Turkey's invasion and occupation in 1974, we perceive the common desire to build a democratic, united Cyprus where Turkish Cypriots and Greek Cypriots can live together in peace. Last April, following the lifting of restrictions on free movement, thousands of Cypriots seized the opportunity to cross the so-called Green Line to meet with one another and to demonstrate that it is possible for them to share a common future. However, that easing of restrictions is not a substitute for a comprehensive settlement to the island's political problem. Over the years, Greece has actively supported the efforts of the Secretary-General to achieve a comprehensive settlement in conformity with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the principles on which the European Union is founded, namely, the Acquis Communautaire. Those resolutions must be implemented. We will not give up hope until all Cypriots can live together in harmony and security in a federal State with a single citizenship and without foreign troops on its territory. On 1 May 2004, Cyprus will be a full member of the European Union. We hold out the hope that the Annan plan will be used as a basis for negotiating, and that a solution will be found, so that the Turkish Cypriot population will also enjoy the security and prosperity that accession to the European Union will bring. It is possible. Yet all those sustained efforts for peace in the region would not have been possible if it were not for the creation of a viable, stable and sustainable framework of shared values, principles, visions and interests, as well as a deep commitment to respect of our citizen's rights and including a vision in which, as Pericles said in his Funeral Oration, one is free of suspicion of the other. That framework, vision and common values can be summed up in one phrase: our European Union. Fifty years ago, Europe was shattered by two world wars and countless regional conflicts. Through our common values of respect for the rule of law, democracy, freedom, and solidarity, we have overcome wars and the Holocaust and have seen the fall of the Berlin Wall. Today the European Union is a model of multilateralism, a system of collective governance that advances the shared interests and addresses the common problems of a coalition of nation-States that all aspire to peace and security in a common union. Europe may not have a magic wand that can solve all crises, but we have proved that it is possible to build a stable and democratic continent. It is that prospect that now unites us in the Balkans, gives hope to Greek- Turkish relations and creates a common vision for Greek and Turkish Cypriots. The United Nations can learn from our experience as it prepares to undertake necessary reforms. What the European Union has provided is not a magic wand. We have simply said that matters of war and peace are so important for humankind that they cannot merely be left up to leaders, no matter how great they may be. They cannot be left up to negotiators, no matter how skilful they may be. They cannot be left up to earthquakes, apocalypses or inspirations, however momentous they may be. What is needed is a stable, sustainable, secure environment of common values, international law, accepted practice and purpose. It is within that secure environment that we can work out roadmaps, benchmarks, milestones, target dates and goals that can become both credible and powerful tools for the peaceful resolution of conflicts and the establishment of lasting institutions of stability and conviviality. That is why the United Nations has become so important for Iraq and its people. That is why the United Nations and the Quartet are so important for the implementation of the road map to solve the Palestinian conflict and the wider Middle East conflict. If we differed in Europe on the means of dealing with Iraq, we remain united in our conviction that the United Nations has a vital role to play in the reconstruction and stabilization process. Indeed, I would argue that the current predicament in Iraq is a stark reminder that multilateral cooperation is an imperative for world peace and security. It will only be possible to bring lasting peace to Iraq if we all work together. In referring to the importance of the role of the United Nations in Iraq we are simply stating the obvious need to create a stable international environment within which solutions can be nurtured, and where they can mature, in order to stabilize the region. It is within that context that it must be possible to realize a Palestinian State by 2005, a State that lives 27 side by side with a secure Israel. It is also within that context that during our presidency of the European Union we placed great emphasis on engaging in a meaningful dialogue of cultures that could hopefully heal the deepening rifts with regard to how different cultures view our changing world. We also devoted considerable efforts during Greece's presidency to strengthening Europe's relations with the Arab world. We hope that that dialogue can continue to be an investment in, and an instrument for, furthering peace, democracy and prosperity. Iraq challenged Europe to think globally. We realized that in order to safeguard our citizens' security we had to develop stronger foreign and defence policies. We took the initiative during our presidency to launch the first European security strategy. We are now creating more clearly defined defence policies and greater military and crisis-management capabilities. Last June, the European Union adopted its first strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as well as a joint-action plan on terrorism. That was quickly followed by a framework agreement on weapons of mass destruction between the European Union and the United States. Similarly, problems such as terrorism, trafficking in drugs, arms and people, and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction all point to a world where conflict is not confined to national frontiers. It is only logical to conclude that most problems can only be properly addressed through multilateral action and policies in our global village. Sustainable development will bring about sustainable peace. But sustainable peace also depends on the freedom of our citizens: freedom of choice, freedom to participate, freedom from oppression and freedom from fear and discrimination. Democracy bodes well for security, because security cannot be achieved without the legitimacy of our institutions and decisions. But democracy cannot be imposed, it must be nurtured. That is the difficult task ahead, namely, to create democratic processes in a trans-national way. That is becoming a global challenge that we cannot afford to ignore. It must be possible, otherwise we will always be prey to extremist forces that resort to violence, often exploiting the sense of exclusion among our citizens, many of whom feel excluded from prosperity and human rights. This year, such forces were responsible for the untimely deaths of three champions of democracy. Allow me to mention their names: Zoran Djindjić, Sergio Vieira de Mello and Anna Lindh. Their tragic deaths pose a critical challenge to the very freedom and democracy they fought so hard to defend. We must not allow the threat of violence, intolerance and fear to hold our democratic societies hostage. We must not let insecurity blind us to the simple truth that democracy holds the key to a world without violence. In our global village today, our challenge is to see to it that we have an international system that truly governs democratically. We must ask ourselves tough questions. How representative and accountable are our international institutions? Who decides on global rules and regulations? Who implements those decisions? Whose interests do they serve? Why do so many of our citizens feel moved to stage protests outside international summits? How can we address their grievances and include them in the decision-making process? If we can find satisfactory answers to these questions we will have come a long way towards replacing today's insecurity with tomorrow's opportunities. Building on our long history of democracy, Greece is committed to supporting and developing new democratic practices. One way to do so is through the Internet, which has created radical new possibilities for reinvigorating and enriching democratic dialogue. We created an on-line experiment during our presidency of the European Union that is called e-Vote, an electronic pilot project through which citizens can participate in ongoing debates. Three months from now, we will assemble at Geneva for the first phase of the World Summit on the Information Society. There Greece will host a special conference on the promise of electronic democracy. I invite the entire Assembly to attend. Finally, in this global village we also need to have global festivals, even with our many difficulties, to celebrate humankind and our common values. The Olympic Games are one such festival. Greece will have the honour to host a great homecoming on the occasion of the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens. We have introduced in the General Assembly a new draft resolution on the subject of building a peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic Ideal. We want to encourage the notion that it is possible to create lasting peace from a pause in hostilities. The United Nations and, in particular, the Secretary-General have long championed the value of peaceful cooperation through sport. Since 1993, the 28 Assembly has unanimously adopted six resolutions calling for a truce during the Olympic Games. This draft resolution, like the ones before it, calls on all Member States to observe the Olympic Truce, the longest peace accord in ancient history. I urge the Assembly to support that draft resolution. Let us reaffirm our commitment to the spirit of peaceful cooperation upon which the Olympics were founded. Let us send a symbolic message from this international body of peace for a peaceful Olympics and, ultimately, for a more peaceful world. Let us prove that that too is possible. ﻿It gives me great pleasure to convey to you, Sir, and to your friendly country, Saint Lucia, our sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I am confident that your great skills and abilities will guarantee the success of our proceedings at this session. I also would like to express to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, deep appreciation for his remarkable stewardship of the fifty-seventh session. I would also like to take this opportunity to extend to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, our thanks and appreciation for his tireless efforts to strengthen the role of our Organization in order to enable it to attain its objectives of achieving peace, security and development in the world. Since the opening of the previous Assembly session, the world has witnessed a series of developments that have contributed to the further deterioration of global security and stability. Crises and conflicts are proliferating, while there has been an increase in poverty and exclusion and in the spread of disease in many parts of the world. Faced with this array of challenges, the international community is called upon to assume its responsibilities and take resolute action. All Member States must renew their commitment to the noble principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, work together in the framework of an international consensus to strengthen the role of our Organization in the maintenance of peace and security and find solutions to current international issues. We are convinced that that is the best way to ensure that the world is governed by the principles of dialogue, cooperation and consensus. The new challenges facing the international community and the necessity of establishing relations based on justice, equity and harmony, demand that we unite our efforts to ensure that the United Nations remains the framework for our common endeavours to preserve peace and security — the embodiment of international law, to which all countries must be committed and which they must implement in a non- selective manner, without double standards. These new challenges also require the United Nations to enhance its efficiency and improve its working methods, taking into account the noble principles enshrined in the Charter, by strengthening its main organs, particularly the Security Council, which must regain its credibility with regard to the maintenance of international peace and security, and by revitalizing and enhancing the role of the General Assembly in the interests of peace, security and development. In this regard, we support the Secretary-General’s call to accelerate the introduction of necessary reforms, and we stress that Tunisia, which has participated in the past in the debate on these reforms, stands ready to continue to contribute effectively to international efforts aimed at achieving this objective, which is now more urgent than ever. We are convinced that the deterioration of the global situation requires the international community to adopt a comprehensive and multidimensional approach, based on the interdependence of peace and security on the one hand, and development on the other. We believe that peace and security cannot prevail throughout the world unless the development needs of all peoples are addressed. We also recognize that development cannot be achieved in the absence of security and peace for all. Of course the pursuit of such an objective will require all members of the international community to pool their efforts and show greater solidarity so as to eliminate the root causes of tension and to eradicate poverty and deprivation, which are breeding grounds for trouble and instability. Since the change of 7 November 1987, Tunisia has called for the adoption of such an approach and has presented, at the regional and international levels, numerous initiatives and proposals, whose objective is to build the foundation for a world with a greater capacity to attain the goal of peace, security and development and to spread the values of dialogue, tolerance and solidarity among all peoples. 20 In this context, President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali of Tunisia called in 1989, from this lofty rostrum, for the conclusion of a pact for peace and progress in the framework of the United Nations, drawing together the countries of the North and the South and based on peace and justice and the strengthening of cooperation among all countries of the world. All the initiatives and proposals put forward by the President of Tunisia since that date have been consistent with that call, as they stem from the determination of Tunisia and its President to ensure the effectiveness of our country’s contribution to addressing issues of peace, security and development, particularly in relation to the phenomenon of terrorism and the means of combating it and to the implementation of mechanisms for conflict resolution in the Arab and African regions. In line with the comprehensive character of the Tunisian approach, the President of Tunisia has consistently called on the international community to help developing countries strengthen their economies through a number of regional and international initiatives such as those related to debt relief, in particular debt recycling for middle-income countries; the transfer of science and technology to developing countries and a call for the convening of a world summit on the information society. President Ben Ali also called for the dissemination of the values of solidarity and compassion as a means of contributing to the eradication of poverty, marginalization and exclusion in all parts of the world — a call that led to the establishment of the World Solidarity Fund. Tunisia, which has succeeded in creating a secure, stable and well-balanced society that is integrated into the mainstream of the modern world, believes that the well-being of humankind is the ultimate objective and, on the basis of its own national experience, that the fight against extremism and terrorism, which constitute a serious threat to the entire world, cannot succeed unless it is comprehensive and multidimensional in nature and takes into account not only the security dimension but also the need to address the root causes of the phenomenon. We therefore underscore the necessity of working to develop a common international approach to fighting the phenomenon of extremism and terrorism, taking into account all relevant international conventions. In this context, pending the achievement of the necessary progress in the adoption of a comprehensive international mechanism to fight terrorism, we would like to reiterate Tunisia’s call for the conclusion of a code of conduct to fight terrorism, to which all countries adhere and which will include the principles around which a consensus could be built. Such a code of conduct could constitute a common denominator in collectively confronting this phenomenon. An international conference could be convened to lay the groundwork for such a code of conduct. The wide international support enjoyed by the proposal to establish the World Solidarity Fund testifies to the need for such a mechanism, which is aimed at reducing the suffering, poverty, exclusion and marginalization endured by a great number of peoples throughout the world, particularly in Africa. While we reiterate our sincere gratitude to Member States for their support for this initiative, we remain convinced that, as the Fund was set up in February 2003 and has become one of the official mechanisms of the United Nations system, Member States will spare no effort in speeding up its operationalization, thus allowing it to begin its activities as soon as possible and thereby contribute to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. We therefore urge the international community and all relevant actors, including State and private organizations, to mobilize the necessary financial resources for the Fund so as to allow it to fulfil its noble humanitarian objectives. It is also imperative, in this regard, to speed up the establishment of the proposed high-level committee, whose task is to define the strategy of the World Solidarity Fund and to mobilize the resources needed for its activities. The widening digital gap between industrialized and developing countries requires us to take the necessary practical measures to enable all countries of the world to take advantage of the broad prospects provided by the technological revolution in the field of communications. In that context, Tunisia called for the convening of a World Summit on the Information Society. We are now intensifying our preparation for the second phase of that Summit, which will be held in Tunis in November 2005. While expressing its determination to contribute effectively to the first phase, which is due to be held in Geneva in December this year, Tunisia will do its 21 utmost to ensure that the Tunis summit will constitute an opportunity to elaborate a common approach, in order to contribute to strengthening cooperation between all members of the international community and to consolidate the role of information and communication technologies in development. We are confident that the member States that chose Tunisia to host the Summit will do their utmost to make the summit a success. Convinced of the role of sports in strengthening the bonds of friendship, cooperation and rapprochement between peoples, and taking into account the importance of physical education as an instrument to consolidate the foundations of peace and promote development in the world, Tunisia decided to present to this session of the General Assembly a draft resolution proclaiming the year 2004 an international year of sports and physical education in the service of peace and development. We express the hope that this proposal, which has already received the support of the African Union and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, will get wide support from the international community and other international sports bodies. The Middle East continues to suffer from a cycle of violence and tension. The road map, which Tunisia supported, revived hope for the resumption of the peace process. However, that hope was soon faced with Israel’s insistence on imposing the reality of occupation and continuous military campaigns against the Palestinian people, including the decision to expel President Yasser Arafat, despite the Palestinian Authority’s readiness to fulfil its commitments in the framework of the road map. In the face of the deteriorating situation, we believe that the international community, particularly the members of the Quartet, should not allow the will of peace to be defeated and should therefore spare no effort to enhance the peace process. While reiterating its attachment to the peace process and its determination to contribute effectively to its success, Tunisia stresses the need to respect the legitimacy of the Palestinian Authority and its leadership, chosen freely by the Palestinian people. We also believe that, given the continuing tragic conditions of the Palestinian people, it is high time to heed the call made by President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali during the Extraordinary Arab Summit held in Cairo in October 2000 to provide the Palestinian people with international protection, particularly as that call was supported by many States. The ongoing suffering of the Iraqi people is a source of great concern and profound preoccupation for the international community. While remaining attached to the principle of the independence and territorial integrity of Iraq, we wish to emphasize the need for the international community to join hands and for the United Nations to assume its central role to ensure that peace and stability prevail in that fraternal country, thus allowing for the start of reconstruction and the return to normal life for the Iraqi people. In that regard, Tunisia hopes that the adoption of the first steps, which were welcomed by Security Council resolution 1500 (2003), will lead as soon as possible to restoration of the sovereignty of the Iraqi people. Furthermore, while condemning in the strongest possible terms the terrorist attack against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, we pay a tribute to the Secretary-General, who, despite the gravity of that painful attack, decided to let the United Nations continue to pursue its efforts of helping the Iraqi people overcome their present predicament. Tunisia attaches great importance to the various forms of integration and partnership within the regional groupings it belongs to. In that regard, we avail ourselves of this opportunity to express our deep satisfaction following the agreement reached between sisterly Libya and the United States, Great Britain and France on the issues relating to the Lockerbie and Union de transports aériens incidents, following Tripoli’s fulfilment of all its commitments under the relevant Security Council resolutions. We have no doubt that, now that the sanctions have been completely lifted, Libya will fully resume its role in the Maghreb and Mediterranean regions, thus contributing to reinvigorating the Arab Maghreb Union, which will help promote more complementarity and integration between the countries of the region and will consolidate the foundations of security, stability and prosperity in the Maghreb, Arab, African and Mediterranean areas. The settlement of this dispute augurs well, as it coincides with the preparations Tunisia is undertaking to host the first summit of the 5+5 dialogue, to be held in December 2003, among the countries of the Maghreb and the European countries of the western Mediterranean. We look forward to this event as a step towards enhancing partnership between the countries of the region and deepening the values of dialogue, tolerance and moderation among the peoples of that region. 22 Convinced of the need to strengthen common Arab action and to consolidate the role of the League of Arab States to enable it to attain its noble objectives, Tunisia shall endeavour, during its presidency of the next Arab Summit in 2004, to further strengthen the bonds of cooperation, solidarity and complementarity among the Arab countries. The most recent African Union Summit, held in Maputo in July 2003, marked the beginning of the launching process of the African Union. The African Union is determined to achieve the objective of revitalizing the African continent and to confront the serious challenges it faces. The Union hopes to get the necessary international support in order to achieve its goals. Undoubtedly, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), which is bringing a new vision for a serious and constructive partnership with the United Nations system, its specialized agencies, the developed countries and other relevant institutions, deserves the support of the international community. Such support constitutes an incentive for the African Union to attempt to meet legitimate African needs and address all aspects of marginalization in our continent. The difficult global economic environment has had an adverse impact on the economies of the developing countries in general and the African economies in particular. Fierce trade competition and protectionist measures, as well as currency fluctuations and the exacerbation of the debt burden, constitute major constraints that have impeded progress of the developing countries. In that regard, we emphasize the need for all international partners to show the political will necessary to implement the commitments of the Millennium Development Goals, as well as the outcomes of major United Nations conferences and summits, notably the International Conference on Financing for Development held in Monterrey and the World Summit on Sustainable Development held in Johannesburg, if we are to overcome this difficult situation and provide fresh impetus to development efforts. The difficult situation we face today should not discourage us or weaken our determination to achieve the objectives of peace, security and stability. We must show patience, resolve and perseverance and collectively pledge to strengthen the United Nations and make this session a new starting point for our Organization in order to enable it to effectively play its role and respond to our collective aspirations for a more secure and stable world. ﻿At the outset, I pay sincere tribute to the President on his election to preside over the Assembly at the fifty-eighth session, which is being held in a particularly important context in this century. His long experience and his expertise on international issues, as well as the role that his country, Saint Lucia, plays in the Caribbean region, guarantee that our work will be a success. I also congratulate the other members of the Bureau, and cannot fail to commend the skill with which the President’s distinguished predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, of the Czech Republic, conducted the work of the fifty-seventh session. I reiterate to the Secretary-General the full support of the Transitional Government of the Central African Republic for his unceasing work at the head of the Organization to ensure peace and security in a world beset by terrorist threats and widespread insecurity. The Central African Republic joins those who have honoured the memory of the United Nations personnel who fell victim to the wanton violent act of terrorism in Baghdad on 19 August, including Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and reiterates its sincere sympathy to the Secretary-General. We appreciate his decision to maintain the United Nations mission in Iraq, despite everything. 24 For a decade, the General Assembly has adopted many recommendations, whose implementation has not always brought solutions to our diverse shared concerns. Before my delegation contributes its appraisal of the state of the world, against the backdrop of the many challenges of the twenty-first century, I would like, on behalf of His Excellency François Bozizé, President of the Central African Republic, and of the Republic’s Government and people, to express the wish that our meetings may be crowned with success. A world that cherishes peace, progress, solidarity and concord is the objective to which the entire world aspires and the main philosophy of the founding fathers of the United Nations. Indeed, when peace is not assured, various crises ensue. Aggravating factors like destitution, penury, extreme poverty, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, combined with intolerance, injustice, indifference and social inequality, greatly threaten the balance of peace in many regimes of the world, and particularly in the Central African Republic. It was against this background that a surge in patriotism occurred on 15 March this year in the Central African Republic as the outcome of a process to which all the leading lights of the nation contributed. The situation that prevailed in my country before 15 March was the subject of several debates, and unsuccessful attempts at settlement, by the Security Council, the African Union’s/Central Organ of the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution, the Central African Economic and Monetary Community (CAEMC) and the Community of Sahelo-Saharan States. A number of bilateral initiatives also failed. I reiterate once again the gratitude of the Government and people of the Central African Republic to the Secretary-General, the United Nations Peace-building Support Office in the Central African Republic, the Security Council members and particularly friendly countries, who generously contributed to supporting the Central African people at an extremely difficult time. Since 15 March the resolve of the Transitional Government to work for a return to normal constitutional life has resulted in significant advances, in the framework of the implementation of commitments according to the following timetable: May 2003, establishment of the National Transition Council to replace Parliament;. September 2003, the holding of a national dialogue for the Central Africans to examine the deep causes of their long-standing confrontations; 2004, holding of a constitutional referendum; the third quarter of 2004, presidential elections; and fourth quarter of 2004, municipal and legislative elections. This consensual transition, scheduled to end in January 2005, should establish security throughout the country, improve public finances and revive the economic and social sectors, which are engines of growth. These main points of our overall policy and of the Transitional Government’s economic and social recovery strategy now being implemented are supported and commended by the neighbouring countries in general, and in particular by the members of CAEMAC, which acknowledge the work of the new regime. The member countries of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, at their nineteenth ministerial meeting, held in Brazzaville from 14 to 17 May this year, expressed their support for the change that had occurred in Bangui in a declaration, and appealed to the international community to provide assistance to the Central African Republic. The exhaustive report of the situation before 15 March presented by the President of the Republic, His Excellency General François Bozizé, to the special summit of CAEMAC devoted exclusively to the situation in the Central African Republic led heads of State and of delegations to understand and support the Transitional Government’s efforts to bring about a return to constitutional order. Clear signs of the significant progress in establishing national reconciliation and restoring constitutional and democratic order are the fruitful discussions with many friendly countries and partners, the consultations between the Central African Republic and the European Union which have been going on since 22 May, and the fact-finding visit to Bangui from 17 to 21 August of the Committee of Ambassadors of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States. In his introductory report to the Millennium Summit, the Secretary-General recalled that people are the purpose of any activity. Nothing could be more true. My delegation would like to see the United 25 Nations regain its authority in order to help promote human rights, democracy and development throughout the world. Protecting and guaranteeing human rights contributes to a country’s national concord and to the strengthening of its democracy. This was so well understood by the Central African Republic that on 15 March we chose consensual governance, at the centre of which the well-being of the citizens and the protection and guarantee of their rights are the highest priorities. Implementing this will require resources that permit the widespread promotion of human rights and social development. My delegation hopes that the United Nations will become more involved, at the beginning of this third millennium, in international action to create a true human rights culture. To do this, the United Nations needs to reform, renew itself and adapt to today’s world. It will have to rationalize its procedures, methods and approaches to all questions within its purview. It will be understood that my delegation would like to see the Security Council reformed, so that it may better discharge its noble mission. Even if the veto is not as abused as it was during the cold war, Security Council membership needs to be reformulated, both at the level of permanent membership and non-permanent membership, in order to reflect the new realities of our world. This is the view of the delegation of the Central African Republic. The need for a new approach in relations between States means that we all need to make a real commitment. This led to the adoption of the Constitutive Act of the African Union as an expression of the desire of Africa to meet, together with the United Nations, all the challenges of the twenty-first century. My country will spare no effort to promote this new dynamism. ﻿On behalf of the President of the Republic of Panama, Mireya Elisa Moscoso Rodr'guez, and on my own behalf, I extend my warmest congratulations to Mr. Hunte on his election as President of the General Assembly at this session. The delegation of Panama is deeply gratified that he has been appointed to guide our debates, because he represents here the commitment of developing countries, and in particular those of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, to multilateral efforts to achieve peace, respect for human rights, and sustainable development. Stability and security, in their broadest sense, are things to which all humanity aspires. We will never achieve these objectives, however, if, in attempting to shape this new world, we counter the aspirations of our peoples or attempt to base it on the systematic development of grand military alliances. Human security, which is sought by all States, large and small, depends exclusively on our dedication to the collective security architecture that we have concentrated in the United Nations. Our duty, then, is to defend and strengthen at all costs our Organization’s objectives and purposes, in particular the integrity and authority of our international legal system. The world has been through an extraordinary experience this year, one that was hotly debated and the fallout from which is still far from clear. It is not too much to say that the trepidations over the events in Iraq that were felt here in the United Nations and beyond have had a number of repercussions both on the internal work of this Organization and on the conduct of international relations. Nevertheless, Panama is convinced that the differences that were aired in the Security Council are a clear demonstration that it has functioned as it should; that the diversity of opinions and approaches that exist in the world were aired there without reservations; and that, although differences remained at the end of the process, it had the marginal benefit of highlighting the measurement and control requirements that must be taken into account in the Security Council. Apart from these differences, the Security Council acted appropriately in establishing a pragmatic relationship with the occupying Powers in Iraq by means of resolution 1483 (2003) of May 22. In addition, our Organization is demonstrating that it has an irreplaceable role to play in the humanitarian field, just as it has in the political, diplomatic, economic and financial spheres. The shocking slaughter that took place in Baghdad on 19 August and the killings of 22 September — painful acts of terrorism that took the lives of many national and international civil servants of the United Nations, including Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello — must move us to consider and adopt urgent measures to ensure that the international community takes concerted action as soon as possible towards the reconstruction of Iraq. To all their colleagues and to the great United Nations family, we express the most sincere condolences of Mireya Moscoso, President of Panama, her Government and the people of Panama. During the Millennium Summit, Panama asked Member States, among other things, to return to the original spirit of the United Nations Charter. Consistent with that request, we hope that all of us will accept the obligation to reconcile ourselves with the general interests of the international community and to avoid acting solely in light of our particular strategic, military or political interests. We repeat that request today, and call attention to the urgent need for strengthening the multilateral system as the guarantee of stability and security, which are fundamental for peaceful coexistence. Today, perhaps more than ever before, we must tackle the task of reforming our Organization so that the General Assembly can fulfil its proper function as the principal political body, and the Security Council can have a greater capacity to deal with the new challenges that the end of the cold war has brought with it. To achieve this objective, Panama stresses the contents of the Declaration on the Strengthening of the United Nations and Security Council Reform, adopted at the Eleventh Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Rio Group, which met at Asunci n, Paraguay, in August 1997, calling upon Member States of the United Nations to correct the present imbalances in the composition of the Security Council, improve its decision-making mechanisms, and bring greater transparency to the conduct of its work. 21 We firmly believe that an extremely important element in this and other tasks facing us is the announcement by the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, that he will establish a high-level panel comprising eminent personalities from all regions of the world. Panama and the world congratulate him on having proposed this initiative. We also wish to have the General Assembly become the forum in which to seek a solution to the problem between the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan. As Panama has noted on previous occasions, Taiwan has, in a sense, been left hanging in time and space, protected and yet unprotected. Recently, in response to the need to combat the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic, the World Health Organization was able to provide direct and effective assistance to Taiwan without violating or weakening the fundamental elements of the positions of the parties to that controversy. We believe that the United Nations system could act in several ways to help the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan resolve their dispute in a peaceful way, while we fulfil our most cherished objective of responding, without exception, to the social needs of humanity. Last July we held here the first Biennial Meeting of States to Consider the Implementation of the 2001 Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. We are still quite far from achieving our objectives, both nationally and internationally, but we believe that that biennial meeting injected new vigour into the efforts that we must all make to keep our commitments. We repeat our position, put forward at that meeting, that the purposes and code of conduct put before Member States in the first two articles of the Charter must be crucial for securing peace and understanding among the nations of the world. We would also stress that the massive clandestine trafficking in small arms and light weapons, which fuels internal conflicts, dictatorships, guerrilla movements and international terrorism, can only be blocked through close international cooperation. With equal determination, we must pursue the networks of traffickers in narcotics and diamonds, which use bogus firms and banks, thrive by corrupting public officials and are constantly working to destroy our societies. In a follow-up to the Monterrey Summit, we in the countries of the South renew our call for creating a more just and efficient financial system, for eliminating the inequities of globalization and financing for development, and for raising the depressed prices of our raw materials and other export products. As we have stated on previous occasions, there is also an urgent need to agree on the proper mechanisms for forestalling financial crises and finding a solution to unsustainable external debt burdens, in accordance with resolution 57/240. We now approach the High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development, which will be held in this city on 29 and 30 October 2003. We must seize this opportunity to reinvigorate this part of our activity, and to review the progress achieved in ensuring effective Secretariat support, pursuant to resolution 57/273. At the second meeting of the Ad Hoc Committee to consider proposals for a comprehensive and integral international convention to promote and protect the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities, it was decided to create a working group to prepare and submit a draft text for negotiation among Member States and accredited observers. Panama’s position is represented in the Declaration of Quito of 11 April 2003, which, in brief, called for promoting and protecting the rights and dignity of the 600 million persons living with disabilities around the world, the great majority of whom suffer constantly from poverty and lack of understanding. The international convention that we seek, as noted in the Declaration, must reflect “the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights and the principle of non-discrimination.” These concepts are thoroughly established in the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, international human rights agreements and other related instruments. It is timely to refer here to the persistent and growing worldwide HIV/AIDS pandemic. Latin American and Caribbean countries, too, are confronted with a serious situation in this area. The Pan American Health Organization met in Washington on 11 June to address this issue, and noted that the demographic and social impact of HIV/AIDS in our region threatens to undermine the ability to carry out development projects. We therefore call on the United Nations system to make available to Latin America and the Caribbean adequate resources to prevent this scourge. As is well 22 known, our region today has some 2.5 million people suffering from this terrible disease. It is clear that the moral and technical presence of the United Nations is essential in efforts to eradicate political, racial and religious intolerance, and in support of negotiations for pacification, reunification, self-determination and reconstruction, in order to ensure that the peoples concerned can enjoy the benefits of development. Having said this, I urge our Organization to find expeditious ways of helping those who are committed to the so-called road map for resolving the conflict between Palestine and Israel to secure the active cooperation of the countries of the region and of the Governments of Israel and the Palestine National Authority, so as to overcome the current scepticism over any imminent possibility of seeing the two peoples living in peace, within secure boundaries, as two sovereign States. Ensuring that that urgent task is carried out successfully will require the ongoing participation of all of the neighbouring States. They must demonstrate a joint willingness to become guarantors of the stability and security of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples and guardians of strict adherence to the Charter of the United Nations and to Security Council resolutions. I would like to conclude by referring briefly to the International Criminal Court. With the election of its Judges and Prosecutor, the Court has become a reality. We recognize the concern that has been aroused, particularly among the States parties to the Rome Statute, by the fact that the Security Council, in its resolution 1487 (2003), renewed for one year the provisions of resolution 1422 (2002) with regard to immunity in cases relating to peacekeeping operations, as well as by the fact that bilateral immunity agreements have been negotiated separately by several countries on the basis of article 98 of the Statute. Panama, a firm supporter of the International Criminal Court, believes that these pragmatic agreements are a response to a temporary situation, and that they cannot and must not detract from the purposes and objectives of the Rome Statute. As States parties, we cannot shrink from the obligations imposed by our domestic jurisdictions in matters relating to war crimes, and we are therefore convinced that the political concerns and suspicions of today will disappear as it becomes apparent that persons who commit monstrous crimes against humanity can never be shielded by any State or protected by dreams of impunity. Any State that holds to a different interpretation on this point will be swimming against the tide of human progress and international law.  ﻿On behalf of the delegation of Viet Nam, I wish to warmly congratulate Julian Hunte on his assumption of the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I believe that under his able guidance this session will come to a fruitful conclusion. I also take this opportunity to express our great appreciation for the significant contributions made by Mr. Jan Kavan during the previous session of the General Assembly. Earlier last month, we were all shocked and shared in the boundless grief over the tragic demise of our dear Sergio Vieira de Mello, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, and his colleagues in the barbarous bombing of the United Nations offices in Baghdad. We will not be discouraged by that loss. Instead, we should pursue even further the efforts of the United Nations to help the Iraqi people to restore stability and reconstruct their country. We are living in a world full of events with profound implications for the various aspects of international life. They include the war in Iraq, the bombing of the United Nations offices in Baghdad, the outbreak of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), increased violence in the Middle East, as well as continuing terrorist attacks in various parts of the world. Coupled with poverty, disease, floods, droughts and conflicts, they continue to take many innocent lives. This breaks our hearts and should not be condoned, especially when mankind has entered the third millennium of human civilization. We must make full use of the great achievements registered in the areas of science and technology and economy and trade, uphold the values of civilization, and serve the common development and prosperity of all nations. Strengthening international peace and security and enhancing development remain our primary task. Only in an environment of peace and stability can nations concentrate their energy to meet the challenges of development and to achieve poverty eradication. Healthy, equitable international relations can be built only on the principles of the United Nations Charter 23 and international law, in particular the principle of respect for national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and the principle of non- interference in the internal affairs of States. Development cooperation and international economic and trade relations can be built only when all participate on an equal footing, on the basis of mutual benefit and with favourable assistance to developing countries. However, there continue to be certain egoistic tendencies that are contrary to that good. Protectionist measures, including anti-dumping measures, have been imposed to prevent developing countries’ products from entering developed countries’ markets. That runs counter not only to World Trade Organization (WTO) agreements but also to normal trade practices. A typical case was that of the recent unfair lawsuit against the sale of Viet Nam’s catfish in the United States market. The same story recurs in the case of cotton-growers in Burkina Faso and again in the case of indigenous cultivators of medicinal herbs in Brazil. These examples should serve as a further lesson that developing countries will always be at a disadvantage in the current international trade system, as the Secretary-General himself recently observed. By the same token, the failure to reach agreement at the fifth WTO Ministerial Conference in Cancún is truly regrettable. We must enhance efforts to restructure the world trade and financial systems to make them more democratic and open, giving developing countries a better chance. Despite the considerable efforts by the United Nations to achieve the goals set out in the Millennium Declaration, there is still a long way to go to meet common needs and expectations. Today, global problems increasingly affect human security and survival. The SARS outbreak and AIDS were examples of how devastating such problems can be. We must be resolute in solving global problems, especially those related to development, poverty eradication and disease prevention. Priority should be given to building cooperative frameworks based on reliable partnerships, mutual respect, shared responsibility and the serious undertaking of commitments. Practical and effective measures must be taken to pursue the United Nations Millennium Development Goals and the commitments made at various international conferences. In that regard, we welcome the efforts of the Secretary-General to elaborate a road map for the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. We also call upon developed countries to better fulfil the commitment of allocating 0.7 per cent of gross national product to official development assistance. Multilateralism is crucial to resolving global issues. The United Nations, the universal Organization, continues to play an important role in the fields of peace and development and in building healthy international relations; to meet the confidence and expectations of nations, it must do so more effectively and practically. That requires a stronger and more democratic United Nations and Security Council, ensuring the better representation of the developing countries and those able to make a positive contribution to common objectives. I wish to reaffirm Viet Nam’s support for Japan, Germany, India and other capable members from various continents being among the future permanent members of a reformed Security Council. Following the events of 11 September 2001, the world has made great efforts to combat terrorism. The message is very clear: terrorism must be condemned and eliminated from human civilization. As this common fight may be long and arduous, we need to cooperate on the basis of the principles of the United Nations Charter, as well as to join in an endeavour to solve, inter alia, the problems of poverty, injustice and oppression, which give rise to terrorism. Viet Nam supports international efforts aimed at disarmament and at the peaceful resolution of conflicts on the basis of respect for the sovereignty and legitimate interests of the parties concerned. We call for an end to embargoes and sanctions imposed against other countries, especially the unilateral embargo against Cuba that for many decades has caused its people to endure untold suffering. Peace, security and reconstruction are now the most urgent tasks in Iraq. Viet Nam reaffirms its support for Iraq’s independence and sovereignty. We hope that stability will soon be restored and that a Government chosen by the Iraqi people will be established at an early date so that they can focus on national reconstruction and development in keeping with their self-determination. The United Nations should continue its worthy, active role in resolving the Iraqi issue and in reconstructing the country. In that regard, Viet Nam has decided to contribute humanitarian assistance to the Iraqi people. 24 Viet Nam reaffirms its consistent support for the just cause and inalienable rights of the Palestinian people. We call upon the parties concerned to exercise restraint, to persevere in negotiation and to accelerate their pace on the road to a just and durable peace in the Middle East that takes due account of the legitimate interests of the parties. Any unilateral action can only worsen the already volatile situation in the region. Viet Nam supports peaceful efforts aimed at denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. We hope that the negotiations initiated through the six-party talks in Beijing last August will lead to a satisfactory conclusion for the sake of peace, stability and development on the Peninsula, in the region and in the rest of the world. In our region, faced with complex and rapid developments and challenges in the international and regional landscape, the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) has produced new initiatives and concrete steps to strengthen its solidarity, resilience and equitable development while further intensifying its relations with friends and partners abroad. At its forthcoming Summit, to be held early next month in Bali, Indonesia, ASEAN will redouble its efforts to realize ASEAN Vision 2020, the Hanoi Plan of Action and the Hanoi Declaration on narrowing the development gap for closer ASEAN integration. As an outward-looking association, ASEAN continues to attach great importance to broadening and deepening its relations with other countries. China, Russia and India will accede to the ASEAN Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in South-East Asia, thus making the Treaty the code of conduct in inter-State relations. Having adopted the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea, ASEAN and China are embarking on a search for concrete ways to implement the Declaration, thus contributing to confidence and cooperation in that important part of the world. In the economic field, ASEAN has been discussing closer economic partnership, including a possible free trade agreement, with its dialogue partners — the United States, the European Union, Russia and India, to name only a few. Viet Nam consistently pursues a foreign policy of national independence, self-reliance, openness, diversification and multilateralization of international relations, and being a friend and reliable partner in the international community. Along those lines, Viet Nam has increasingly enhanced friendly and cooperative relations with other countries as well as with regional and international organizations. At present, we are actively preparing for Viet Nam’s early admission to the World Trade Organization. With an annual economic growth rate of approximately 7 per cent, a favourable and secure investment environment, hospitable people, beautiful landscapes and other rewarding discoveries, Viet Nam continues to be a most attractive country for investors and tourists. Later this year, we will host the South-East Asian Games, the largest sports event in the region. Next will be the Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) Summit in 2004, followed by the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Summit in 2006. We are confident that we will live up to expectations. Today’s challenges, both old and new, are becoming global; they require measures of a more global and multilateral nature. The United Nations therefore plays an important role in coordinating international efforts to effectively respond to those challenges and to work for peace and development. In that regard, the principles of the United Nations Charter must be upheld, and their actual implementation must be ensured. For its part, Viet Nam, as a responsible Member State and reliable partner, will continue to contribute actively to that common endeavour.  ﻿On 19 August 2003, the international community took a blow to the body in Baghdad in odious acts that caused the tragic loss of approximately 20 United Nations officials, including the lamented Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary- General. By attacking a symbol as prestigious as the United Nations, the forces of evil intended to destroy the firm resolve of our Organization to carry out its mission of safeguarding international peace and security. Those unspeakable crimes demonstrate once again the intensity of terrorism in all its forms and underscore the vital need for the international community to reaffirm its solidarity in order to find the ways and means to stamp out this scourge, which remains one of the greatest threats to humankind’s harmonious development. My delegation energetically condemns those vile acts and pays tribute to the memory of the victims. It renews to the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, the sincere compassion of the people and Government of Guinea, particularly of His Excellency General Lansana Conté, President of the Republic of Guinea. My delegation also wishes to take this opportunity to express its deep gratitude to Mr. Annan for the courage and the effectiveness with which he is leading the destiny of our Organization. The Republic of Guinea will be unstinting in its efforts to make its contribution to the influence of the United Nations, which, it hardly needs to be said, remains the primary framework for concerted action in the conduct of international relations. I wish to take this opportunity to convey my delegation’s warmest congratulations to you, Mr. President on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. Appreciating your great ability, there can be no doubt that you will skilfully follow up the work of your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, whose dedication and skill were greatly appreciated in the course of the previous session. Africa, where more than one third of the population lives in absolute poverty, continues, alas, to be the scene of fratricidal wars, whose negative effects undermine the development policies of its States. Notwithstanding that bitter state of affairs, marked progress has been made in extinguishing hotbeds of tension. Hope is reborn in West Africa. Sierra Leone is being stabilized, thanks to the active support of the international community, but also, and above all, thanks to the patriotism of Sierra Leoneans and the determination of their leaders to close the book on war. My country, while expressing its appreciation for the respect shown for the criteria for the withdrawal of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL), takes the view that the success of that plan also hinges on increased assistance to Sierra Leone, as well as the effective restoration of State authority throughout the territory. In Liberia, with the departure of President Charles Taylor on 11 August, a new era is becoming apparent for that country, scarred by 14 years of fratricidal war, which augurs well for the subregion as a whole — particularly the Mano River basin, whose overall development has long been jeopardized. We wish to pay tribute to the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations that have made it possible to secure a ceasefire and to achieve the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in Accra, thus opening the way for the establishment of a Government of transition and national reconciliation. My delegation appeals to the international community for effective support for the implementation of the Accra accord, so that Liberians can finally be reconciled among themselves and can tackle the reconstruction of their country in renewed democracy. 7 The joint action undertaken by ECOWAS, the United Nations and the development partners to deploy the multinational force and ensure the maintenance of peace in Liberia should be supported and welcomed. The establishment of this stabilization force has proved vital to facilitate the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, to make it possible to carry out a disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme and to promote the return of refugees and national reconciliation. However, my country remains convinced that the perpetrators of hateful crimes must answer for their acts. That is why we support unreservedly the decisions of the Special Court for Sierra Leone in its fight against impunity. That is a moral and political requirement. In Côte d’Ivoire, my delegation urges all the parties to pursue dialogue to implement effectively the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement, and thus achieve national reconciliation. In Guinea-Bissau, recent developments have made even more fragile a situation that was already precarious because of years of political instability and economic crisis. My delegation appeals for the creation of better conditions for a rapid return to normal constitutional life, which is vital to the recovery of that fraternal country. Guinea attaches great importance to the restoration of lasting peace in our subregion. It has paid a heavy price in terms of instability, whose negative consequences have impeded its progress. Despite a particularly difficult economic situation marked by the drastic drop in bauxite and aluminium prices and the soaring price of petroleum, Guinea continues to tackle the burden of refugees and displaced persons. I wish to reiterate the Guinean Government’s appeal to the donor community for increased assistance in managing refugees and displaced persons and for strengthening the capacity of our country to pursue its programme to combat poverty while consolidating its democratic achievements. I would like to address the situation in the Great Lakes region, where there are promising prospects. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, despite the humanitarian crisis in the eastern part, considerable progress has been made, particularly in the context of the disengagement of foreign armed forces and current demobilization and reintegration operations. We hope that the Transitional Government of National Unity will do its utmost to preserve the territorial integrity of the country and to promote a return to normal constitutional life. My delegation appeals to the international community to support the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) with the resources necessary to carry out its mandate, which has been enhanced by Security Council resolution 1493 (2003). In Burundi, my delegation welcomes the encouraging results in the implementation of the Arusha Agreement and calls on all parties to put an end to hostilities to strengthen the peace, which is still fragile, and to promote humanitarian assistance. In the Central African Republic, my delegation appreciates the commitment of the new authorities to promote the return to constitutional legality in the context of consensual management. In the Horn of Africa, the permanent and binding commitment of Ethiopia and Eritrea concerning the delimitation of borders is a prelude to the return to peace between the two countries. With regard to Somalia, my delegation hopes that the Mbagathi Conference in Kenya will make it possible to overcome past contradictions and restore comprehensive everlasting peace. I cannot fail to address the thorny question of the Western Sahara, which has mobilized the energies of the international community for decades. The Republic of Guinea, which has always advocated a peaceful settlement of the issue, remains convinced of the urgent need for a political settlement under the auspices the United Nations — the only body that can guarantee a fair and lasting solution that is mutually acceptable to all parties. The future of our continent is closely bound up with international peace and security, and so we will continue to express our profound concern about conflicts that cause upheavals in other parts of the world. First, in the Middle East, the appointment of Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas, the publication of the Quartet’s road map and the establishment of a unilateral cease-fire by the Palestinian armed groups had given us grounds for hope. These hopes, 8 unfortunately, are threatened by the resumption of the cycle of violence. We have together a historic duty to salvage peace. The international community and the Quartet must do everything to give a fresh impetus to the dialogue between the parties. For their part, Palestinians and Israelis have the obligation to honour their respective commitments, in order to win mutual trust. My delegation is convinced that a comprehensive and lasting settlement of the crisis in the Middle East necessarily involves tackling the Lebanese and Syrian aspects and the implementation of the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. Guinea, which has always been at the forefront in defending legitimate struggles for just causes, hails the historic role of President Yasser Arafat in restoring the inalienable rights of the martyred people of Palestine. Here we reiterate our firm opposition to any attempt to undermine his political or physical integrity, and once again send him our sympathy and support. We also encourage the new Prime Minister of Palestine, Mr. Ahmed Qorei, to do his utmost to create favourable conditions for dialogue aiming at a durable resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. On the question of Iraq, which is going through a phase that is crucial for its future, my delegation encourages the United Nations to continue and strengthen its peace mission and its mission of reconstruction and humanitarian assistance so that the Iraqis can quickly take charge of their country’s destiny in unity and democracy. With regard to Afghanistan, the international community needs to step up its assistance, particularly in the area of security and development assistance, so as to give support to the Transitional Administration, in implementation of the Bonn Agreement. My delegation urges on the Korean peninsula the parties to pursue their efforts to achieve the peaceful and independent reunification of the two Koreas and to settle the nuclear issue by dialogue. The Guinean Government reaffirms its commitment to the principle of a single China. It welcomes the efforts being made by the People’s Republic of China to safeguard international peace and security. Concerning the crisis in Cyprus, whose resolution is still bogged down, in spite of the Secretary-General’s determination, we appeal to the parties to show political will, so that they may return to the negotiating table on the basis of the revised plan. Poverty, armed conflicts, weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, organized transnational crime and violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, continue to be major obstacles to peace, security and development. Safeguarding international peace and security depends on our commitment to eradicating the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, as well as mercenary activities, all of which fuel conflicts, particularly in Africa. This is all the more true since in July, in this very Hall, Member States were able, at the First Biennial Meeting of States to Consider the Implementation of the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, were able to gauge the devastating effects of light weapons, whose major victims, unfortunately, continue to be women and children. My delegation reiterates the appeal by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) for adequate financial assistance to effectively implement the moratorium on small arms and light weapons. It also calls for effective implementation of Security Council resolution 1467 (2003), adopted at the end of the workshop organized by my country when it held the presidency of the Council in March 2003, on the theme “Proliferation of small arms and light weapons and mercenary activities: threats to peace and security in West Africa.” Mindful of their primary responsibilities for the recovery of the continent, African leaders are continuing their efforts in implementing the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) effectively. The commitments undertaken at the second summit of African Union heads of State at Maputo are part of this process. Guinea welcomes the support of the international community, particularly the G-8 countries for the African Union and its programme, NEPAD. We also welcome the initiatives taken by development partners to increase public assistance, relieve debt and provide for improved access to markets. Guinea welcomes also the useful arrangements planned by the United States, the European Union and Japan to combat the HIV/AIDS, malaria and 9 tuberculosis pandemics, as well as food insecurity. These efforts, which we encourage, were undoubtedly strengthened by the recent agreement at the World Trade Organization (WTO) enabling the poorest countries to have access to generic drugs and thus to tackle the health tragedy of 6 million deaths annually as a result of those three pandemics alone. My delegation, however, regrets the lack of consensus at Cancún at the Fifth Ministerial Conference of the WTO. We remain convinced that the international community will continue the debate, aiming at further integration of the weaker economies into the world trading system. We need to do our utmost to ensure that globalization is better managed and less iniquitous. The common good must be at the heart of our concerns. The path ahead of us is still long and full of pitfalls. The midterm review shows that, at least as far as Africa is concerned, there is not great optimism abut achieving the objectives of the Millennium Declaration. We hope that the spirit of solidarity which is still developing at the level of the international community can be translated into tangible acts and galvanize everyone to action, so that future generations will acknowledge our struggle to ensure the development of humankind. In order to achieve this, we must reaffirm our unity and promote multilaterism to enable our common Organization to tackle the challenges of peace, security and social and economic progress. The latest developments in the international situation have demonstrated the extent to which the United Nations is still the unique framework for consultation and concerted action in the management of world affairs. Strengthening the role and capacities of the United Nations is therefore more than ever essential in order to provide fair, lasting and equitable solutions to issues of major importance. My delegation appreciates the efforts to reform the United Nations and revitalize the work of the General Assembly. In this regard, we support the recommendation of the Secretary-General concerning the setting up of a high-level panel to propose ways to strengthen the United Nations by reforming its institutions. All these steps to help improve the effectiveness of the Organization must of course be underpinned by a genuine reform of the Security Council so as to make its membership more representative. This will make it possible to enhance its transparency and give all States, large and small, the opportunity to find a voice there and thus make their due contribution to the building of a renewed world.  ﻿It is a great pleasure for me to address this important gathering. I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly and to wish you well. As is well-known, Canada has always believed in a multilateral approach to global issues — not for ideological reasons, but because it is a proven way to enhance security and to resolve those over-arching problems that transcend national frameworks. The present era provides us with enormous opportunities for action. We can improve health and extend life expectancy, especially in poor countries; we can safeguard security and the rights of citizens; and we can increase access to education and help people to fulfil their aspirations. The present era also presents us with urgent challenges: protecting the environment; rolling back diseases such as AIDS and malaria; preventing conflict and ending impunity for crimes against humanity; putting a stop to terrorism and organized crime; and controlling weapons of mass destruction. Each Government is responsible for taking action within its own borders. In this global era, however, such issues cannot be successfully addressed by States acting alone. Multilateral cooperation is indispensable to ensure the well-being of citizens and to protect them effectively from harm. We need only consider the fight against terrorism. None of us has ever believed that terrorism could be controlled, let alone stopped, without the cooperation of all of us. The task of drying up the sources of terrorist funding also requires coordination and effective legal regimes. Information- sharing is imperative if attacks are to be prevented. The United Nations has been playing an extremely useful role in this fight. Since the tragic events of 11 September 2001, the Security Council has been undertaking an extensive effort in support of the fight against international terrorism. We could also consider the issue of health. Distance from the source of new viruses no longer provides us with protection. The next virus may be just an aeroplane flight away. Multilateral cooperation is essential for the management of health threats. We risk disaster if we do not share with each other all information that is are available to us and if we do not coordinate efforts to combat epidemics. Coordinated action is also required for development in poor countries and to ensure reasonable access to health care. We need only consider, furthermore, the ongoing problem of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. The proliferation of these weapons of mass destruction among States and terrorist groups represents a growing threat. Such proliferation must be prevented through coordination, the strict application of export controls, rigorous verification, the enforcement of multilateral treaties and other forms of collective action under international law. We all recognize that the United Nations has enabled us to successfully address many international challenges. But we also recognize that we have failed in certain other cases. We have been slow to adapt the United Nations to changing circumstances. The time has come to begin bold renewal at the United Nations. This morning, the Secretary-General set out proposals that are timely, necessary and courageous. I congratulate him on his remarkable statement, and I can reaffirm that Canada subscribes fully to the objectives that he proposes. 22 The United Nations remains the principal instrument for effective multilateral action. I call on my fellow leaders to make meaningful United Nations reform a priority. (spoke in English) We should not be pessimistic about our ability to succeed. Consider some United Nations successes: the 2000 Millennium Summit and, in Monterrey, Mexico, the 2002 International Conference on Financing for Development. We created a shared framework on setting priorities for more effective aid; we set targets and key principles; we spelled out mutual accountabilities for developed and developing countries. That spirit of accountability and shared responsibility also lies at the heart of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development and of the Group of Eight Africa Action Plan. And it has led to policy initiatives with respect to market access and the availability of pharmaceutical drugs to poor countries. For instance, this year Canada eliminated virtually all tariffs and quotas on products from least developed countries. At the same time, the outcome of the World Trade Organization meeting in Cancún is very, very worrisome. Agricultural subsidies of developed countries must be radically reduced to give developing countries — particularly in Africa — the chance to prosper. The developed world has an obligation to act, and to act quickly. Colleagues, on no issue is progress more necessary or more urgent than on the protection of the innocent. Canada, in partnership with others, advocates putting the protection of people at the heart of the mandate of the Organization. Too often, conflicts are allowed to start, even when the whole world can see what the dreadful consequences will be. Too often, innocent civilians are left to their fate. Next year will mark the tenth anniversary of the genocide in Rwanda. In all conscience, we must ask ourselves: are we any more ready now than we were then to respond to another Rwanda? I fear the answer, unfortunately, is no. It was with our collective failures in Bosnia and Rwanda in mind that Canada sponsored the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty. The Commission has done excellent work, and in its report, it argues that sovereignty entails responsibility as well as rights. The most fundamental duty of a State is to protect its people. When a Government cannot or will not do so, the responsibility to protect them becomes temporarily a collective international responsibility. Some question that idea because they fear intervention on slight pretexts or with motives other than human protection. Others, owing to their own tragic experience, fear that there would be too little outside involvement. We need to reconcile those two concerns. We believe — as does the Commission — that, in the face of great loss of life or ethnic cleansing, the international community has a moral responsibility to protect the vulnerable. The primary purpose must be to avert and end human suffering. No entity is more appropriate than the Security Council to authorize military action to protect the innocent. But the member States of the Council have sometimes failed the innocent. Past failures must motivate us to prepare better for future crises. We can reform how this place works, improve its effectiveness, enhance its relevance and inspire its participants. Before closing, I wish to comment on some of the challenges to peace and security that we face. In Afghanistan, much has been achieved and much remains to be done. For our part, Canada has been engaged in the war on terrorism from the outset. We are the largest current military contributor to the International Security Assistance Force. We have pledged 250 million Canadian dollars for humanitarian assistance and reconstruction. We are committed to helping the Afghani people build a democratic, pluralistic society. In Iraq, we have also joined the international effort to help the Iraqi people. We have decided to contribute 300 million Canadian dollars, one of the largest single-country pledges we have ever made. We are encouraged that the members of the Security Council are exploring how to elaborate upon the United Nations role in the reconstruction and in progress towards Iraqi self-government. The situation in the Middle East preoccupies us, as it does the entire international community. Innocent lives on both sides are being lost. Israeli families and Palestinian families fear for their children and for their future. Terrorism and violence — in whatever form, to advance whatever cause — simply creates more violence and takes even more innocent life. 23 For the international community, as for Israelis and Palestinians, despair is not an option. Our goal must remain a political solution based on two viable States, Israel and Palestine, within secure and recognized borders. We need to support Palestinian efforts to develop modern, transparent and responsible government. We need also to support those seeking to promote dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians in the search for practical solutions to the core issues. It is our responsibility to help those who are preparing for peace, which must one day come. When the time is right, the international community must be able to offer a robust international presence that will guarantee the safety and security of Israel and of a Palestinian State, and we should be getting ready to do so now. In addition, we should be looking for lessons on how the international community has acted in other places to stop violence — as, for example, in Cyprus and in Kosovo. Regional tensions, the war on terror and efforts at reconstruction in recent hot spots must, nevertheless, not distract us from continuing to help Africans realize their goals for trade and investment, democracy, human development and good governance. In summary, multilateral cooperation remains indispensable. The United Nations remains at the heart of the multilateral system. New challenges demand new structures, and a historic opportunity has emerged. Let us seize it, and let us realize the powerful idea that created the United Nations — the idea that nations can unite to save their people from the scourge of war. Let future generations say of us that we did not betray that idea — that we realized the potential of this great body, supported it, renewed it and re-energized it to better serve humanity.  ﻿Ms. Lydie Polfer, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Luxembourg, regrets that she is not able to speak to the Assembly today and has asked me to do so in her place. The current President of the European Union, Mr. Silvio Berlusconi, has already presented to the Assembly the priorities and positions of the European Union, which Luxembourg supports with conviction. The United Nations remains in mourning following the cowardly and inhuman attack of 19 August 2003 against United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, which took the lives of 22 persons — most of whom were United Nations personnel — including that of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General. Today our thoughts are with those victims, who, day after day, through their work in the service of the Organization, helped to make the world a better place. As was recently noted by the Secretary-General, that heinous act raises important questions, because it is “a direct challenge to the vision of world solidarity and of collective security rooted in the Charter and articulated in the Millennium Declaration”. (A/58/323, chapter I, para. 2) It is our responsibility, as representatives of the nations of the world, gathered here at the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, to meet this challenge and to try to provide constructive answers that open prospects for the future. A few months ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ms. Lydie Polfer, presented to the Luxembourg Parliament her foreign policy declaration in a context characterized by the deep divisions in the international community that marked the international situation at the beginning of this year. At that time, Ms. Polfer elaborated on these thoughts, which also define the overall approach of the Luxembourg Government to multilateral cooperation. “During the debates on Iraq, all sides extensively debated the role and the credibility of our shared institutions. Have they shown their limits? Have they ceased to function? Are they still adapted to our day and age? Is multilateralism still relevant today? I would like to give a clear answer to this question. Yes, more than ever, we need multilateral bodies that allow us to work together so that international law can be established and respected, with international rules and procedures that ensure respect for human rights and that govern the lives of all States, regardless of their size. This is not just wishful thinking, but something that is in our interest. “We must not only assist in the development of these institutions, but also participate actively in strengthening them through committed and constructive cooperation. The United Nations is, of course, the primary forum for such cooperation to take place”. But while we believe that multilateral cooperation remains the best way of dealing with the many current international issues, we must, however, reflect on ways and means of adapting such cooperation to the evolution of our world, with a view to defining a new multilateralism for the twenty-first century and to rethinking the conditions of a new kind of global governance. In this context, the Millennium Declaration charts a steady course that will enable us to mobilize the international community to take action on a number of specific, quantifiable objectives. Among recent advances, I would like to highlight in particular the achievements registered at the fifty- seventh session of the General Assembly under the leadership of President Kavan; we commend the innovative work he did during his presidency of the General Assembly. We wish also to stress the process of reflection that was inspired by the Brahimi report on peacekeeping operations. Much work remains to be done, however. The two recent reports of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration and on the strengthening of the United Nations provide them with both an analytical 20 framework and an operational plan of action of vital importance. We must provide them with concrete follow-up. The United Nations must remain the premier institution for meeting the challenges facing humankind and for finding shared solutions. To quote the expressive words of Kofi Annan, “The challenge ahead is to strengthen our capacity for collective action and thus forge a common destiny in a time of accelerating global change”. (A/57/387, chapter I, para. 2) We must reaffirm the status of international law while developing it to take account of new situations and contexts. We are doing this successfully in the fields of the protection of human rights, the fight against terrorism, the environment, and in other fields. The inception of the International Criminal Court (ICC) is a major stage, which we welcome. We hope that it will soon begin work on the full range of its activities, in accordance with the terms of its Statute. We appeal to all Members of our Organization to accede to the Rome Statute in order to give the ICC the universality that will enable it to fight impunity for the gravest of crimes. We must continue, with determination and courage, efforts to reform and revitalize our institutions. Much has already been done, thanks in particular to the efforts of our Secretary- General regarding the Secretariat, whose structures have been modernized and whose procedures have been rationalized, though work must continue, particularly in the financial, budgetary and management areas. Last week, the Secretary-General rightly drew our attention to the vital renewal of the intergovernmental bodies of our Organization — be it the Security Council, the General Assembly or the Economic and Social Council. With respect to the General Assembly in particular, our President — whom I wish warmly to congratulate on his election to his important post — undertook a certain number of initiatives aimed at revitalizing our annual session, in order to give it once again the central place it should occupy as the primary venue for meetings, debates and stock-taking. I wish to assure the President that Luxembourg — which holds a vice-presidency of the General Assembly — will fully support his endeavours. The ability to work with updated methods on a streamlined agenda that focuses on the real needs of our day seems to us to be a prerequisite for the increased presence and greater relevance of the General Assembly in international debates. Important progress has already been made in the areas of peacekeeping and peace-building. The presentation in 2000 of the Brahimi report launched an intensive process of reflection and debate, and led to a number of crucial decisions aimed at more effective management of peacekeeping operations. The adoption of Security Council resolution 1327 (2000) and the Assembly’s adoption on 3 July 2003 of resolution 57/337, “Prevention of armed conflict”, constituted particularly significant events, which we welcome, just as we support their practical implementation. While the debate has developed considerably, politically and conceptually, we must emphasize the admirable work carried out by the United Nations in the field, in often difficult conditions. It should be recalled that today our Organization is managing 15 peacekeeping operations throughout the world, mobilizing approximately 40,000 Blue Helmets and civilian staff. We can rightly be proud of this, without being complacent. The missions in Timor-Leste, Kosovo and Sierra Leone have shown the decisive impact that the United Nations can have when it has a clear mandate and adequate resources. Here again, much remains to be done. The difficult situations that persist in countries such as Afghanistan, Côte d’Ivoire and Liberia and in the Great Lakes region, not to mention the “forgotten conflicts”, continue to demand greater attention by the international community. By contributing to the shared effort, particularly in Kosovo and Afghanistan, Luxembourg has shown its readiness to assume its share of responsibility in this regard. Special attention should be given in the future to the problem of the transition from intervention in emergencies and crisis situations to the handling of post-conflict contexts. Integrating all dimensions, particularly the political, humanitarian, security and economic, in a single approach, perfecting the instruments and methodologies adapted to this type of challenge, seems to us to be an urgent and necessary task. The Government of Luxembourg is convinced that the noble task of preserving peace must be based 21 on a broad and complex concept of security. New threats have been added to the dangers of traditional military confrontation. At the forefront of those threats are terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Two years after the deadly attacks of 11 September, which touched the entire world, we can see that great progress has been made in the fight against terrorism. A firm position of principle and a multidisciplinary approach remain indispensable in order to combat and stop this widespread and destructive phenomenon. Luxembourg will play its full part in this effort, which must be pursued tirelessly, with our Organization playing a major role. The danger of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continues to arouse the legitimate concern of our peoples. World leaders have a responsibility to confront this serious threat to peace and security by establishing and strengthening the necessary international regimes. For its part, the European Union has decided, on the basis of the European Council’s Thessaloniki Declaration, to develop a long-term strategy against proliferation, and has already adopted basic principles and a concrete plan of action to give shape to this strategy. Likewise, international arms limitation and reduction efforts, particularly with regard to small arms, must be continued and broadened. But, given the immediate and tragic urgency of violent conflicts and terrorist attacks, we must not lose sight of a more structural cause of global instability and insecurity: the persistence of poverty and underdevelopment. In a world in which every year almost 15 million children under the age of 5 die of the effects of poverty, we must continue unabated our fight for development. The Millennium Declaration, the conclusions of the Johannesburg Summit and the Monterrey Consensus have shown us the way and the objectives to be achieved in order to establish a real global partnership for development. The dimensions of this basic problem are many and interdependent. I shall cite just three. The first dimension is the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, in which Luxembourg is strongly involved and which was quite rightly the focus of attention at the high-level debate that opened this session of the General Assembly. The second is international trade. The failure of the Fifth World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in Cancún is undeniably a major disappointment. If we want to achieve a balanced and more just trade system, it is imperative that we resume the dialogue on the objectives to be achieved and the way to achieve them. The third dimension is financing for development, which, according to the Secretary-General’s report on the follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit, remains “well below the level needed to meet the Goals” (A/58/323, para. 49), even though we are pleased at a recent rise in the volume of official development assistance. For its part, my country is participating in this global solidarity effort by devoting over 0.8 per cent of its gross national product to official development assistance, with a view to achieving the target of 1 per cent about midway through the decade. While development remains the new name of peace, we must not lose sight of other factors of instability, such as ecological problems, new infectious diseases, transnational crime and corruption, and, lastly, grave and repeated violations of human rights and threats to democracy and good governance. Let us not forget, in that regard, the wise words of Mr. Annan, who has written: “Greater respect for human rights, along with democracy and social justice, will, in the long term, be the most effective prophylactic against terror”. (ibid, para. 76) Given these multiple threats, defining a programme of shared security on a global scale, within multilateral bodies, is a primary objective. The European Union, an international actor deeply involved in a vast process of enlargement and constitutional development, has begun the discussion of a strategic concept of security and defence, which will make a major contribution to the international debate in this regard. For more than a year, international attention has been focused once again on the situation in Iraq. There is no need to go over again before this audience the sequence of events that led last spring to the onset of war in that afflicted part of the world. We all remember the deep divisions that emerged in the international community during that period, threatening to upset the very foundations of our Organization. Regardless of the stand that we may have taken individually regarding 22 these events, we must now look to the future to determine the prospects of a better future for the Iraqi people. That is the objective that should bring us together now. We are convinced that the United Nations must play a central role here, on the basis of a clear and substantial mandate accompanied by adequate resources. While it is primarily up to the Iraqi people to decide their own future, we all agree that sovereignty should be transferred to the Iraqis themselves as soon as possible. In the phase of political, socio-economic and diplomatic transition and reconstruction, there must quickly begin a steady transfer of authority and responsibility to legitimate institutions recognized by the Iraqi people. That process must include the drafting and adoption of a new constitution, and the holding, as soon as the situation allows, of free, democratic elections. Among the essentials for this are the restoration of basic living conditions and security in the daily lives of Iraqis, reconstruction of the basic infrastructure and a rapid relaunching of economic activity. The Security Council and its members bear the primary responsibility, but the emergence of an independent, democratic, prosperous and peaceful Iraq is in the common interest of all Members of our Organization. Together with its European Union partners, the Government of Luxembourg remains confident that through a broad mobilization the international community will be able to make a decisive contribution to this objective. Year after year, the General Assembly must address the situation in the Middle East, particularly the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, because progress towards a just and lasting peace remains difficult. Even faced with a resumption of tension and repeated acts of violence and terrorism, which we emphatically reject, we have a duty and responsibility to persevere in the search for solutions that will enable reconciliation among the States and peoples of the region. The search for peace must be tireless. The European Union remains prepared and determined to play its role, especially through its action in the Quartet. We remain convinced that the course charted by the road map remains the right way to break the current impasse. But all players who are directly involved must display good will and good faith in re-launching the peace process by creating the indispensable conditions of confidence and security. That is the urgent appeal that we make to them, that is the urgent task that we must undertake. In the face of wars and violent conflict, in the face of new threats, in the face of violations of human rights, in the face of poverty and underdevelopment, the law and multilateralism are an often fragile but irreplaceable recourse for nations. While we must try vigorously to remedy the weaknesses and insufficiencies in multilateral cooperation, it remains a source of hope for the men and women of the entire world. This is a hope that we must not betray, this is the primary responsibility that is ours at this fifty- eighth session of the General Assembly.  ﻿A few days ago, the United Nations was again attacked in Baghdad just one month after the United Nations Headquarters was targeted in a devastating terrorist attack. My heartfelt sympathies not only as the Foreign Minister of Austria, but also as a former staff member working here at the Headquarters of the United Nations go to the victims, their loved ones and all colleagues in the United Nations family. Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues died as heroes. As a host country to the United Nations, Austria firmly supports the Secretary-General's call to provide the utmost security for United Nations personnel on missions everywhere in the world. Those United Nations staff members had dedicated their lives to helping the most vulnerable. Today, we are called upon to live up to their cause. This has also been a year of lethal attacks on politicians who courageously stood for a human face for politics. We remember, with sadness, the outstanding leadership qualities and invaluable contributions of Zoran Djindjic and Anna Lindh. We are equally saddened to learn that Ms. Aquila al-Hashimi, member of the Iraqi Governing Council, has succumbed to the wounds she suffered in the recent terrorist attack. What is at stake today is the way in which the United Nations can best shoulder its responsibility for global security and peace and how we as Member States can support the United Nations in this task. Austria, as one of the host countries of the United Nations, feels a sense of responsibility for the future functioning of the Organization. The intense public scrutiny of the Security Council's actions over the past 12 months has opened a window of opportunity for re-launching our efforts to find unity of purpose based on a common security agenda between all nations. In this context, I greatly welcome the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, which makes one thing crystal clear: we face nothing less than the need for a far-reaching overhaul of the United Nations system in order to enhance efficiency and legitimacy. We must respond to this challenge and energetically revive the reform debate. The urgency we are faced with today should render a new attempt more successful. First of all, a priority issue should be the reform of the procedures of the United Nations system. The composition of the Security Council is at odds with the geopolitical reality of the twenty-first century. It does not reflect the growing number of United Nations Members or the necessary regional balance. Decision- making is therefore perceived by many as lacking legitimacy. In my view, this discussion is not only about who should be represented in the Security Council, but and this is at least as important about ensuring that the decision-making is in the interests of world peace and global security. In this context the regional groups have to accept their responsibility by coming forward with solutions. As a member of the European Union, which is about to give itself a constitution for the twenty-first century, it is important to note that we are moving gradually towards a genuine common foreign and security policy. To this end, a security doctrine is being elaborated by High Representative and Secretary General Solana for the European Council. Speaking with one voice also means more common positions in Security Council matters. This logic might one day even lead to the European Union having a seat on the Security Council. Austria sees its national interest best served by the multilateral approach of a strong United Nations system, with the Security Council living up to its responsibility for world peace and with the primacy of international law and the universality of human rights maintained by all. International terrorism is a direct and lethal threat to global and collective security. The terror attacks of 11 September 2001, and those against the United Nations Headquarters in Baghdad, have one thing in common: they were targeted against civilization as a whole. United Nations leadership is needed more than ever to prevent and combat terrorism globally. In the United Nations system-wide division of labour, the Vienna-based Terrorism Prevention Branch of the Office on Drugs and Crime contributes to counter- terrorism efforts and offers valuable technical assistance to States with regard to signing, ratifying and implementing international conventions and protocols related to terrorism. 36 Another hard threat to international security is the proliferation of arms, in particular the spread of weapons of mass destruction. What is needed is obvious: the strengthening and universalization of existing disarmament, non-proliferation and export control regimes. As a practical contribution to this cause, Austria has agreed to serve as an immediate central contact for the 109 subscriber States of the Hague Code of Conduct Against Ballistic Missile Proliferation. Furthermore, the Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty, which I had the honour to open on 3 September, appealed, in its Final Declaration, to all States to sign and ratify that Treaty, in particular to those 12 countries whose ratification is required for the Treaty's entry into force. Let me repeat and support that appeal. In the field of non-proliferation, the work of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) under the leadership of Director General Mohamed ElBaradei is essential. Last week's General Conference of IAEA unanimously endorsed the necessity of strengthening the international nuclear safeguards system. Recent issues of compliance concerning Iran and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea have again shown the central role of IAEA. One of the most important immediate tasks is the stabilization and reconstruction of Iraq. We are convinced that success in the aim of restoring the sovereignty of Iraq as quickly as possible will hardly be feasible without the United Nations playing its part on the basis of a sound, viable and coherent policy. In line with the human security approach, Austria was among the first to offer humanitarian aid. In Austrian hospitals we provided urgent medical assistance for children in critical condition. Furthermore, Austria participates in the Adopt a Hospital' programme and is about to equip two hospitals in Nazariyah. Together with Slovenia and Jordan, we are preparing the establishment, south of Baghdad, of a centre for war-traumatized children. These are efforts aimed at providing relief for the weakest and most vulnerable members of Iraqi society. In spite of renewed efforts by the international community to revive the Middle East peace process, the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians has again tragically deteriorated. But current setbacks must not stall the implementation of the road map. Austria continues to strongly support the role and the responsibility of the Quartet. The concept of two States remains the only viable solution. The promise of land for peace must be reactivated to create a basis of trust and respect on which to build. Terrorism destroys such hope. I turn now to what the Secretary-General called soft threats. Here, his report coincides with the goals of my recently concluded presidency of the Human Security Network to strengthen the universal system by forging interregional consensus on issues pertaining to human security. That places the individual human being and his or her protection at the centre of our policies. As a concrete result of my presidency, the ministers of the Network adopted a manual on human rights education. That unique training tool, based on the universality of human rights, is designed for global use and adaptable to target groups. The Network also adopted a strategy for supporting children affected by armed conflict, along with a training curriculum for child rights experts and a compendium of the relevant international child protection standards an effort in which we cooperated closely with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Olara Otunnu. The Millennium Development Goals have become fundamental benchmarks in our efforts to achieve more inclusive and equitable globalization, and we both developing and developed countries need to strive for their implementation at the global, regional and national levels. In that context, as part of the partnership effort agreed to in Monterrey, I am happy to announce that Austrian official development assistance will be increased by 35 per cent in 2004. The Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development recognized the importance of energy for the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. Austria welcomes the additional impetus created by the Renewables 2004 Conference. I am also glad that the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership will establish its secretariat in Vienna. Meanwhile, Austria will use the synergies created by these activities to continue its endeavours to build up the capacity of the Global Forum on Sustainable Energy, which I launched in 1999. At this point, let me express Austria's disappointment that the Ministerial Meeting in Cancun could not sustain the momentum towards achieving acceptable solutions for fair trade. Such a setback must 37 not repeat itself, not least because trade is an engine for development. I support the notion that we also need to begin a reform of the decision-making process within the World Trade Organization. We must avoid a tendency towards ending multilateralism and towards relying exclusively on bilateralism or regionalism in trade. This year, we commemorate the tenth anniversary of the 1993 Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, which confirmed the universality, indivisibility and interrelatedness of human rights as well as the important nexus among human rights, democracy and development. Human rights disasters that we have witnessed since such as those in Rwanda and Srebrenica must not be allowed to recur. One essential step in that regard is the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which I signed this morning. Human rights must protect in particular the weak, women and children. As a woman and as Foreign Minister of my country, I have always spoken out in favour of the rights of women and against the frequently terrible infringements of those rights, such as genital mutilation, the stoning of women and the enslaving and trading of women and girls on the sex markets. Those horrendous practices must stop. And there is reason for hope: today is a good day for women's rights. News has reached us that Ms. Armina Lawal was acquitted by the Nigerian court. I am very happy about that outcome. Let us remind ourselves that the all-important fight against terrorism must not entail a lessening of hard-fought-for human rights standards. Over the years and under the guidance of the Secretary-General, Austria has placed great importance on a comprehensive dialogue of cultures and civilizations. This November, I will host a second media seminar on the topic of Cultural diversity: the quest for common moral ground and the public role of the media', exploring how the free media can contribute to cultural understanding and respect. A seminal event in the context of that dialogue was the first-ever conference of European Islamic leaders in Austria, held in June of this year, which adopted a strongly worded declaration in support of tolerance. How can we contribute to stability in the regions of the world? Europe has its own experience with creating a zone of stability and welfare. The signing of the European Union (EU) accession treaty with 10 new prospective members in April of this year is an important contribution to security on our continent. The strategy of EU is also geared towards exporting that peace dividend to new neighbours of the enlarged EU further to the east and to the south-east and in the Mediterranean region. Let me highlight one encouraging event from that region, which I was able to witness from a close vantage point when I visited Belgrade less than two weeks ago. I am talking about the important gesture of President Marović of Serbia and Montenegro and of President Mesić of Croatia, apologizing on behalf of those of their countries' citizens, who had committed acts of violence against one another in recent history. The vision of global solidarity, collective security and a global culture of human rights are rooted in the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I am grateful to the Secretary-General for his courage and leadership to engage us in an honest, future- oriented debate. The time to act is now. I can again assure the Secretary-General that Austria supports him in that important endeavour.  ﻿Allow me, first of all, to express once again to the Secretary-General and to all United Nations personnel the condolences of my Government and the people of Botswana for the terrorist attack on United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on 19 August. We are outraged that an attack of that magnitude was carried out against international civil servants, whose sole mission in that country is to help Iraqis rebuild their country. The death of Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello and a number of his staff is indeed a loss to the United Nations family that we shall all feel for a long time to come. May I now pay my respects to you, Mr. President, and congratulate you on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I pledge to you the full support of my delegation. Let me also pay tribute to our illustrious Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dynamic leadership of the Organization, in particular for his unshakeable commitment to the reform of the United Nations. I assure him of the unwavering support of Botswana in the discharge of his onerous responsibilities. The fifty-eighth session is beginning at a time when we are faced with formidable challenges to the cohesion of the international community and to the role of the United Nations in maintaining international peace and security. We have just witnessed the war in Iraq, which caused deep divisions and recrimination among the Member States of the United Nations. It is important that the Member States set aside their differences and promote the Organization as a force that can rally nations, both big and small, around common causes. For the United Nations to succeed in its mission, it is important that all Member States respect the Charter. Although now fewer in number, conflicts continue to bedevil the African continent. Fighting is still going on in many parts of Liberia, although there is a semblance of peace in the capital, Monrovia. It is a welcome development that the Security Council has decided to send a peacekeeping mission to that war- torn country. The peace process in CÙte d'Ivoire, though holding, is still fragile. Only recently, a military coup took place in Guinea-Bissau. Botswana strongly condemns the coup, which further tarnishes the image of Africa. We welcome the news that, through the mediation of the Economic Community of West African States(ECOWAS) and the African Union, the military in Guinea-Bissau has agreed to hand over power to a civilian interim administration until elections are held, in two years' time. Those conflicts continue to drain Africa's energies and to undermine the continent's capacity to focus on the equally challenging tasks of development and poverty eradication. The vicious cycle of war, poverty, hunger and disease has left African people in despair. They wonder whether in this new millennium the dawn of peace and tranquillity that they so aspire to will ever come. The inability of the international community thus far to act resolutely to address those conflicts will no doubt make it more difficult for the continent to implement its major programmes, such as the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). The conflict in the Middle East continues to be a matter of grave concern. All initiatives towards a peaceful settlement, including the road map promoted by the Quartet, have so far failed. The decision by Israel and others to insist on determining who in the leadership of the Palestinians they will do business with is an unacceptable precondition for genuine negotiations. Worse still, the threat to expel the democratically elected leader of the Palestinians, Mr. Arafat, is a recipe for further strife that could result in more loss of life on both sides. That development should be condemned by all who want to see peace in that land. In Iraq, despite formal pronouncements that hostilities have ended, the country is still not at peace. Instead we see an escalation of violence, with many people, including coalition troops, being killed every day. The situation clearly calls for an intervention by the Security Council to ensure that the Iraqi people are 29 given the mandate to govern themselves and that the United Nations is given a bigger role to play in the reconstruction of the country. Botswana firmly believes that the various challenges that the international community faces today can best be tackled under a multilateral framework. The United Nations remains the foremost body for promoting the Agenda for Peace. Small States such as my own place great hope in multilateral partnership and cooperation, for on their own or in their small regional groupings the challenges they face are formidable. We therefore call upon Member States to rededicate themselves to the noble ideals of the Organization. As we direct our energies towards peace and security, we must also remain focused on the twin challenges of development and poverty eradication. Those are global challenges requiring global solutions and the active participation of all nations. Our performance in efforts to eradicate poverty cannot be considered successful by any measure. Poverty still remains a blemish on humankind's attempts at socio-economic upliftment. The policies, strategies and programmes to address the situation have not had the desired effect. It is estimated that about 1.2 billion people around the world still live in poverty, and a large proportion of them live in Africa. It is unacceptable that in this day and age, when billions of dollars are spent on armaments, space technology and other advances in human endeavour, such a large number of people are still poor and marginalized. We should bear in mind that there is a clearly established link between poverty, on the one hand, and the political instability and insecurity that the world is witnessing today, on the other. Poverty breeds resentment, anger and despair. People condemned to the margins of society feel that they have nothing to gain by participating in the democratic process of governance. Instead they believe that they have nothing to lose by using violent means in expressing their grievances, for in their perception, the international community is indifferent to their suffering. Three years after the Millennium Declaration was adopted by our heads of State, the General Assembly should take full stock of the progress achieved towards the fulfilment of the commitments contained in it. Botswana welcomes the report of the Secretary- General on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. It is the intention of my delegation to participate actively in the debate on this matter. We need to measure in concrete terms whether there has been an increase in the flow of official development assistance. We need to measure whether we have been able to mobilize enough domestic and international resources for development, including foreign direct investment and private capital flows. We need to measure whether we have resolved the external debt crisis. We need to measure how far we have gone towards establishing fair and equitable international monetary and trading systems. Above all, we need to measure how much we have achieved in the global fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic. In that context, it is regrettable that the recent talks in Cancun on trade, a key factor in poverty reduction and development, collapsed. Earlier, I referred to the need for the international community to address the problem of poverty with all the resources at its disposal; for the failure to do so will only increase the level of frustration and anger and feelings of powerlessness among the poor, which will in turn will provide fertile ground for radicalism and extremism. Botswana strongly condemns international terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Terrorism, like poverty, is now the biggest threat to civilized norms of international discourse. The recent senseless and deliberate attack on the United Nations office in Baghdad is a stark reminder that even the United Nations servants of peace and humankind are not immune from acts of terror. We must support the appeal by the Secretary-General for the adoption of urgent measures to provide protection and security to United Nations staff wherever they serve. We believe that the United Nations must be empowered to play a pivotal role in mobilizing international consensus around measures to curb the scourge of terrorism. In that respect, Botswana remains ready to cooperate in any way possible with the relevant United Nations agencies. My delegation was most pleased that a high-level meeting of the General Assembly was convened on 22 September this year to focus on sharing best practices and the lessons learned in the fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic. As one of the countries most affected by that scourge, my Government accords the highest priority to tackling HIV/AIDS. My delegation fully supports the conclusions reached by the high- 30 level interactive panel on the critical issues that must now be addressed, namely, political leadership; stigma and discrimination against people living with HIV/ AIDS; the importance of broad-based partnerships; and resource mobilization on a very large scale. We call upon our development partners, both in Government and in the private sector, to dig deeper into their pockets to support the efforts of developing countries struggling so hard to meet their obligations to control that scourge. Turning to the Secretary-General's reform proposals, while progress has been made in respect of the rationalization of the functions of the Secretariat, especially in the economic and social fields, formidable hurdles still remain in connection with the reform of the Security Council. The Open-ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council has, in our view, done all that is humanly possible to solicit a wide range of views and to try to bridge the differences that have emerged. But, regrettably, little progress has been made. It is clear to us that this matter, which is of vital importance to the whole Organization, will only move forward if there is political will on the part of some key Member States. This issue cannot continue to defy our collective wisdom after 10 years of deliberation. A compromise solution must emerge soon or history will judge us harshly. We welcome what now seems to be an emerging consensus towards the revitalization of the General Assembly. The speeches delivered in the Assembly have been correctly observed by the Secretary-General in his report as being repetitive and sterile. The agenda tends to be too long, and often results in a duplication of issues. We share the proposal to keep the agenda short and focused, with a number of issues clustered. Long speeches should be replaced by more focused debates and interactive dialogue. We strongly believe that those modest reforms would make the deliberations of the General Assembly more interesting to our stakeholders. They would also enable issues of vital importance to be fully debated, and thus make it easier to implement the decisions reached. In conclusion, I wish to reiterate Botswana's commitment to the United Nations and its agenda. To us the United Nations is the embodiment of our collective will to accomplish the Millennium Development Goals.﻿Let me at the very outset offer my warm congratulations to Mr. Hunte on his election to preside over this fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. With his proven skills in the field of international affairs and his wide-ranging experience, we are confident that we will deal effectively with the many crucial tasks facing this Assembly. I assure him of the full support and best wishes of my delegation as he carries out the tasks of his high office. Let me also extend our appreciation to the outgoing President, Mr. Jan Kavan, whose committed efforts guided the fifty-seventh session of this Assembly. I wish to express my delegation’s appreciation for the indefatigable efforts of the Secretary-General to preserve and enhance the role of our Organization last year, which proved to be one of the most difficult in its existence. One sad sign of this was the bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad last month, which took the lives of Sergio Vieira de Mello and 21 other persons of different nationalities. It was a monstrous act that deserved strong and universal condemnation. Nothing could justify such a senseless attack against the civil personnel of a mission whose aims were none other than to help the Iraqi people to face the tragic situation in which they are living. We thus pay our respectful homage to the memory of those dedicated persons who lost their lives in the tragedy. My country fully cooperates with the United Nations bodies in the struggle against terrorism and organized crime. However, the fight against terrorism should not lead the international community to downplay the importance of promoting development and fighting poverty and everything associated with it, including hunger, illness, illiteracy and environmental degradation. Nor should the international community forget the need to guarantee the respect of the rights of peoples and individuals, combat discrimination and all its aspects that deprive human beings of their dignity. Very relevant proposals concerning the future of our Organization have been presented by the Secretary- General. He stressed the need to accelerate the reform of the United Nations by adapting it to the realities of the world in which we live, namely addressing the question of enlarging the Security Council and increasing the number of its permanent members, strengthening the General Assembly and reinvigorating the role of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), as well as of the United Nations as a whole, including its relationship with the Bretton Woods institutions. By their size, economic power, regional and international influence, there are obvious candidates to become permanent members of the Security Council. Their weight in international affairs can no longer be overlooked. We should not lose sight of the fact that their contributions to peace, security and development can bring more legitimacy to the body. The time is ripe to welcome those countries in an enlarged and more representative Security Council, in which Africa should have at least two permanent seats. Being a member of the Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries (CPLP), Brazil should, in our view, take a permanent seat in the Council. The issues relating to the reform of the United Nations have been the subject of a longstanding debate that points to an overwhelming consensus among Member States. My delegation supports the proposals made by the Secretary-General and hopes that the momentum provided by acknowledgement of the challenges, threats and dangers faced by the world will be seized by this Assembly and instil its members with the sense of urgency to come up with appropriate binding and pragmatic decisions relating to these issues. 18 As the President of the Assembly rightly pointed out in his inaugural speech, “Many developing countries do not have a wide range of development choices available to them and in fact face serious challenges due to their special circumstances.” Among these developing countries the international community recognized small island developing states as a special case of development and environment. It will be during the mandate of the current President of the General Assembly that, by happy coincidence, an international meeting will be held in Mauritius to assess the state of implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. Earlier this month, Cape Verde hosted the second regional preparatory meeting in anticipation of the Mauritius event. In this context, I would like to underline the meaning of my country’s commitment to the process of global support to the sustainable development of small island developing states, a process to which my Government is fully dedicated. The SIDS denomination has now been in existence for nearly a decade. The work accomplished by the United Nations toward a greater international awareness of the problems of small island developing states has been generally successful. I take this opportunity to express my Government’s gratitude to the entire United Nations system for the central role it has played in cultivating and maintaining the high degree of international awareness that is essential to our countries. However, the recognition of a special category of countries cannot be justified for the purposes of classification alone. One would expect that the special designation would lead to some minimal amount of special treatment of the countries concerned, commensurate with their specific disadvantages and handicaps. Regrettably that is not the case with the small island developing states. In fact, island-specific special treatment is almost non-existent, even though many SIDS are in dire need of greater differentiation in the current pattern of international cooperation. I therefore wish to convey my Government’s hope that the Barbados Programme of Action +10 process, culminating in the Mauritius international meeting, will constitute a landmark in the history of the differentiated treatment of developing countries, particularly small island developing States. The need for special consideration that is most commonly shared by small island developing states is the need to see market-access preferences preserved, not eroded. Such a need is not a luxury, but a prerequisite for many SIDS in their efforts to maintain competitiveness and economic viability in response to the structural disadvantages resulting from their remoteness and small size. While several SIDS do enjoy a fair amount of special treatment, such as the treatment derived from least developed country (LDC), African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP) or African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) status, there are still areas of international cooperation in which the absence of reference to island status is difficult to understand. One of these areas — of direct relevance to the question of trade preferences — is the ongoing debate in the World Trade Organization concerning the Work Programme on Small Economies, a debate in which small island developing states, regrettably, have not been able to advocate their case under the SIDS designation. Cape Verde has again been deemed to qualify for graduation from least developed country (LDC) status under the criteria and graduation rules used by the Committee for Development Policy and the Economic and Social Council. As stressed by my delegation in the substantive session of the Council in July, we feel that a decision to graduate Cape Verde from least developed country status at this juncture would give the international community a gravely incorrect impression of our structural progress and prosperity, whereas Cape Verde remains one of the most economically vulnerable and aid-dependent countries in the world. Here we are faced with a peculiar paradox: in the context of its support to small island developing states the United Nations system recognizes the permanent handicaps of a country, but, at the same time, it is considering withdrawing the special treatment this country has been eligible for, without leaving any alternative treatment available. In this context, and in the light of the international recognition of the special handicaps of small island developing states, my Government urges the General Assembly to request the relevant bodies of the United Nations system to re-examine with care the rule whereby a least developed country would be seen as qualifying for graduation. We believe that such re- 19 examination ought to result in a methodological reform that will do justice to the least developed small island developing States. Africa has made a remarkable effort to respond positively to the call of the international community and its own peoples to foster development, promote democracy, transparency, good governance, the rule of law and accountability. In the wake of this call African leaders agreed to establish the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), in whose success we are all engaged in order to lead our continent out of poverty and conflict, ushering in a new era of prosperity and peace. Its adoption not only by the African Governments and civil societies but also by the international community as a framework for African development will help establish common goals and clear commitments that will lead our continent on a promising new journey. We believe that the NEPAD project should pay special attention to the situation of the island States. Noticeable progress has been achieved, both in the manner of installing democratic Governments throughout the continent and in putting an end to conflicts. In this particular case, we are heartened by the recent accord between the Sudanese Government and the Sudan People’s Liberation Army. This constitutes a very significant step towards putting an end to the suffering of the Sudanese people. If, as we all anxiously hope, this agreement brings peace to that great African nation, it will add to the successes already registered in Mozambique, Angola and Sierra Leone, along with the ongoing processes in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Great Lakes and Liberia. We must be cautious, however. Conflicts result from unsettled social and political issues. If these are not adequately tackled, the risk of new conflicts will persist. It is important to recall that democracy and the rule of law can develop unhindered only when and if the minimum conditions for survival are assured for the populations and when the rights of individuals and groups, including minorities, are respected. The events in Guinea-Bissau two weeks ago illustrate the fragility of the institutions in a country that cannot address the basic problems of its population. While it may be true that political leaders must be held accountable for not ensuring good governance, in an environment of poverty, lack of resources and indebtedness good governance is easily set aside. These events point to the need for a stronger commitment of the international community to helping countries in distress face the tasks of fighting poverty, consolidating democratic institutions and promoting economic and social development not only with promises and advice, but also with concrete means. Notwithstanding the serious threats that hover over mankind, a safer, more just and more peaceful world is now within reach of our living generations. Never before has mankind had such an array of means to face the great challenges that continue to defy humankind, such as hunger, poverty, illiteracy and curable diseases. Hunger is a case in point. Several experiences in different regions of the world prove that hunger can be eliminated if there is determination and available resources. It is therefore unacceptable that, in a world awash with food, one in three sub-Saharan Africans should continue to suffer from chronic hunger. Last July, at the second ordinary session of the Assembly of the African Union, held in Maputo, Mozambique, heads of State and Government of the African Union adopted a Declaration on Agriculture and Food Security in Africa. In this Declaration, African leaders once again demonstrated their firm commitment to combating hunger on the African continent. At the national level, fighting hunger was set as one of the main priorities of the first Government of Cape Verde immediately after independence and continues to have a prominent place in Government policies in the framework of poverty reduction strategies. That is why we support the plea made by the President of Brazil to establish a world committee to fight hunger. Three years ago, world leaders endowed themselves with the important political tool that is the Millennium Declaration. There is no excuse for the fact that the promised resources and the proclaimed will have not been put to work to achieve and even surpass the arduously negotiated but unanimously agreed Goals adopted in this very Hall. Despite the difficulties and uncertainties looming over the Organization, the eyes of the world are focused on the United Nations because all believe that our Organization can and should be the vehicle for achieving those Goals. Let us work together to make it happen. 20  ﻿Allow me to start by congratulating you warmly, Mr. President, on your election to the high post of President of this respected global forum and to wish you success during your tenure. Your election to the post of President of the General Assembly is indeed an honour and a source of pride for all Saint Lucians, as well as for your brothers and sisters in the Organization of East Caribbean States (OECS), the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and Latin America. Your presidency is, as such, a CARICOM-Latin American presidency, and your record of prudence and diplomatic skills will certainly be instrumental in meeting the lofty goals sought commonly by all of our nations and peoples. I take this opportunity to congratulate your predecessor, His Excellency Jan Kavan, for the leadership he provided to the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly, a session that brought out clearly the many challenges confronting the United Nations in this decade. The delegation of the Commonwealth of Dominica assures you of its full cooperation and support. Profound appreciation is also due to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts to make the United Nations more responsive and effective. 13 Over the last nine months, the relevance of the United Nations has become a burning issue worldwide. We must all appreciate that it remains the only universal multilateral institution with the capacity to address the complex set of global problems of the twenty-first century, ranging from peace and security to development. Today's world is entangled in a web of complex problems that threaten global security. These problems, which require the urgent attention of the United Nations, include HIV/AIDS and other diseases, poverty, the marginalization of indigenous people, terrorism and global crime, the growing scarcity of freshwater, global warming, the spread of light arms, which threaten peaceful countries like Dominica, nuclear proliferation, armed civil conflicts and the refugees they give rise to, trafficking in humans and unfair trade rules that contribute to growing poverty in the developing countries. All of these problems require a strong and effective multilateral organization, which enjoys the trust and confidence of the people on this planet and is capable of articulating collective approaches towards some solutions. The world has changed considerably, yet present institutions for global governance the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization continue to operate on outdated political and economic foundations. The legitimacy, effectiveness and credibility of the United Nations continue to erode in the face of the democratic deficit', which was an integral part of the original design but which needs to be remedied now. The reform of the Security Council and the General Assembly is indispensable to the restoration of the moral authority lost because of failure to enforce resolutions. Effective governance, predicated on the principles of accountability and transparency to the people of the Member States, is a highly desirable objective that we must strive for. I wish to reaffirm our country's total commitment to, and support for, the United Nations. Let me take this opportunity to pay tribute to Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General, other staff members of the United Nations and the citizens of Iraq who lost their lives or sustained injuries in the tragedy of Baghdad last August. We share the sorrow of the Secretary-General and his staff, and extend our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. The return of peace and stability to Iraq has now become the responsibility of all States members of the international community. If the international community must accept and shoulder this important responsibility, then we must commit to a greater role for the United Nations. We strongly hold the view that stability in Iraq is inextricably linked to the transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqis, who must have sole responsibility for their future. The coalition forces must give a clear mandate to the United Nations for the creation of a multinational force, led of course by the main troop contributors, in order to ensure the security of Iraq. While the attention of the international community is focused on restoring peace and security in Iraq, we cannot turn a blind eye to the breakdown in the Middle East peace process. My delegation supports the road map for peace in the Middle East and calls for the removal of the obstacles that have stalled the process. We embrace the two-State solution as the only mechanism for a lasting peace in the Middle East. The State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority must both commit to a ceasefire and return to the agreed obligations under the road map framework. The fight against international terrorism remains a priority for Dominica given the horror of 11 September. In that regard, we have taken many steps to comply with the obligations of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). This year our Parliament enacted the Suppression of Financing of Terrorism Act, which complements two earlier pieces of legislation related to the prevention of terrorism, the Money Laundering Act and the Exchange of Information Act. The passage of these pieces of legislation has contributed to significant strengthening of the regulatory regime for banks operating in our offshore financial sector and to efforts to combat money-laundering. We welcome the assistance of the Commonwealth in a review of our legal system to allow its alignment with the global strategy to fight terrorism, as well as the guidance of the Counter-Terrorism Committee. The numerous terrorist actions this year in Indonesia, Kenya, Saudi Arabia, Morocco and Iraq underscore the central importance of being vigilant and prepared to manage any crisis from a terrorist attack. We appeal to Member States to continue collaborative 14 efforts in this global fight to combat terrorism and to ensure that the capacities of small States are enhanced through transfer of intelligence information, surveillance technology and training in prevention strategies. The United Nations International Year of Freshwater has helped the world community to focus attention on the millions of poor people who lack access to clean sources of water. Dominica is one of the islands in the Caribbean blessed with abundant freshwater resources, largely thanks to our high rainfall. Our experience with conserving our mountains and forests, which contribute to the maintenance of the water table, is one of the many experiences that our people are prepared to share with the world community. Mankind faces a great challenge as growing scarcity of freshwater becomes a reality of this century. This is clearly an arena for constructive global action by the United Nations. Let us hope that concern for and attention to freshwater remain a core part of our continuing commitment to the Millennium Development Goals. My delegation is indeed pleased at the tremendous progress made by the International Criminal Court over the last year. We have moved one step closer to punishing war crimes, genocide, and crimes against humanity. This year is an important year for the Commonwealth of Dominica because we are celebrating the silver jubilee of our political independence, as well our twenty-fifth anniversary of our membership in the United Nations. Twenty-five years of nation-building has given us some experience in the global arena and allowed us to build a foundation for the next 25 years of national development. As a peace-loving people, we highly value the right to self-determination and the full, fair and unhindered expression of the will of the people. We reaffirm our commitment to the rule of law, good governance at all levels and deepening of our longstanding democratic tradition. Dominica and its sister islands of Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Grenada and Jamaica are island nations adversely affected by the World Trade Organization (WTO) banana regime, which will bring to an end preferences and quotas for bananas exported to the European Union. The impending abolition of the banana quota at the end of 2005 has contributed immensely to an economic crisis in these Caribbean Community States. Thousands of small farmers in these island nations have lost hope and left banana production altogether. This has led to a 60 per cent decline in banana export earnings and has a negative impact on our national savings. In Dominica, this situation has necessitated the implementation of an austerity program, in tandem with a standby agreement with the International Monetary Fund. We are, however, working assiduously to create the conditions for economic revitalization and transformation. As we struggle to eradicate the mono-crop nature of our economy, a remaining vestige of the colonial period, we are determined to anchor our future economic foundation in the following areas: sustainable agriculture, renewable energy, ecotourism, information technology, financial services and water resource management. Our resolve to build a new economic order is based on our assertion of the principle of responsibility for our own development. Our efforts at economic re-engineering urgently require a complement of new foreign direct investment, official development assistance (ODA) transfers, technology transfer and deepening of cooperation with Member States and global civil society. We remain hopeful that our donor partners will soon translate the ODA commitments that they made at Monterrey last year into action, since these commitments have become critical for economic reconstruction throughout the developing world. Our call for special and differential treatment in the trade arena continues to resonate loudly. The outcome of the WTO meeting in Cancun was not encouraging. We join other developing nations in the call for an end or drastic reduction of agricultural subsidies in the developed world. Let me take this opportunity to commend the United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) for organizing the high-level plenary meeting with respect to the implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, which took place on Monday, 22 September. This meeting will only be successful if it renews the resolve of Member States to accord a higher priority to national integrated efforts to fight the disease, which is exacting a toll on the youth and adult populations of African and Caribbean nations. 15 The Commonwealth of Dominica has developed a five-year plan of action to guide our efforts to manage the HIV/AIDS pandemic, and we are increasing our efforts to ensure a coordinated and participatory national response that involves schoolchildren, workers, the private sector and the voluntary sector. I also wish to acknowledge the great initiative of President George W. Bush for the global fight against HIV/AIDS. It is a bold and assertive commitment that will contribute much-needed financial resources for the global campaign, particularly in Africa and the Caribbean. I also want to pay tribute to the tremendous efforts of UNAIDS, the United Nations Development Fund for Women, the United Nations Children's Fund and the World Health Organization/Pan-American Health Organization in HIV/AIDS prevention. The programmes of these United Nations organizations deserve additional resources from Member States, international financial institutions, private foundations and transnational corporations if we are to expect higher levels of effectiveness and greater positive outcomes in HIV/AIDS prevention. In 2004, the Decade of the World's Indigenous People will come to an end. The Decade was important in that it highlighted, for the first time since Columbus came to the Americas, the marginalization of the world's indigenous people. Although the Decade has fallen far short of expectations, it did have one positive outcome, namely, greater awareness on the part of the international community about the continuing plight of the indigenous peoples of the world. Dominica's indigenous people, the Caribs, made some important gains during the decade. These include the building of links with other indigenous groups across continents, the consolidation of a Caribbean grouping of indigenous organizations, and the Government's establishment of a Department of Carib Affairs. Indigenous peoples around the world continue to face marginalization and to wallow in abject poverty. The world community must demonstrate greater responsiveness to improving their condition through more generous contributions to the Voluntary Fund. We welcome the first report of the Secretary- General on the New Partnership for African Development (NEPAD) and we are greatly encouraged by the number of African actions to institutionalize NEPAD along with the incremental steps towards alignment of United Nations activities with the priorities of NEPAD. We commend the African Union and the African nations for all the efforts towards strengthening the organization's momentum. Dominica reiterates its continuing support for the efforts of our brothers and sisters in Africa to take full responsibility for their own development. Next August, the international meeting for the 10- year review of the Barbados Programme of Action regarding the sustainable development of Small Island Developing States will be held in Mauritius. This meeting will address the future of the world's small island developing States and will be a momentous occasion for Dominica and all the members of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) to finally get the much-needed international support to address the range of vulnerabilities we confront. Dominica is honoured to host next week a meeting of sustainable development experts, who will assess the performance of the indicators of the Barbados Programme of Action. The Mauritius Conference is especially important given the marginalization of small island developing States by unfavourable World Trade Organization (WTO) trade rules and the trade liberalization process. The international community must pay greater attention to the social and economic vulnerabilities faced by small island developing States. The sudden adjustment to trade liberalization and the WTO trade regime has contributed to the economic decline in many small island States. Averting the rapid descent into a downward economic spiral and social dislocation in SIDS requires a wider embrace and understanding of our call for special and differential treatment in the trade arena. The Dominican delegation believes that we have an obligation to be responsible to future generations by ensuring that they will have an earth that is safe, secure and can sustain life. Let us not forget the commitments we made last year at the World Summit for Sustainable Development, especially regarding small island developing States. We reiterate our concern once again about all manifestations of climate change, and our opposition to continuing trans-shipment of nuclear waste through the Caribbean Sea. We therefore call on all Member States to support and participate in the Mauritius Conference for the 10- year review of the Barbados Programme of Action next 16 August. We also appeal to corporations, private foundations, bilateral and multilateral organizations to lend support for significant participation of civil society organizations, particularly from the AOSIS member States, at this conference. The delegation of the Commonwealth of Dominica wishes once again to address the participation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the work of the United Nations. Taiwan has demonstrated its willingness to provide much needed assistance to countries around the world, including relief to war-torn and devastated countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan. Article 4 of the United Nations Charter invites all other peace-loving States to join the Organization and compels us to consider the participation of Taiwan's 23 million people. The problem of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) ably demonstrated that progress towards the noble goals of the United Nations is only impeded by not integrating the Republic of China on Taiwan into international efforts to confront global challenges. The situation regarding the Republic of China must be addressed to ensure a more meaningful contribution to global peace, security and poverty eradication. In conclusion, Dominica repeats its call for a new global framework to redress the imbalances brought about by the galloping forces of globalization. We urge the international community to rally behind the banner of multilateralism and to support the bold initiative of General Assembly President Julian Hunte to make development and its attendant components, poverty eradication and the Millennium Development Goals, the central focus of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We call also for the leadership role of the United Nations in the quest for peaceful resolution to the conflicts in Iraq, Liberia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and for the unwavering support of the international community to the special needs of the small island developing States. ﻿I have the honour of addressing the General Assembly on behalf of His Excellency Mr. Eduard Kukan, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Slovak Republic. Slovakia as a European Union acceding country fully endorses the statement made by the Prime Minister of Italy on behalf of the European Union. The positions and ideas expressed in Mr. Berlusconi’s address perfectly reflect the values of the Government and people of Slovakia. I will therefore concentrate only on the topics that we consider the most important. At the outset, I warmly congratulate the President on his assumption of the presidency and wish him every success in discharging his important duties. He can rely on Slovakia’s support and cooperation. Let me also add the voice of my delegation to those who have thanked his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his contribution to the work of this body. Amongst the most challenging issues before us, the one that has drawn the closest attention of the world community is the situation in Iraq. We should join our efforts to help the Iraqi people reconstruct their country and build a democratic society, which is the best course of action for stabilizing the situation, which is still volatile on the ground. The unprecedented tragedy of the destruction of the United Nations Baghdad headquarters, which ripped from our midst many brave United Nations personnel, including Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello, to whom we again pay our undivided tribute, has shown us that no target is safe. Uniting to help Iraq has become a matter of common interest. Security Council resolution 1483 (2003) laid the important framework enabling the international community to contribute to Iraq’s reconstruction. At the time of its adoption, Slovakia decided to participate in stabilization operations in Iraq by sending mine- clearing experts. Although this was only a token contribution, given our capacity and the number of Slovak troops already deployed in active peacekeeping missions around the globe, I believe that it showed our commitment to creating conditions in which the Iraqi people can build their own future. As more troops are needed on the ground, we support the efforts to win greater participation from willing countries. The United Nations, with a specific mandate, must play a greater role in the Iraqi post-war restoration. Iraq must show that a free and democratic country is the inevitable replacement for dictatorship. A democratic and prosperous Iraq is important to peace and security in the Middle East, which directly affects the rest of the world. 26 The difficult economic and social situation in Afghanistan, where people continue to strive to build a democratic and viable society, still leaves room for a resurgence of extremists. The international community cannot move away from Afghanistan. It must stay committed and continue to provide the necessary assistance to the Afghan people. I am pleased to announce that last July the Slovak Parliament decided to extend the participation of Slovakia in Operation Enduring Freedom. Ten years after Israelis and Palestinians astounded the world by signing the Oslo Accords, the two sides are again locked in a cycle of violence, attacks, counter-attacks and revenge. It is unfortunate that the latest wave of violence has come at a time when the road map had started to encourage feelings of hope. Slovakia is deeply concerned over the deteriorating situation. Recent tragic and violent events have caused enormous suffering and resulted in many innocent victims. In the face of the current situation, both sides must act responsibly, with the utmost restraint, and consider carefully the tremendously negative consequences of a complete breakdown of the peace process. The only realistic way out of the impasse is the creation of a viable Palestinian State existing alongside Israel, with the security and survival of each guaranteed. Every effort has to be made to keep the road map on the table, because there is no other alternative. Both sides must fully and without further delay implement their obligations in accordance with the road map. Slovakia reiterates its support for the road map and sees the role of the Quartet in the peace process as irreplaceable and essential. We will not relax our efforts in the fight against global terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Underestimation of this peril could have a fateful impact on the international community. The United Nations must continue to play a decisive role in this fight. The Slovak Republic appreciates and fully supports the activities of the Counter-Terrorism Committee. Slovakia, as a party to all 12 global international conventions against terrorism, has successfully implemented their provisions into its legislation. As a party to various international conventions and treaties, Slovakia supports joint efforts to adopt global international legal instruments and standards concerning the principle of the rule of law. The ratification process of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime is well under way in the Slovak Republic and should be completed by the end of this year. Over the past decade, we have witnessed exponential growth in peacekeeping activities in an increasing number of conflicts throughout the globe. The recent comprehensive reform has significantly improved the effectiveness of planning and management of the ever more complex and challenging United Nations peacekeeping operations. However, the most important factor for the success of United Nations peacekeeping is still the political will of Member States and their readiness to contribute contingents and equipment. In order to support and sustain the increasing number of peacekeeping operations, the timely payment of financial contributions is necessary. Slovakia has been among the leading contributors to United Nations peacekeeping operations since it became a Member of the United Nations in 1993. Our peacekeepers are currently serving in six United Nations missions in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. Given our clear understanding of the new threats to our security and a willingness and ability to help tackle them, our engagement in peace support operations around the world will expand even more when we join the European Union and NATO next year. Slovakia’s active involvement in peacekeeping operations confirms the fact that the maintenance of international peace is among the priorities of our foreign policy. In recent years attacks on humanitarian workers and on United Nations personnel have increased alarmingly. We therefore welcome the unanimous adoption of Security Council resolution 1502 (2003) on the protection of United Nations personnel, associated personnel and humanitarian personnel in conflict zones. It emphasizes the obligation of each Member State to take every step in its power to protect those working under the blue flag and to bring to justice those who attack or harm them. Slovakia has been a party to the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel since 1996, and we invite those States that have not yet done so to become parties to this very important international legal instrument, which provides for the protection of United Nations and associated personnel. 27 One of the most important steps towards achieving international justice and putting an end to impunity for the most serious violations of human rights, war crimes and genocide was the establishment of the International Criminal Court. Slovakia, which is a State party to its Rome Statute, is firmly committed to ensuring that the Court is an independent, fair and effective institution. The election of 18 judges and of the Prosecutor and Deputy Prosecutor was essential for the successful start of its work. We are convinced that their expertise and moral integrity will ensure the highest standards in their performance and will guarantee fair and impartial justice. Slovakia views arms control as a pivotal instrument of security policy. Here I would like to reiterate our continued support for the further strengthening of major international disarmament and non-proliferation instruments such as the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). It would be most appropriate to reinforce this cornerstone of nuclear non-proliferation by speedily bringing into force another significant instrument — the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) — hence my delegation’s repeated call on those that have not yet done so to sign and ratify the CTBT as soon as possible. Slovakia also encourages those countries that have not signed or ratified the Ottawa Convention to do so quickly. The terror that landmines cause, despite their limited military utility, continues to spread, along with the appalling humanitarian consequences of their use in actual conflicts. With its entry into the European Union, Slovakia is taking on moral responsibility for the poorer countries of the world. Just as Slovakia received aid in the past, it is now in duty bound to help reduce social tensions and poverty in other parts of the world. That is our contribution to achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Slovakia is systematically and consistently preparing its compact and efficient development agenda. The Slovak Government has recently adopted a legal framework and strategy for development assistance. An important step in the development of official assistance was the approval of the first annual budget in December 2002. The current modest level of official development assistance reflects the potential of our growing economy, and we are convinced that the effective and efficient use, and sustained growth, of such official development assistance will place Slovakia more firmly within the group of new emerging donors. We endorse the appeals made for the strengthening of the role of the United Nations and for improving the efficiency and working methods of its major organs. First and foremost, a comprehensive reform of the Security Council and a revitalization of the General Assembly is needed. In the past year, the international community has had to deal with events whose significance have put to the test the principles that have governed international relations since the signing of the United Nations Charter. Though it is undisputed that the validity of these principles remains undiminished, we cannot shy away from seeking answers and solutions to the fundamental global challenges that we face today, including extreme poverty, drug smuggling, the spread of deadly diseases and global climate change. Finding appropriate solutions to these and other issues requires multilateral cooperation, with a viable United Nations at its core. We all wish to see a strong and decisive United Nations that is capable of effectively responding to current and future challenges. Slovakia remains committed to multilateralism and to its fundamental institutions.   ﻿Seldom has the world's attention been so focused on the United Nations; seldom has so much been expected of this Organization. The question now being asked throughout the world is: Is the United Nations experiencing the deepest crisis in its history, and does it still play a fundamental role in international relations?' Today, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, the main reason for the existence of our Organization is the same as it was 60 years ago: to maintain world peace, reached at the cost of millions of lives; and to contribute, in an ongoing manner, to the well-being of humankind all over the world. We live in a world where no one can go it alone, without the help of others, however big and powerful they may be. Global solutions require the concerted and united efforts of all countries and of all the inhabitants of our planet. Our Organization is a joint effort by the world community that is persistently searching for solutions to the ever-growing problems of our time. I emphasize the phrase our Organization', for sometimes it seems that we expect the United Nations administration alone to solve our problems. We tend to forget that the 27 United Nations is not some abstract institution with a will of its own one that we depend on but that the United Nations is the will of each and every one of its 191 Member States. We alone are responsible for the will, the decisions, the work and the activities of the United Nations. There is no doubt whatsoever that the United Nations needs to be reformed. In this connection, Croatia welcomes and fully supports the Secretary- General's September report on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. When discussing our Organization's reform, especially reform of the Security Council, but also that of the General Assembly, we must be aware that this is a matter of our own political will and readiness to accept change. Unfortunately, and this should be openly stated, so far there has not been enough political will to move from debates on the subject to actual reform. Croatia is convinced that reform of the Security Council is necessary and should no longer be put off. In fact, we ourselves decided in the Millennium Declaration that we would intensify joint efforts to achieve comprehensive reforms of the Security Council in all its aspects. We have an opportunity to do this at this session of the General Assembly. Croatia has never been a member of the Security Council. However, in the 1990s Croatia acquired considerable experience in the work of that organ and learned about its good points and its shortcomings, its importance and its true scope. Therefore, unless it adapts to the new realities in international relations, the Council will not be able to maintain its credibility and authority in all parts of the world. What is required is adherence to the principle of equitable representation of all United Nations Members in the Security Council. Croatia is prepared further to intensify its activities as an active promoter of regional and world peace. With this in mind, Croatia has presented its candidacy for membership in the Security Council for the 2008-2009 mandate. Croatia's membership in the Security Council would represent a great tribute to my country and a recognition of all that has been achieved in bringing peace to South-eastern Europe, which has found the strength, after many years of war, to embrace the path of good-neighbourly relations. The fight against international terrorism is high on Croatia's list of priorities. Two years after the 11 September terrorist attacks on the United States, we stand firmly by our American allies and all those who refuse to accept terror, fanaticism and killing as a means of resolving problems between peoples and countries. Our collective duty to maintain international peace and security, which stems from the Charter of the United Nations, provides an international framework for a decisive response to terrorism in the twenty-first century. Croatia's forces are participating in bringing peace and stability to Afghanistan. Croatia is aware of the fact that concerted action by all democratic countries is the best response to terrorism. The fight against terrorism requires not only action by the democratic coalition at a global level, but also that of each of its members at the national and regional levels. It is equally important that we intensify our activities to assist countries lagging behind in economic development and other areas. Inequality, injustice and ignorance are fertile breeding grounds for the seeds of terrorism. Croatia is still dealing with the consequences of the war imposed on it and does not have the economic resources to participate as a donor in the action for the reconstruction of Iraq. However, Croatia stands ready to offer its wealth of experience in post-war reconstruction, especially in construction work, as well as the knowledge and operative capacities required for dealing with post-war confidence-building, strengthening the country's stability, normalizing life, and mending the tears left by the war in the fabric of civil society. I am thinking in particular of the knowledge and experience acquired in civil police training and activities. Events in the Middle East confirm that greater courage is required to reach a compromise and ensure coexistence than to wage battles; Croatia knows this all too well. We are also aware of the importance of timely resolutions of the Security Council and General Assembly, which must be fine-tuned to meet the challenges and needs of the peace process, keeping abreast of realities in the field and encouraging a greatly needed agreement. We hope that in its forthcoming work the General Assembly will take this into account when adopting new resolutions on the Middle East. The importance of United Nations peacekeeping operations has been recognized on many occasions. The mandate and character of peacekeeping operations 28 have been significantly transformed, from operations aimed primarily at disengaging warring parties into complex missions for building democratic systems, protecting and promoting human rights, strengthening civil society and establishing the groundwork for the sustainable development of independent States. This complexity, and the frequent overlapping of mandates, requires a high degree of expertise in various areas: from holding democratic elections and developing judicial systems to establishing police and military forces that meet international standards and basic international legal regulations. The United Nations is the only global institution that can respond to the challenges of simultaneously establishing regional stability, introducing post-war reconstruction and building a democratic society. The United Nations has paid a high price in its peace efforts. I would like to take this occasion to once again express Croatia's condolences to the families of the victims of the recent barbaric attacks on United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, and to re-emphasize that such attacks strengthen our belief that the development of collective security systems and global solidarity must continue. Croatia is currently participating in five United Nations peacekeeping missions in Ethiopia and Eritrea, India and Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Timor-Leste and Western Sahara. We are determined to further intensify our participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions, in line with our physical and financial capabilities regarding the composition and number of troops deployed, as well as theatres of operation. Croatia feels that as a country that received United Nations peacekeeping forces at a time when its sovereignty and territorial integrity were attacked, and as a country which hosted one of the United Nations most extensive operations, it now has a moral obligation to contribute this experience to securing peace and prosperity in other parts of the world. I would particularly like to stress the importance of closer cooperation between the Security Council and troop contributing countries. We welcome the positive changes that have so far occurred in this respect. It is also important to ensure the necessary exchange of views between the Security Council and the countries on whose territory the peacekeeping operations are being conducted. This is not only a question of due respect of those countries' sovereignty, but it is also a way of acquiring full insight into its needs and priorities. I also believe that there is the need for the establishment of closer links and better coordination in the work of the United Nations main bodies, especially between the Economic and Social Council and the Security Council. The Economic and Social Council and its commissions possess exceptional knowledge and experience important for the building of post- conflict societies, something we were able to see for ourselves last year when Croatia presided over this body. The establishment of working groups for Guinea- Bissau and for Burundi were steps in the right direction, and we hope that this experience will be used to further the involvement of the Economic and Social Council in processes of maintaining and building peace. The Millennium Declaration, this joint vision of all United Nations members for a more just and better world, is a beacon we must follow. Not only must we follow it, we must ensure that its goals are fully implemented. In this context, Croatia would like to see the Economic and Social Council play a greater role in the general implementation of the Millennium Declaration. Therefore, Croatia supports the idea of a high-level dialogue on the achievement of the Goals set out in the Millennium Declaration taking place at the next General Assembly session. As a member of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, Croatia supports the universal ratification of international instruments in the field of human rights. The Commission should continue unhindered in its activities while carrying out its mandate. In an effort to promote and protect the human rights of all people, Croatia is devoting special attention to the human rights of women, children, refugees and disabled persons, and to the human rights of members of national minorities. Although much has been done in the past period to improve the position of women in society and promote principles of gender equality, the international community still has an obligation to intensify efforts to prevent all forms of violence against women, and must try to include women in decision-making processes, ensuring empowerment of women at all levels. Against this background I am proud to say that Croatia has 29 provided the first woman participant in the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan. Apart from terrorism, one of the biggest security threats in the world is the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is, we believe, particularly important in ensuring that the goal of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament is attained. We are concerned by the fact that although the Treaty was opened for signature and ratification seven years ago, it still has not entered into force. The universal character of this Treaty is of great significance and we call on all States that have not acceded to the Treaty to do so as soon as possible. Croatia welcomes the efforts of the Secretary- General and the United Nations to raise the level of awareness throughout the world of the importance of the rule of law and of acceding to international instruments in this area. As a member State of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, Croatia has actively participated in the pioneering endeavour of setting up a new international order symbolized by the International Criminal Court, which has rightly been termed the embodiment of our collective conscience. Croatia is firmly set on the path of accession to the European Union. Croatia, whose strategic national goal is to join the European Union, remains dedicated to the continual promotion of friendly relations with all its neighbours and to the policy of open borders, allowing the flow of people, goods and services, but also to that of keeping its borders firmly closed to all forms of transnational crime and illegal migration. Croatia will continue to actively participate in regional, European and worldwide initiatives and organizations, respecting all its international obligations. For us, the United Nations remains a central point for resolving problems in international relations and for promoting the interests of mankind. I am certain that this year's General Assembly session will reconfirm the importance of the United Nations and open a new chapter in our organization's activities in building peace and security. ﻿I greet Julian Hunte warmly as President at this session and assure him of Nepal’s full cooperation in his work. His Excellency Jan Kavan, the outgoing President, deserves our appreciation for the job well done. I also pay tribute to the distinguished Secretary-General for providing dynamic leadership to the United Nations. The last 12 months have been a momentous period of convulsive events. It has been a mixed bag. We have made a dent in combating terrorism, but it remains a serious threat to peace. Some countries have limped back to normality, while others have descended into chaos. All sides have accepted the Middle East road map, but a new cycle of violence is undermining it. Iraq continues to be a source of concern to all. The global economic slump has turned the corner, but growth remains anaemic, and the Cancun trade talks have foundered. In these developments, the United Nations has come into a sharp focus that is not always flattering. However, Nepal has an abiding faith in the United Nations and believes in its centrality for all humanity’s quest for shared peace, progress and justice. To small nations like ours, the United Nations is and should be the bulwark of sovereignty and defender of freedom. It has stood up to such challenges in the past, and it must prepare itself to face the future just as boldly through a process of strengthened multilateralism. Today, the world faces a number of threats to its peace, progress and harmony. Terrorism is now by far the most immediate threat that afflicts countries, rich and poor, large and small. After 11 September 2001, the concerted battle we have launched has pushed terror into retreat, but the decisive war against it that we must win has yet to be won. This scourge has not left the United Nations untouched either. For instance, two bombs exploded within the first two months of the United Nations presence in Baghdad at its offices there, killing Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and others, and serving as a grim reminder of the indiscriminate dark threat of terrorism. We condemn the assault on the United Nations and our profound condolences go to the countries that lost their citizens and families who lost their dear ones in those tragic attacks. My own nation is in the throes of terrorism, perpetrated by the self-proclaimed Maoists for the last seven years. Opposed to constitutional monarchy and democratic order, the Maoists have broken the seven-month ceasefire, withdrawn from the talks and unleashed unspeakable violence on the people. They did so even as the Government showed flexibility in accommodating several of their demands and put a comprehensive package of reforms on the table. His Majesty’s Government has the duty to protect the life and liberty of the people and to defend freedom and democracy in the country. We will do so resolutely but also responsibly. While doing so, we have kept the door of dialogue open. On behalf of the Government, I thank our friends for their understanding and assistance in our war against terror and the Secretary-General for his interest and concern. Clearly, Iraq continues to be a serious issue. Now that the war is over, the global community must agree to return sovereignty to the Iraqi people as quickly as possible, to let them govern themselves and to help them rebuild their country. The United Nations should be given an enhanced role in this process. Renewed violence in the Middle East has imperilled the Quartet-endorsed road map, which promises a viable State to the Palestinians and security to the Israelis. Nepal appeals to both sides to exercise maximum restraint and engage in constructive dialogue to attain a comprehensive settlement of the long- festering crisis. It also appeals to Israel to reconsider its decision to remove Palestinian President Arafat. The Security Council must take an early decision to extend security throughout Afghanistan so that rebuilding can go forward in the country. It should also augment efforts to resolve conflicts and bring stability to volatile countries in Africa and elsewhere. Nepal has a deep interest in, and unwavering commitment to, United Nations peacekeeping. Nepalese Blue Helmets have served in various missions in an outstanding manner, and many of them have made the ultimate sacrifice in the service of peace and humanity. The United Nations should continue to 39 help poor troop-contributing countries to bridge their resources gaps, and give them more say in mission planning and deployment of forces. While firefighting in crisis situations is urgent, the international community must look beyond the immediacy of conflicts and attempt to build an edifice of durable peace in the world. Disarmament, development and the rule of law are the pillars of such architecture. There is a moral case for all of us to work together towards such peace and it is also a matter of enlightened self-interest. Disarmament and confidence-building measures are critical to building a culture of peace. Nuclear weapons are the greatest threat to humanity and must be eliminated, with their delivery vehicles, in a time- bound manner. Nuclear-weapon States should steadily reduce their nuclear arsenals; the Conference on Disarmament must draw up a strategy to eradicate these arms. As a nation committed to peace, Nepal welcomes the proposals to establish nuclear-weapon-free zones and to keep outer space free of weapons. We also stress the necessity to reinforce the regimes banning chemical and biological weapons and to strengthen measures to prevent the access of non-State actors to small arms and light weapons. Nepal supports the regional centres for peace and disarmament as significant tools for building confidence among nations. We eagerly look forward to hosting in Kathmandu the Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific. We have asked the Secretariat to revise the draft host country agreements so that they are consistent with diplomatic practices and with the provisions for the other two centres. Poverty is by far the most entrenched threat to peace and human dignity, and development is the most daunting challenge for the world. The global community must act together to lift people in developing countries from the perils of hunger, ignorance, disease and despair. We must create jobs and opportunities to enable people to lead a decent life and to raise their stakes in peace and order. Nepal has accorded the highest priority to poverty alleviation in its current plan, modelled after the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers. Broad-based growth, social sector development, targeted programmes and good governance constitute the strategy of the plan. We have liberalized our economy to foster broader partnership with the private sector, non-governmental organizations and community groups and provide a wider space for foreign investment. Improvements in the agriculture and social sectors as well as in rural infrastructure constitute the core of our quest for poverty reduction and sustainable development. However, Nepal lacks sufficient resources to achieve its development objectives. Our resource constraints have become more acute due to Maoist insurgency and consequent economic disruption. Many other developing countries are in a similar situation. The global community must join forces, in a spirit of partnership, to eradicate absolute poverty and stimulate development in developing nations. Indeed, the Millennium Summit and global conferences on financing, sustainable development, HIV/AIDS and trade have clearly laid down the way forward. We must ensure that these compacts do not fail in the crucible of implementation. As developing countries lead efforts for their progress, development partners must keep their commitments by meeting development assistance targets and providing debt relief to the highly indebted poor countries, including the least developed nations. Increasing development assistance alone, however, will do little to help developing countries unless rich nations dismantle their farm subsidies and pull down their tariff and non-tariff barriers to products from the South. Improved access to world markets is critical for poor nations to attract investment, remove their supply-side constraints and transform their economies. In this context, the Cancun trade talks must be resumed soon and in such a manner that globalization brings benefits to the poor as well. His Majesty’s Government is grateful to the World Trade Organization for deciding to admit Nepal and Cambodia as new members. That is just the first step. Nepal needs, as other least developed countries do, duty-free and quota-free access to, and increased assistance from, rich nations to escape the poverty trap and to integrate itself into the global economy. Landlocked developing countries face geographic handicaps and remoteness from the major corridors of global commerce. We welcome the fact that the Almaty Programme of Action addresses their problem and we 40 thank the transit and development partners for making the ministerial meeting a success. We urge all sides to make concerted efforts to implement the Almaty Programme of Action. Democracy, fairness and the rule of law are the building blocks of secure peace at home and across the world. With this in view, Nepal has embraced pluralistic democracy, constitutional monarchy, and the inviolability of human rights and freedoms as the defining features in our present Constitution. Our pledge to these values and ideals remains as strong as ever. Parliamentary elections postponed due to the Maoist threat will be held as soon as possible, and immediate steps will be taken to restore and reactivate local authorities. The Government is seriously committed to doing this. The Government has accorded high priority to raising the status of women, children and disadvantaged people, as well as to preventing trafficking in women. It has established juvenile courts and strengthened the court system, and has tried to give the human rights protection and anti-corruption agencies the necessary tools and resources to do their job. Nepal firmly believes that the world community should try its level best to promote democracy, justice and fairness in world trade, global governance and international relations. In this spirit, we underscore the imperative need for change in the global trade regime, for reform in the international financial architecture and for help to developing countries to overcome their problems. Speaking of justice, nearly 100,000 Bhutanese refugees living in camps in Nepal have been waiting for over a decade to return home in safety and dignity. We hope Bhutan will show more flexibility in the bilateral negotiations to find an early and just settlement. We call on the world community, including the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), to help create a climate conducive for resolving this distressing humanitarian problem by sustaining its interest and assistance for the maintenance of the refugees at this crucial juncture. No organization can stand the test of time unless it is prepared to carry out bold reforms. Events in the run-up to the Iraq war have shown the frailty of the United Nations and underlined the imperative for immediate and balanced reforms for the Organization to secure more legitimacy, not only in the eyes of the rich but also in the perception of the poor. While we welcome the reforms the General Assembly adopted last year, we support the Secretary- General’s proposal to set up a high-level panel to seek ways to make the United Nations a vibrant, effective and efficient Organization, which can come to grips with emerging challenges. As we see it, it is imperative for the General Assembly to reclaim its primacy at the United Nations and for the Economic and Social Council to make its work more visible and relevant to ordinary people. To achieve these objectives, we must not only rationalize the agendas of those organs but also ensure that they adopt fewer but more relevant resolutions — resolutions that could be implemented to benefit humanity. Reforms are long overdue to make the Security Council more democratic in its work and more representative in its structure. Nepal expresses its deep concern at the lack of tangible progress for over a decade on the issue of Council enlargement and urges all Member States to scale up their efforts to achieve that goal. In our view, the Non-Aligned Movement should play an active role in United Nations reform. It should also work closely with the G-77 to advance their shared agenda in this and other respects. In South Asia, as elsewhere, we view regional cooperation as an instrument of South-South cooperation for collective progress in the region and the world at large. The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) has been inspired by that aspiration. Let us hope our region can put its political differences behind it and steam ahead to find the place South Asia deserves in the community of nations. If our immediate and overriding preoccupation at home is the restoration of peace, our commitment to regional cooperation and a just and secure world constitutes an objective of equal order. The world has witnessed the resilience of the Nepalese people during the difficult periods in our history. We remain equally committed today to overcome the current challenge. I call on friends and well-wishers of Nepal for greater understanding and cooperation to help us help ourselves in our onward journey to peace and progress. ﻿I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election. My Government is deeply gratified by the recognition of your accomplishments, especially given that you are a fellow islander. We are confident you will lead the work of this body with the same high competence as your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic. Before going further I must pause in respectful remembrance of the second anniversary of the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. We honour the memory of all who were lost. I must also express our sincere condolences over the great loss of life recently at the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. I am grateful for the privilege of appearing before this body for the first time, as President of the Federated States of Micronesia. We feel a deep sense of responsibility in joining with nations present here to work toward a better world for all peoples. For the past several years, much of the discussion here and elsewhere has focused on political challenges around the world. After 11 September, it is not at all surprising that these challenges have commanded the lion's share of everyone's attention. We in the Federated States of Micronesia remain committed to the eradication of terrorism in all its forms, and will continue to play the role open to us as the world strives to reach this goal. However, the challenges of the environment and of sustainable development that occupied so much of our attention during the 1990s have not gone away. Despite the immediacy of so many pressing demands today, those remain challenges that the international community cannot afford to put on hold. We cannot put them on hold because they are part and parcel of the worldwide security challenge, especially over the longer term. No part of our world is immune to the wide range of fundamental security threats. War and terrorism are only consequences of their deeper root causes: poverty, human injustice and, more recently, environmental degradation. These are most often discussed in the context of the more populous regions of the world, but I ask the Assembly not to overlook the fact that they also present themselves to the small island developing States. The unique vulnerability of our island States to all those scourges is widely recognized. Even so, global threat assessments most often are not followed up by a realistic allocation of resources to the more remote yet also more vulnerable places, where threats to global security often find their origin or seek refuge. I submit to the Assembly that the region of the Pacific islands has for too long been overlooked in that way. We welcomed the initiative of the international community to address those and related development problems during the World Summit on Sustainable Development. But we returned home, and we still find ourselves struggling just as much as ever with fundamental needs. As memories of Johannesburg are pushed into the background by seemingly more urgent crises, our people are beginning to ask questions about this process. They are asking whether repetitious discussion of traditional development strategies at a lengthening string of summit venues offers the most productive avenue for achieving real development 18 goals. We must consider these things with a broader consciousness. The challenges are enormous, and they are immediate. I say to the Assembly respectfully that business-as-usual multilateralism is not getting the job done. Before proceeding, I should say that today's Micronesians do enjoy a much-improved standard of living in comparison with the conditions that existed when we were introduced to the world economy less than 50 years ago. However, we still have very far to go before we can reach the levels of even the moderately successful developing countries, let alone of the industrialized world. In saying what I do here about my own country's difficulties, I must add that we are by no means alone. Therefore, we stand with developing countries everywhere, and we fully support the positions to be expressed here by His Majesty the King of Morocco on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and by His Excellency the Prime Minister of Mauritius on behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States. We must all do more. For our part, the small island developing States need to ensure that we meet our obligations and fulfil our undertakings to the global community. We are not just supplicants; we have roles to play. My country has made commitments to environmental responsibility in line with our capacity. We have pledged increased accountability and oversight of development assistance. We have resolved to build our capacity to govern more effectively and to increase regional interaction. I believe that all developing countries should explore how we can mobilize our limited resources, individually and collectively, even as we seek assistance. In that regard, I commend to the Assembly's attention the communiquÈ of the Pacific Islands Forum issued this year at Auckland, New Zealand. It is illustrative of the kind of regional collaboration I encourage here. For example, we in the Forum agreed this year to an important and comprehensive statement of principles fundamental to good governmental leadership and recognized by all. I think that it deserves close study by the Assembly. Serious attention was also given by the Forum leaders to the challenges presented by international criminal elements attracted to our region. They are attracted in part by our out-of-sight, out-of-mind' status. It was recognized at the Forum that, given our limitations individually, we can confront those challenges only through regional, collective action. We are also now seeing, more than ever before, entire regions of the world marginalized in the global economy, as witness the sad breakdown of the World Trade Organization (WTO) meetings recently. Some countries have been virtually ignored until social and political conditions have severely deteriorated. We are hearing more frequently the term failed State'. It has no clear definition, but it has been used on occasion to justify outside intervention. That may be necessary under certain circumstances, but it is in the interests of all that such conditions should not develop in the first place. I submit that the causes of any such so-called failure can be traced far beyond the borders of the unfortunate country that is so labelled. The time is ripe for a new way of looking at international peace and security. No longer can economic, social and environmental issues exist in a parallel universe, divorced from geopolitical considerations. The linkages are becoming all too clear, as the alarming findings of this year's United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) report on implementation of the Millennium Development Goals confirm. Despite our best efforts, we still face the full range of threats to our natural environment. Those threats are not diminishing. In fact, on a global scale, progress by the world community has been glacial in the face of ever more pressing demands for action. We may say to ourselves that any disastrous outcomes lie well in the future, but we can act only in the present. We are literally making or failing to make life decisions for the yet-unborn. One of the most clear and present emergencies has figured prominently in our statements in the general debate every year since our country became a United Nations Member; I refer to the need for immediate international action to combat climate change. Regrettably, I cannot speak with any less concern this year. If anything, our appeals must become more urgent. At a time when we speak of many wars, there is also the war against climate change a war that mankind cannot afford to lose. I know you can appreciate better than most, Mr. President, that, for my family and me, the issue of climate change is a present reality. My island, Woleai, 19 in Yap State, is an atoll with no point higher than two meters above sea level. The frequency and the intensity of storms in our region have been increasing for some time. During the last year we experienced three major typhoons, as well as other destructive storms. One of them triggered massive mudslides on the state of Chuuk's higher islands, and 50 people died. In Yap state, a recent storm washed away a large and very old cemetery. These and similar recent events in our other states are unprecedented. Everything we are, and hope to achieve as a people, is under grave threat because of global climate change. Having confirmed that the climate change crisis is real, the entire world also now possesses indisputable evidence that its steady progression can be laid at the doorstep of human activity. Yet some of the worst polluters among the industrialized countries see it as their top priority to protect vested interests. They are purposely delaying the immediate action that is required to begin to turn the tide of destructive climate alteration. In the Framework Convention, it was agreed by all that those bearing the responsibility for causing this problem must take the lead in resolving it. Yet, I must ask today, where is that leadership? It is very sad that the Kyoto Protocol, which is a positive achievement, has been converted by some Governments into a political target a rallying cry for the worst polluters. In fact, it represents nothing more than a small first step that must be followed up by strong subsequent actions if the war against climate change is to be at all effective. The scornful attitude toward the Protocol shown by some countries will doom the entire Framework Convention to utter failure if the current situation remains unchanged. The Kyoto Protocol must be brought into effect without further delay. The industrial Powers cannot continue to make the plea of Saint Augustine, Lord, make me thy servant, but not yet awhile.' Since our people live in such close harmony with the natural environment, we also face a host of other pressing environmental issues. Our coral reefs are getting a great deal of international attention partly because of their potential for commercial exploitation. We appreciate those possibilities and are determined to preserve our legal rights in any exploitation that takes place. But we also appreciate the reefs as our natural buffers against the sea and the hosts for marine resources far beyond the regular bounty of present-day fishing. This is more than a resource; it is a lifeline for many island countries. The serious decline in the health of coral reefs all over the world must be reversed. Stocks of our only substantial economic resource tuna have seen a marked decline in recent years. Other species and key elements of the ocean ecosystem are also now imperilled as never before. The Federated States of Micronesia will be lobbying for an aggressive oceans resource protection policy in both the regional and international arenas. Water itself, and access to it, is very much a threatened resource in our country, where we are surrounded by the ocean but have limited fresh water. We rely upon rainwater and its collection in the lenses that lies beneath our atolls. Every drop is precious. We say that a vulnerable life, such as that of a child, is like morning dew on a taro leaf, to be handled with care so that it does not slip away. Members may be surprised to learn that islands in the Pacific Ocean, so often pictured in everyone's dream of paradise, are more concerned about drought than any other natural threat, including typhoons. Not only do we experience the salt-water corruption of our fresh water and our food crops, as a result of increased storm activity and sea-level rise, we also now must try to cope with droughts brought on by increasingly unpredictable El NiÒo activity linked to climate change. Fortunately, the world in general seems to be waking up to the universal human requirement for access to adequate, clean water. The special exposure of island countries received welcome attention at the recent Third World Water Forum in Kyoto. In addition, I wish to point to a very important, first-ever interregional collaboration on this vital subject, in the form of a Memorandum of Understanding recently concluded between our South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission and the Caribbean Environmental Health Institute. I have spoken much about my country's concerns but, of course, we are not alone in these concerns. The world's small island developing States face largely the same set of issues in different degrees. 20 For that reason, we were grateful for the international attention generated by the first United Nations Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Barbados in 1994. The Barbados Programme of Action, which was the product of that Conference, has been a limited success. The Conference succeeded in focusing attention on the unique set of problems our small island nations face. However, it seems that the international community has to some extent been content to raise awareness of the issues, while showing a waning interest in implementing specific measures during the years following the Conference itself. We applaud the decision to hold a follow-up conference in Mauritius in 2004, and we look forward to a frank evaluation of the progress, or lack thereof, in implementing the Barbados Plan of Action during the past 10 years. It is my hope that the Mauritius conference will afford an opportunity to regain lost momentum. This is a landmark year for my nation. We have completed 17 years in a post-trusteeship political relationship with the United States. By all accounts, this has been a success. Never before has free association been attempted on this scale. I am pleased that both my country and our development partner, the United States, have seen fit to continue this relationship into the future by amending the treaty between us known as the Compact of Free Association. As we celebrate the success that this renewal represents, it is proper to recall the long and effective stewardship of our region by the United Nations Trusteeship Council. We are grateful for the lasting contribution of the United Nations system to the history of Micronesia, and we look forward to continuing to work in this body and others in the United Nations system to reach our collective goals. In closing, I would like to refer to the words of the American President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, who once said, If I were asked to state the great objective which church and state are both demanding for the sake of every man and woman and child in this country, I would say that the great objective is a more abundant life.' I believe that the President was speaking of true abundance, not only in a material sense, but also in the sense of the security of mind and body that comes with freedom, opportunity and human fulfilment. We must ask ourselves whether what we are striving for here at the United Nations is faithful to that lofty ideal. This Organization is the greatest forum ever created on this planet. It cannot afford to allow its important role in conflict management to push aside the even greater task of managing the conditions that produce those conflicts. We bring together here, under the guidance of the Charter, for the first time in human history, all kinds of resources necessary to lead mankind to a more abundant life. Let it not be said of us later that we failed in that task.  ﻿The serious events currently threatening international peace and security armed conflict, terrorism, poverty, disease and unfair trading practices call urgently and firmly to mankind's conscience and, above all, to that of the world's leaders. Guided by this consideration, I come before this Assembly to share our common concerns with the other leaders of the world and to seek appropriate answers that will restore confidence and hope to humankind. Given the importance of this gathering, the election of Mr. Hunte to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session in every way represents a tribute and a symbol of the honour being paid to a young and small nation, Saint Lucia. That honour is ours as well the honour of small States, which see this consecration as a demonstration of the United Nations awareness of the concept of the sovereign equality of States. We extend the same sentiments to Mr. Hunte's predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan. We must recognize, however, that all of our expectations of this session will be chimerical if we do not fully support the activities of the Secretary- General. I therefore wish solemnly to congratulate Mr. Kofi Annan on his active commitment to the cause of peace and justice and to reaffirm our complete trust in him and our sincere encouragement. That is particularly true this year because our Organization was brutally tested and unfairly harmed by the heinous attack of 19 August on the United Nations office in Baghdad, which took the lives of a number of staff members, including that of the Special Representative of the Secretary- General for Iraq, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. Burkina Faso once again pays tribute to their memory. The convulsions of our times reflected in the increased hotbeds of crisis, the radicalization of international terrorism and organized crime, growing poverty and the proliferation of disease convince us fully that international solidarity must remain active if we are to guarantee our world the stability and security it so desires. Indeed, despite the undeniable involvement and efforts of the United Nations; regional organizations, such as the African Union; and subregional organizations, such as the Economic Community of West African States, the Southern Africa Development Community, the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa and the Community of Sahel and Saharan States, to name but a few, in the management and settlement of many conflicts; and despite a certain number of success stories, such as the restoration of peace in Angola, Sierra Leone and more generally in the Great Lakes region, the rolling wave of armed conflict, tension and instability threatens to become an ongoing phenomenon. In Iraq, given the tragic turn of events, we feel that the Organization must once again be placed at the heart of the key responsibilities both in order to define a transitional political process free of any taint of colonialism and to rebuild the country. In the Middle East, where the escalation of violence and the intransigence of the belligerents make us fear the worst every day, we believe that the road map offers an opportunity to emerge from this crisis. However, without an international body on the ground to follow up and monitor events, no agreement on this major conflict can work. We cannot fail to mention the situations in the CÙte d'Ivoire, Burundi, Sudan and the Horn of Africa. The very least that can be said about these conflicts is that they remain of concern, despite all the efforts that have been made to settle them. Clearly, given its history and geography, the political crisis in the CÙte d'Ivoire is a major source of anxiety to us, particularly since the events of 19 September 2002. Above and beyond its incalculable consequences in terms of human lives lost, human rights violations and economic and financial damage, that serious crisis has demonstrated the extent to which we are so heavily interdependent in our subregion. This is yet another reason to hasten integration. We therefore deeply hope that the CÙte d'Ivoire will return to lasting peace as soon as possible through the implementation of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement. Just as worrisome is the tenacity with which terrorism harries and defies the international community, while using its own protean manifestations to evade the most impressive and sophisticated arsenals set up to contain it. Given the complexity of the phenomenon and the enormous obstacles to be overcome, the only valid activity is to make a collective response to what has become a threat to everyone. In this titanic struggle, it goes without saying that Burkina Faso is on the side of civilization against barbarism. It is pledged to this position, subscribing without hesitation to the anti-terror measures of the United Nations, particularly the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. However, while anathematizing terrorists of all stripes, we must recognize that one of the sources of such tragedy is the despair of certain peoples, the victims of intolerable frustration and injustice that are not being addressed quickly enough. That is why we must welcome the rejection by most countries in Cancun of the unfair trading practices that subsidize thousands of farmers of the North while preparing the certain deaths of millions of peasants of the South. It is also why our claims on behalf of African cotton growers will intensify as the market becomes ever more distorted. Considering that cotton production, which represents a tiny fraction of the economic activity of the industrialized countries, is a key element of the poverty reduction policies and a basic factor of the political and social stability of the States of Western and Central Africa, it is easy to take the full measure of the bias to which we are subject. What is true for cotton is just as true for most of the agricultural products of the developing countries. We must therefore work to redress such injustices. The duty of solidarity in favour of development is a moral duty for the countries of the North. Such solidarity is an urgently-needed response to the destitution of our populations, especially since it addresses peoples more than Governments. This implies in no way that developing countries should be taken in charge, but that they should be helped to assume responsibility for their own futures. As for Africa, it has come to see that its salvation lies in endogenous development and has therefore decided to take its own destiny in hand. That is the raison d''tre of the New Partnership for Africa's Development, to which the General Assembly is to devote a high-level debate in the near future. It will be noted that I have a personal stake in the problems of development. I deeply believe that development through expanded job opportunities and the progressive elimination of poverty is a sine qua non of peace and thus of the very survival of humankind. This conviction led me to propose that, together with the International Labour Organization, the Organization of African Unity and later the African Union begin considering the issue of employment and the fight against poverty in Africa. A ministerial meeting was held in Ouagadougou in April 2002 on the issue in its many manifestations with respect to job growth as a means of defeating poverty in Africa. Convinced that such thinking must be carried out at the highest level, the African Union at its Maputo summit decided to convene in Ouagadougou next year in 2004 a special summit of heads of State and Government on that very theme. For African leaders this will mean turning into specific and realistic programmes and strategies their commitments to create employment as a good way to combat poverty in Africa. That meeting will be preceded by a civil society forum, through which employers and employees, non- governmental organizations, the African diaspora, institutions and development partners will make their contributions to our collective thinking. Progress, independence and peace are intrinsic values of democracy. All nations and peoples are 12 working to meet that undeniable need. For more than a decade, Burkina Faso has been firmly rooted in the rule of law, oriented by political pluralism, good governance and the strength of institutions that guarantee human rights. We are pursuing this anchor of democracy, convinced that there is nothing more important at stake. This requirement should be true for everyone peoples, nations and international organizations. Thus, the long-sought reform of the United Nations, with the democratization of the institution, its structures and operations, the main goal, is becoming an imperative. It must give greater and better responsibilities to all nations, small and large, and avoid exclusion, such as those that have been against the Republic of China on Taiwan for 30 years. Nothing justifies keeping that country of 23 million inhabitants sidelined at the United Nations. We are fully aware of the immensity and the complexity of the trials that disturb international life, but they are not insurmountable. Who could doubt that, despite such trials and pitfalls, the world could renew itself, if we were to agree to order our ambitions and efforts under the auspices of the United Nations? In that connection, Burkina Faso, a Sahelian country, aware of the continuing deterioration of the world ecological situation and its devastating affect on development, supports the idea of creating a specialized United Nations body for the environment presented by President Jacques Chirac at the fifty- eighth session of the General Assembly. In conclusion, the clear awareness of what is at stake for the international community and, above all, the commitment we have undertaken to protect future generations from the scourge of war, hunger and illiteracy, are also factors that auger a more peaceful and equitable society. We believe that, in that sign of hope and perseverance, we should always and everywhere direct our action.  ﻿Allow me, Sir, to discharge the agreeable duty of congratulating Mr. Julian Hunte on his unanimous election to the Presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth regular session. I would also like to commend your predecessor, His Excellence Mr. Jan Kavan, who fulfilled his mandate to the satisfaction of all. I note the efforts and specific involvement of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in the peaceful resolution of the complex crisis in the Great Lakes region and Central Africa. The Congolese people continue to be grateful to the United Nations system for the assistance that it gave it through the United Nation Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Interim Emergency Multinational Force deployed in Bunia and especially for strengthening the peacekeeping mandate of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC). The Congolese delegation associates itself with the spirit of sympathy and solidarity elicited by the terrorist attack committed in Iraq against the great family of the United Nations. Indeed, the Congolese people were also deeply moved to learn of the brutal and tragic death of the ardent defender of freedom and human rights, Sergio Vieira de Mello, to whom I pay tribute. At a time when the entire world remembers the tragic events of 11 September 2001 in this very city of New York, the United Nations was still mourning the loss of its staff and fell victim yet again to a terrorist attack in Iraq. The Congolese people renew their unequivocal condemnation of international terrorism. Africa is not spared from the scourge of terrorism. It is enough to recall the tragic events in Nairobi, Dar es Salaam and Casablanca. This session coincides with the final phase of the process of the establishment of transitional institutions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is here that I would like to express my gratitude to the international community, because its efforts, support and assistance in this peace process led to the signing and implementation of the Comprehensive Agreement. It is the hope of the people of the Congo and the Transitional Government to see the United Nations redouble its efforts and pursue its support for the process of peace and reunification now underway. At a time when this lengthy war is coming to an end, it should be noted that the Ituri district is still a gaping wound that the slightest careless mistake could inflame. While the deployment of the Interim Emergency Multinational Force in Bunia allowed for a sharp reduction in acts of violence and contributed to 15 stabilization of the security and humanitarian situation, the situation in the provinces of North and South Kivu remain of concern. It is important that neighbouring countries respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo so as to recreate a climate conducive to a return to the normalization of relations in the region. Aside from the numerous human lives affected by this war, the plants and the animals have also endured immeasurable damage. Our determination to restore everything that was destroyed is equalled only by our hope of turning our country into an oasis of peace for all. We believe that a United Nations fund to support this effort would be fair compensation. All the present efforts of the Transition Government for the reunification of the national territory, the pacification of the country, the reconstruction of infrastructure and the restoration of State authority are working to achieve the ultimate objective of transition, namely, the holding of free, transparent and democratic elections. It is in that context that my country voices the hope that the international community will provide the necessary assistance at all stages of the electoral process. In the peace process now underway, an area which is of critical importance and an imperative is that of independent justice, whose equitable administration would mark the end of impunity. On the domestic level, the Transition Government is working to conclude successfully the reform advocated here, for equitable justice is the real proof of national reconciliation. On the international level we believe that the major objective is the establishment, with the assistance of the United Nations, of an international criminal tribunal for the Democratic Republic of the Congo to deal with crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, including rape used as a weapon of war, and mass violations of human rights. Moreover, to ensure the best possible coverage for protection of human rights, as well as of humanitarian rights, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has ratified several international conventions, including the Rome Statute establishing the International Criminal Court. Given the important provision for the protection of human rights contained in that Statute, the Congo, on the basis of respect for fundamental principles that govern international relations, intends to see that there is strict respect for the implementation of that instrument. As one can see, a new era has dawned in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, an era of peace and reconciliation, of national unity and the re- establishment of State authority, an era of reconstruction, economic recovery and development to consolidate and put to use the gains of arduous political negotiations. Aware of challenges and looking toward the post- conflict period, the Transition Government has placed the well-being of the Congolese people at the centre of its concerns. It intends to imprint on its programme the requisite good governance, as well as macroeconomic management that ensures the security of investments, respects social rights and guarantees protection and legal and judicial security for employment, business and foreign investment. We remain aware of the importance of sharing those resources likely to contribute to economic integration, and we intend to conduct a policy of dialogue, openness and good-neighbourliness. The priority given to regional integration is a sign of our adherence to the initiative of the international conference on peace, security, democracy and development in the region of the Great Lakes and of Central Africa. The Congolese people consider the holding of this forum a historic opportunity that must be seized so that it can lead to the application of fundamental principles of international law. As we are determined to maintain good neighbourly relations and relations of mutual respect with border countries, and thus refuse to serve as a rear-guard base for subversive movements against the countries surrounding us, we in turn will reject interference or destabilization from neighbouring countries. For us there is a need to do everything possible in order to build peace in the region and to effectively affirm: a spirit of solidarity, of sharing and of peaceful coexistence at the regional and global level; the fight against poverty and the HIV/AIDS pandemic; control of the movement and proliferation of small arms and light weapons, which are claiming victims every day; and the campaign against the proliferation of antipersonnel mines. 16 Throughout my statement I have condemned terrorism in all forms. I also spoke of the consequences of the bloody, unjust and unacceptable war which has just devastated the fundamental infrastructure of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I have also referred to the significant progress made in the peace process underway while emphasizing the importance of the support of the international community for the success of that process, which will culminate in the organization of elections. We are aware and convinced that it is within our power to play a stabilizing role in Central and Southern Africa upon which the stability and economic recovery of the region depend. I conclude by reaffirming the will of the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to cooperate with the international community in building a better world that is designed to build peace and greater solidarity among peoples and nations. ﻿It gives me profound pleasure to welcome and congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte in regard to the lofty position that he now holds. It was not long ago that he was fighting alongside the ambassadors of the Latin American and Caribbean Group. He represents the smallest country that has ever ascended to the presidency, and, for his Caribbean colleagues, there will be additional rejoicing when his photograph appears on the Wall of Presidents. It is my hope that our younger diplomats will endeavour to emulate him and continue to demonstrate the mettle of small island developing States. But let me also pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for the able and skilful manner in which he conducted our deliberations during the fifty-seventh session. The Secretary-General and his staff must also receive acclaim for their diligence and steadfast work. We mourn and grieve for the United Nations staff members killed and wounded in Baghdad, and, indeed, for all members of the staff who have made the ultimate sacrifice in upholding the ideals of the United Nations. We have often repeated statistics on human living conditions, but it seems to be just a recitation. Nonetheless, in the hope that this year figures may move those in control to make a meaningful attempt at 25 remedies, let me join the list of other colleagues who have recalled the fact that almost half of the world’s population subsists on less than $2 a day, and a fifth lives on less than $1 a day. The point to be stressed is that global inequality has increased. The digital divide is widening, the number of refugees and displaced persons has grown, and the AIDS crisis is devastating numerous societies. What tends to be ignored is what developing countries have been doing for themselves. In the Caribbean, the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries have come to each other’s assistance in times of crisis, whether there be natural devastation by way of earthquakes, volcanic eruption, drought or floods. We have used our military forces positively, to rescue, to stabilize and to rehabilitate, when suffering the vicissitudes of nature. Strapped as we are in regard to finances, we have assisted one another in regard to the severest of economic constraints. If an unbiased evaluation is made, it will be clear that average gains in human development in low- and middle-income countries have been substantial and higher than gains in income. Life expectancy has increased by 59 per cent, and illiteracy has been reduced from 39 per cent in 1970 to 25 per cent at the turn of the century. Nevertheless, current development trends are not sustainable and are placing extreme pressure on the environment and on the impoverished, who bear the overwhelming brunt of environmental degradation. Our coastal systems are threatened, dominant countries are fishing indiscriminately within our exclusive economic zones, and our coral reefs have not only been damaged but are disappearing. Yet aid has declined as a share of gross national product, and World Bank research indicates that, without a doubling of development assistance, the endorsed Millennium Goals are unlikely to be achieved. Development experts appear to have a single focus. We fully accept the necessity for market reforms, but they are insufficient in themselves. There is a need for broad social reforms. Equitable income distribution and secondary school enrolment have been found to be insensitive to growth, while air quality has been negatively correlated to growth. The global institutions continue to listen to their identified experts and to disregard local experience, whether from the aged and wise or from the young and brilliant. Sustained development requires a significant percentage of domestic or local ownership. Our religious literature states that continuing a lifestyle demands the depositing or planting of seeds, from which, in a relatively short period of time, comes new life and the continuance of organic existence. With that in mind, it is imperative that development strategies clearly take into consideration those who will succeed us, and Antigua and Barbuda, which devotes much attention and planning to the advancement of its youth, is advocating continued global focus on this issue in order to ensure a more harmonious international atmosphere than the one in which we carry out our activities. With that in mind, Caribbean heads of State and Government have met with representatives of the World Bank and are jointly in the process of, first, identifying the risk and protective factors and determinants of youth behaviours and development; secondly, demonstrating that the negative behaviours of young people are costly not only to themselves but also to society as a whole; and, thirdly, identifying key intervention points for youth development, underscoring identified risk and protective factors. Presently, as a result of this joint thrust, we are targeting sexual and physical abuse, HIV/AIDS as linked to misguided values about sexuality, the incidence of rage, youth unemployment, and social misconceptions as to the use of alcohol and marijuana. Moving forward requires modernizing the educational system and maximizing the protective effect of schools, upgrading public health-care systems, making families a top policy issue, and strengthening community and neighbourhood support to adolescents. Antigua and Barbuda believes that, whereas aid is sorely needed, its effectiveness will be limited unless a level playing field is provided in regard to trade and investment in developing societies. There cannot be meaningful progress by talking about the relative significance and importance of free trade. We listen and see the dominant countries employ various and diverse forms of agricultural protectionism, while taking away from former colonies of exploitation vital preferences needed to keep their products on the market. Why should globalization be oppressive to the pusillanimous? We have been listening to the modifications of the philosophies of Cobden and Bright, but are feeling the yoke of global practices, knowing that never in modern history has there ever been free trade. 26 The fears of developing countries in regard to the practices and realities of globalization, as opposed to its often-vaunted philosophy, were manifested at Cancún in September of this year. Cancún, we have been made to understand, means snake pit in the local Mayan language, and our hope is that there will be some meaningful effort to overcome the drawbacks. Developing countries will be hindered from developing themselves if lip service alone continues to be paid to poverty. The first step in the elimination of poverty is to adequately recognize the multifunctional role of agriculture. This multifunctional role incorporates food safety, animal welfare and the preservation of land. Unfortunately, Cancún proved once again that the dominant countries would continue to exempt themselves from the rules governing free trade and to domestically provide substantive subsidies to their farmers, while denying the former colonies of exploitation the right to preferences. The year 2004 will mark the tenth anniversary of the first United Nations Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which was held in Barbados in 1994. In looking back at the almost 10 years since that Conference, we hold these following truths to be self evident: In the Barbados Programme’s attention on the unique circumstances of small island developing States, the corresponding actions to address these circumstances by the international community, has been lacking. This is the opportunity presented by the international meeting, to review the implementation of the Programme of Action that will be held in Mauritius in August 2004. It presents us with a second chance to identify a set of concrete actions which will be needed to further the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action and thereby regain the momentum lost by small island developing States in their quest for sustainable development. So far we have not been satisfied that problems relating to the trans- shipment of nuclear waste through our waters, bilging and fishing indiscriminately in our Exclusive Economic Zones have been given any meaningful consideration. My Government welcomes the entry into force of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity, having recently deposited our instruments of ratification for both the Protocol and the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants. As a Party to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we wish to lend our support to the call made by the Foreign Minister of Japan for parties to the Climate Change Convention to maintain the international momentum for climate change negotiations, for the early entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol and for the formulation of common rules that will facilitate participation by all countries. The Millennium Development Goals constitute an ambitious agenda for reducing poverty and improving lives. The challenge to implement them is enormous. A case in point is the target of halving by 2015 the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water and proper sanitation. To meet this target, the world will need to connect approximately 200,000 people to clean water and 400,000 people to improved sanitation each day. That will require three things: first, innovative financing mechanisms to assure the necessary doubling in financial flows to developing countries for water and sanitation, from current spending of $10 billion each year, to about $20 billion a year; secondly, greatly improved governance of scarce water resources, built around holistic, integrated water resources management strategies that encompass priorities from drinking to agriculture and industrial development; and thirdly, a clear focus on building capacity where it is needed most: working directly with local communities, especially women, to help craft and implement their own solutions. And this is just for water. We see, as the dominant Powers repeat their call for universal democracy, that the former colonies of exploitation must remind them that democracy is most difficult to achieve among those witnessing the tears and the conditions of hungry children. Democracy struggles to maintain itself among those who are racked with illnesses and weak from the lack of adequate nutrition. Democracy is practically a utopian ideal, in which there are defined class divisions and insurmountable social barriers. For democracy to thrive and prosper, all sectors of the society have to participate fully with regard to economic growth and an adequate distribution of income. It is, therefore, incumbent that society work toward integral, equitable and sustainable social and economic development. In Antigua and Barbuda, in the midst of our trials and tribulations, we have maintained democracy, and it is a hallmark of our existence. 27 The products of science, technology and innovation have to be harnessed and designed to add value to the real components of development. Wealth must be generated in order to raise the dignity and the esteem of mankind, and to garner respect for the internationally recognized fundamental rights and principles of labour. Without such, socio-economic development and, consequently, the full enjoyment of democracy will be held in abeyance. My country is at a loss to fully comprehend why some of the major countries of this world oppose the International Criminal Court (ICC). It is vital to our security and development. The Court represents a revolution in legal and moral attitudes toward some of the worst crimes on Earth. Whereas many developing States have suffered under the yoke of globalization, the ICC represents a plus for the globalization process, its principles of justice and the rule of law in international affairs. The Rome Statute has sufficient checks and balances to allay all fears, and we remain convinced that the ICC will be a legitimate judicial institution to adequately judge individuals for war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. We reiterate that this can be done while guaranteeing States their rights, as they are protected from any interference by the Court if they pursue the given crimes at the national level, and that the prosecutor’s autonomous power is accompanied by guarantees against using the Court for specious or politically motivated endeavours. The Non-Self-Governing Territories of the Caribbean look to Caribbean members of the Special Committee on Decolonization, more commonly known as the Special Committee of 24, to give guidance in regard to their constitutional evolution. This year there was a breakthrough in Anguilla, as the United Kingdom agreed to have the regional seminar held in one of the Non-Self-Governing Territories, and for the first time the United Nations Secretariat agreed to write directly to the local representatives, rather than through the representatives of the administering Powers. But more importantly, the United Kingdom sent a senior official from the Commonwealth and Overseas Office, who was to gain the respect of the seminar participants. The Non-Self-Governing Territories greeted this development, and all sent delegations that were vocal and explained that their options had never been explained to them. They were eager to remain in touch with the United Nations Secretariat, and sought to take advantage of whatever experiences, educational and otherwise, the United Nations could provide. In an atmosphere of cordiality, the administrating Power and the non-self-governing territories expressed ways and means of promoting development and advancement for the territories. Quite significantly the non-self- governing territories hailed the new policy of the United Kingdom for consultation with the elected officials of its territories on the appointment of governors. My country would not like to give the impression that we are only concerned with development, as this would be far from the truth. We are cognizant of other global issues, particularly with reference to peace and security. The images that are constantly before us with reference to Iraq and the Middle East leave us questioning the brotherhood of mankind. The United Nations has to be unified with reference to the rehabilitation of Iraq, and the transition of its administrative structures into the hands of its nationals. We subsequently give our support for the peace process in the Middle East, based on the respective resolutions of both the General Assembly and the Security Council. Likewise, we give wholehearted support to the preservation of the role of the United Nations and other organizations in working toward the stabilization and security of Afghanistan. In the same vein, we support and encourage the efforts made to resolve the conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the stabilization of peace in parts of West Africa and the Balkans. We continue to press for the revitalization of the disarmament process, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and general arms control. These are indeed perilous times, and, when an event occurs in a distant part of the globe that can drastically affect us domestically, total disregard of the need for tolerance will not only produce resentment but also the dangerous practice of intolerance. For such times it is far better to remember the words of Thomas Paine, who stated that “The world is my country, all mankind are my brethren, and to do good is my religion.” ﻿I wish to begin by congratulating the President, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session and wish him every success with his work. I also wish to thank his predecessor, President Kavan, for the dedication with which he presided over the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I also wish to endorse the statements made by the Italian presidency on behalf of the European Union. This year is a special one for Germany’s work within the United Nations. History is both a reminder and a guide for us. Thirty years ago, on 18 September 1973, the United Nations welcomed Germany back into the fold of the family of nations. My predecessor, Federal Chancellor Willy Brandt, paved the way for that move. His standing as an anti-fascist inspired confidence for Germany. His passionate commitment to internationalism went far beyond the policy of détente in the then East-West conflict. In 1980 he made an urgent appeal to the community of States with a report entitled “North- South, A Programme for Survival”. He wrote: “The globalization of the dangers resulting from wars, chaos and self-destruction calls for a domestic policy that goes far beyond national borders.” We are strongly committed to this task, and I think that we Germans are not the only ones who are committed to it, because, as I said, history is our guide. It guides us towards intensive international cooperation, of course under the auspices of the United Nations, that we must strengthen through courageous reforms. It guides us towards a universal order based on the rule of law and human dignity, on good, responsible governance and prosperity that is truly shared by all people. It also guides us towards security and peace through comprehensive prevention. We must act resolutely by pursuing an effective multilateral strategy wherever peace is threatened and human rights are violated. But we must act just as resolutely to prevent conflict and create stable structures so that people can lead their lives in freedom and tolerance with one another. Thirty years ago, Germany was a country with limited sovereignty, divided by the Iron Curtain. Today, Germany is a sovereign nation, a civil Power in the heart of a united Europe. We live in a common area of freedom, the rule of law, prosperity and social responsibility. This goes to show that development towards justice and peace is indeed possible and we shall not cease to support endeavours to that end anywhere in the world, be it in the Middle East, in Africa or in any other crisis area. Bearing in mind our own history, we are indeed assuming responsibility for a cooperative policy of peace. This we do by employing economic, political and humanitarian means. But we are also assuming military responsibility, shoulder to shoulder with our partners in NATO and the European Union, where there is absolutely no other way to secure peace and protect human beings. Today, more than 9,000 members of the German armed forces and police are deployed on international peace missions. Our top priority is our commitment to peace in Afghanistan. Germany is willing to maintain its commitment there in the long term and we are ready to increase it beyond its present scope. The basis for such commitment is the Charter of the United Nations. In the Unification Treaty, Germany vowed that it would only deploy its armed forces within the framework of this Charter. The Charter provides us with “the necessary building blocks to ensure that our common humanity is an inclusive one, built on values such as tolerance and dignity”. These were the words of Sergio Vieira de Mello, who on 19 August 2003 fell victim to an underhanded criminal attack in Baghdad. He was killed along with 22 others, including many members of the United Nations staff working for the people of Iraq and their hopes of a better future. We are deeply affected by their deaths and must honour them by taking on their legacy. Our response must be to strengthen the role and commitment of the United Nations in Iraq. Only the United Nations can guarantee the legitimacy required to enable the people of Iraq to speedily rebuild their country under an independent, representative Government. Germany stands ready to support such a process. We are ready to 24 provide humanitarian, technical and economic assistance and could also train Iraqi security personnel. International terrorism, failing States and the dangers posed by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction all threaten our joint security. The obvious question is: What must be done to truly enhance security? We must capture the terrorists and their masters and destroy their infrastructure. There can be no doubt that we must prevent any further proliferation of nuclear weapons. We must strengthen the inspections regimes and pursue a policy of controlled disarmament. But as we know from history, as well as our own experience, to follow any strategy focused narrowly on the military and the police would be a recipe for failure. Rather, what is needed is to address the root causes of terrorism and insecurity. To combat fanaticism, we must ensure social and material as well as cultural security. That can only be achieved on the basis of a broad concept of security. If we want to outlaw infamy we must put an end to lawlessness. That is the core task, indeed, of the international courts of justice and especially the International Criminal Court. In order to win hearts and minds for freedom, peace and an open society, we must help people to acquire a greater stake in society, build better lives for them and provide them with a secure environment. Afghanistan is a good example of this. There, the international community succeeded in liberating the Afghan people from the scourge of the Taliban and al Qaeda. At the same time, the Petersberg Conference on Afghanistan, held in Bonn under the auspices of the United Nations, created a political framework for rebuilding the country. This process needs our continued support. There must also be sustained international commitment to the task of strengthening security. In the long run, the fight against terrorism can be won only if people see that it produces tangible benefits in their everyday lives. They need to experience at first hand that being once again part of the international community means not only greater freedom and more security, but also entails better development opportunities and a greater stake in society. There is no doubt that we have already made major strides towards realizing our common goals enshrined in the United Nations Charter. More countries than ever before now have democratic Governments. Our concerted efforts have enabled more people than ever before to put poverty behind them. But we must note that the gap between the world’s rich and poor has still not been closed and the fight against hunger, injustice and oppression is still far from won. For this reason, eradicating poverty remains an imperative of our policy for peace and stability. There has been a drastic reduction in the number of wars fought between States. In the Balkans, for example, resolute action by NATO and the United Nations enabled us to put an end to certain wars and prevent others from breaking out in the first place. Nevertheless, our world has become — and not just since the barbaric terrorist attacks in New York and Washington or indeed Bali, Casablanca, Moscow or Djerba — a dramatically more insecure place. New threats that no country in the world can tackle effectively on its own, make international cooperation more vital than ever before. Such threats also require new strategies and that is why we are all called upon to review whether the instruments available to the United Nations are still appropriate for tackling these new challenges. We all have a responsibility to ensure that people and their rights are also protected in situations other than inter-State wars. They must be protected from genocide and the consequences of random violence as well. A political commitment to comprehensive prevention must further strengthen the United Nations monopoly on the use of force as well as the institutions of international law. Within the United Nations we need to muster the strength to launch overdue institutional reforms. My Government fully and wholeheartedly supports the proposals made by the Secretary-General. We must agree how to ensure in the future an even better allocation of abilities, skills and scarce resources. I also share the view of the Secretary-General that the legitimacy of the Security Council depends on how well it represents all nations and all regions. It is true that the Council must be reformed and enlarged. First and foremost, it must also include more representatives of the developing countries. Let me reiterate that in the context of such reform Germany is ready to assume greater responsibility. The world of the twenty-first century offers us, its inhabitants, ample scope for change, for better or worse. Given the wealth of opportunities and the immense dangers ahead, we have no choice but to 25 strive for greater international partnership and expand and strengthen multilateralism. We will only be able to make our world a more secure place if we can also make it more fair and equitable. It was for that very purpose, after all, that the international community created the United Nations. That is its mandate. Let us join together to make the United Nations even stronger. Let us make sure that it can fulfil its mandate to maintain international peace and security and that it can achieve greater justice for all. ﻿To begin, I would sincerely like to congratulate you on your election to this very important and difficult position as President of the Assembly and I wish you every success. This year, the United Nations has come close to the most dangerous brink in its more than a half- century of history. This is not only and not so much the Iraqi crisis per se. That crisis has become but a manifestation of what has really threatened the entire system of world order created after World War II. The basis of this world order is the unconditional primacy of international law over the aspirations of individual States. Take that away, and the world will again, as in centuries past, become hostage to the power of the mighty. This will not merely throw us backward. The beginning of the twenty-first century differs from past decades and centuries in that the existence of a single global super-Power will make the rule of the mighty global in both scale and consequence. “We all have to recognize — no matter how great our strength — that we must deny ourselves the license to do always as we please. ... Unless we are all willing to pay that price, no organization for world peace can accomplish its purpose”. These words, spoken by United States President Harry Truman, are as urgent today as they were back in 1945. We call upon everyone to be guided by them today as they were when our Organization was being set up. Belarus’ contribution to the creation of the United Nations and a new system of international security was one-third of our population, who gave their lives for the victory of peace over war and the victory of the coalition of the future over the coalition of the past. That is exactly why we in Belarus today sense with special urgency the danger of the erosion of a just and stable world order. Let us preserve the coalition of the entire world for global peace. Let us not allow the Security Council, as the main body for maintaining peace and security, to be replaced by “coalitions of the willing” that use force without Council authorization. Let us not forget that only a just peace can prove to be a stable peace. Belarus welcomes the emerging effort to return to the United Nations its legitimate role in settling the Iraq issue. This reflects the recognition that a military force or an occupying force cannot solve the problem of nation-building. We hope that this will also become recognition of the fact that a preventive war makes a poor foundation for security. We hope that a new Security Council resolution on Iraq being worked out now will strengthen the central role of the United Nations in the earliest and urgent return to the people of Iraq of its sovereignty, its right to independently determine its political future and its right to natural resources, so that constitutional processes and later election processes can be implemented by Iraqis in the interest of Iraqis. At the same time, Belarus is worried by the pattern that is dangerous both for the future of the United Nations and for international peace and is taking shape on the most urgent issues: the Security Council and the United Nations are ignored when 9 unauthorized military action is taken, and are then invited back only in the aftermath, when their authority, experience and resources are seen as essential for rebuilding a peaceful life. That is what happened in Kosovo and what is happening in Iraq today. Belarus believes in the United Nations. We believe that it has a central role to play in the most urgent issues of today and that it cannot be replaced. We believe in the constant values and justice of the supremacy of international law and the fundamental principles of its Charter. New global challenges and threats merely reaffirm that these values are indispensable. As a founding Member of the United Nations, Belarus sees the need to modernize and adapt the United Nations mechanisms and structures to the realities of this new century. Of special importance is the reform of the United Nations Security Council. As has been correctly noted by the Secretary-General, it is not only a question of enlarging the Council’s membership. Life itself has put on the agenda of the reform process many other aspects, including the Council’s capacity to react to threats to peace and security. It is essential to achieve a reasonable balance in the interrelationship between the main United Nations bodies, inherent in its Charter. A stronger role of the General Assembly is an important direction for increasing the Organization’s efficiency. The potential of the presidency of the General Assembly is underused. As an officer elected by the entire United Nations, the President of the General Assembly can and should be called upon to serve as a catalyst and organizer in searching for solutions to the problems the world and the Organization are facing. It is necessary to reform and improve the activities of the Economic and Social Council as the coordinator of United Nations efforts in economic, social and related areas. Having accumulated considerable experience working in the Bureau of the Council, the Republic of Belarus is ready to make a constructive contribution to these efforts. Those were exactly the considerations that guided Belarus when it proposed its candidature to Council membership for 2004-2006. The United Nations should pay priority attention to developing international law: new realities in international politics as well as new universal world problems have to be taken into consideration. Belarus is a party to all key multilateral treaties regulating various spheres of international life. This year we have acceded to a further number of such treaties, including the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its protocols. The international fight against terrorism that unfolded after the tragic events of 11 September 2001 rightly placed the United Nations in the centre of antiterrorist efforts. The work of the Security Council’s Counter-Terrorism Committee has helped in the forming of a global coalition under the aegis of the United Nations to counter terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We must, however, be realistic: force alone can never eradicate the abominable phenomenon of terrorism, at least, not forever. Injustice, inequality and indifference will bring it forth again and again, just like the accumulation of electricity in the atmosphere produces a lightning bolt. The Secretary-General is right when he states that in order to maintain a genuinely global coalition for fighting terrorism the world must also see progress on other fronts of the struggle for a humane and just world order. Herein lies an important challenge for the United Nations, for permanent members of the Security Council and for all Members of the Organization. The principal contribution of Belarus to the non- proliferation of nuclear weapons and to conventional disarmament has been universally recognized. Our concern is therefore all the greater with regard to the gradual erosion of multilateral norms in disarmament and the stagnation of the international bodies, above all the negotiation mechanisms, in charge of international security and disarmament. From this rostrum, we join in the appeal not to allow the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This is a most important task. It should be noted, that for many years, Belarus has initiated efforts to prevent the development of new types of such weapons. However, has everything possible been done in recent years, including by the most militarily powerful States, to strengthen the multilateral non-proliferation regime in all its most important aspects? Is everything being done to that end today? An appropriate answer to that 10 question would be the ratification by all permanent members of the Security Council of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The activities of multilateral bodies in the area of disarmament should be adapted to new realities. We proceed from the assumption that the United Nations should draw up a clear-cut list of priority directions in ensuring international security and generate programmes to overcome real threats to mankind. The resolutions we adopt should contain clear directives to existing forums and structures in the areas of international security, arms control, non-proliferation and disarmament. Only with this approach will we be able to stop the devaluation of such notions as peace, security and stability. I wish to inform delegations that Belarus has recently taken another responsible step to strengthen these values. While possessing the world’s seventh largest arsenal of anti-personnel landmines, the Republic of Belarus has joined the Ottawa Convention on their prohibition. We count on international assistance in their elimination. The norms of international law play a principled role in shaping a just international economic order. The objective of providing equal access to world markets and to the benefits of the process of globalization for all States, particularly developing countries and countries with economies in transition, has unfortunately not been achieved. That is why we urge Member States to pay unabated attention to the process of developing the norms and rules of international trade and commercial activities in the interests of common well-being. After the recent failure of the Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Cancún, the leading economic Powers should understand the risks of delaying the negotiations within the WTO both on the issue of new rules as well as on the problem of new membership. One should not forget that providing an opportunity to all States to use the benefits of the multilateral trading system is in the long-term interests of peace, security and stability. I wish to inform the General Assembly that, as its contribution to ensuring access for developing countries and least developed countries to the world market, Belarus has made a decision to extend unilateral trade preferences to a large number of such States. Our country’s National Centre of Technology Transfer has a high potential for innovation and is ready for extensive cooperation with all interested States. Its institutional capacities are intended to meet not only our requirements, but the interests of developing countries as well. Let me touch upon the problem of the consequences of the largest technogenic catastrophe of the twentieth century, the disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. We are grateful to the leadership of the Secretariat for its ongoing activities to mobilize international support in that direction. This year has been marked by the establishment of the International Chernobyl Research and Information Network and of the international Chernobyl Forum by the International Atomic Energy Agency. Jointly with the delegations of other affected States, we have prepared for this session a draft resolution on strengthening international cooperation and coordination of efforts in studying, mitigating and minimizing the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The document seeks to ensure the implementation of a new United Nations strategy on Chernobyl. We hope that it will be supported by all delegations. The Republic of Belarus also proposes an initiative to hold in Minsk in 2006 an international conference timed to coincide with the twentieth anniversary of the disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. The main objectives of the conference will be the search for ways to provide normal living conditions to people living in affected areas and an exchange of experiences in solving the problems of sustainable development in those regions. We invite all interested Member States and international organizations to take part in preparing and holding this event. In the area of counteracting international crime, the fight against human trafficking and illegal drug trafficking should become one of the United Nations priorities. Our country has been actively participating in international efforts to stop the modern slave and drug trades. Located at the crossroads of the most important transportation corridors between Asia and Europe, Belarus offers efficient interaction in solving these problems with all our neighbours and, especially, with the European Union. Common efforts are needed to fight common problems; that way, everybody wins. The global scope of problems demands a global scale of interaction involving all States without exception. Mankind made itself the master of the world after having become homo sapiens — sentient man. In order to become the master of its destiny, and not a hostage to challenges and threats, humanity should become humanitas sapiens — sentient humanity.﻿Three years ago, we held the Millennium Summit, during which we crafted a clear-cut common vision for the twenty-first century, a road map to confront the challenges of globalization: peace and security now facing new threats, development and international cooperation, the environment, pandemics and so forth. One year later the first challenge to this reassuring and ambitious edifice arose, the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. The international community reacted unanimously and immediately adopted a collective response. A few months later we witnessed the aggravation of tensions with the Iraq crisis, which severely tested the principle of collective security and moral authority of the United Nations, to the point that we doubted the rationale for and the survival of what should be, after all, our common home. Finally, and most recently, we have witnessed the failure of the Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in Cancún. This deadlock in defining a negotiating process to revive the Doha round places in jeopardy the growth prospects of the world economy which would otherwise benefit all people. This can also be interpreted as a new opportunity to marginalize the countries of the South. All of this shows that this present session is being held in a particularly worrisome context. These developments are dangerous for the management of international affairs that should be marked with a spirit of dialogue, consultation and openness. We must, therefore, return to the spirit of multilateralism that characterized the Millennium Summit. We must reaffirm, loud and clear, the role of the United Nations as a central axis of collective security and inspiration for the rules of international cooperation aimed at justice and equality. For this reason it is important to strengthen the role of our Organization and improve its effectiveness. The Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, has now presented a very edifying report in this connection and we very much encourage him to persevere along the path of reform and rationalization and to place the multilateral system at the core of the management of crises and the display of leadership in the world. Your election, Sir, to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly is, for us, a tremendous asset. It symbolizes the sovereign equality of all States, large and small, and is a way of paying tribute to your great qualities and your diplomatic experience. We are convinced that you will know how to skilfully guide our debate on multilateralism to a satisfying outcome, very much in keeping with the high expectations of the community of nations. This year, once again we see the challenges to peace and international security at the very core of our major preoccupations. Everyone remembers the attack of 19 August 2003 against the United Nations offices in Baghdad. The death of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and several dedicated servants of the United Nations, is still alive in our memories. In paying tribute to their courage and dedication, we must do everything within our power to ensure that their sacrifice was not made in vain and that the cause they served so heroically does indeed triumph in the interests of the Iraqi people and the noble ideas of the United Nations. We must therefore encourage the Security Council to return to its essential unity so that the international community, led by the moral authority of the United Nations, can help the Iraqi people to find peace, security and stability and reconstruct their country devastated by war and many years of embargo. Not far from Iraq, the international community is still confronted with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 14 This shows that the infernal cycle of violence can only lead to a dead end. The two parties must come to their senses and return to the vision set out in the road map, which provides for the creation of a Palestinian State that is independent, democratic and viable, living side by side with Israel and its other neighbours in an atmosphere of peace and security. The Security Council approved this vision in Security Council resolution 1397 (2002) and the two parties committed themselves to respecting the road map on 4 June 2003 at the outcome of the Aqaba Summit. We must now bring them back to the negotiating table, with no pre-conditions, and demand that they refrain from any measure or unilateral action that is incompatible with the goals of the road map. Still on the subject of peace and security, it seems to be necessary and essential to emphasize that we must refrain from conflating terrorism, religion or civilization as belonging to any geographical area or supporting any national liberation struggle. Just as we must be firm, demanding and united when confronting acts of unjustifiable blind violence, we must also be vigilant so as not to be tempted by convenience. In our relentless struggle against terrorism, it is important to give appropriate responses when it comes to the sovereignty of peoples, respect for human rights, social justice and combating poverty. We must also seriously analyse the causes that serve as the breeding ground or pretext for terrorism. This is also part of conflict prevention and, to some extent, the prevention of terrorism. This year we are celebrating the twenty-fifth anniversary of the first special session of the General Assembly on disarmament. It is regrettable to note that, since the end of the cold war, so little progress has been accomplished and today’s deadlock in the Conference on Disarmament is a tragic display of our failure. At a time when the international community is legitimately concerned about weapons of mass destruction that might fall into the hands of terrorists, it is important to remind all of the actors that they must abide by the multilateral agreements and scrupulously respect them. Within the context of disarmament activities, we welcome the holding, last July in New York, of the first Biennial Meeting of States to Consider the Implementation of the 2001 Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. My country hosted in Brazzaville, from 12 to 14 May 2003, a sub-regional seminar on the implementation in Central Africa of the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects and presented at that time a report reflecting Africa’s firm determination to eradicate this scourge. As part of its implementation of the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel landmines, from 9 to 10 September 2003, Congo destroyed its stock of landmines. During two public operations carried out with the support of Canada and the United Nations, our Government destroyed 5,220 landmines. We intend to continue with an operation to search out landmines in the southern part of our country that borders on Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This is to illustrate the degree of cooperation that prevails among the countries of Central Africa when it comes to questions of peace and security. Africa is seen today as the focal point for the challenges confronting humanity, in particular as regards armed conflict, underdevelopment and the proliferation of pandemics. But this is not all that Africa has to offer the rest of the world. Various courageous initiatives now show Africa’s determination to take its fate into its own hands: the adoption of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), the African Peer Review Mechanism and the Council for Peace and Security. The African Union Summit that was just held in Maputo, Mozambique, eloquently displays this attitude of ours. My delegation associates itself with the statement made on 24 September by His Excellency Mr. Joaquim Alberto Chissano, President of the Republic of Mozambique, on behalf of the African Union. The Acting President clearly informed the international community about the resolve of the African continent to overcome current obstacles to building a new Africa in the areas of peace, security, democracy, human rights, economic development and regional integration. It is precisely in this sprit that His Excellency Mr. Denis Sassou Nguesso, President of the Republic of Congo, put forward his thoughts in a statement entitled, “For a Pan-African Pact against Aggression” 15 at the summit in Maputo, which constitutes a contribution to preventive diplomacy that will help to spare the African peoples the horrors of fratricidal strife and enable them to devote themselves exclusively and usefully to development objectives and a code of conduct between African States, lending timely support to the framework outlined by the Peace and Security Council of the African Union. My country, which is the current acting President of the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS) and the Central African Economic and Monetary Community (CAEMC), takes such concerns to heart as it discharges its mandates in the management of various crises that are shaking our subregion. We have already had the opportunity to deplore the fact that Central Africa suffers from the paradox of being both one of the richest subregions on the continent and one of the weakest zones in terms of human development indices. All the current initiatives of the leaders of the subregion are geared towards the resolution of this paradox. Thus, during the past year, significant progress had been registered in the various countries that have experienced, or are experiencing, armed crises — Angola, Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Congo, the Central African Republic, Burundi and Chad. In the quest to resolve these crises, we have counted on the cooperation of diverse partners, especially the United Nations and African Union. Allow me to briefly touch on some of the situations that require particular attention from the international community. With respect to Angola, while we welcome the return of peace in that country, ravaged for nearly three decades by civil war, we wish to urge the international community to help the Angolan authorities in their efforts at reconstruction. We continue to support the intention of the Angolan Government to submit for consideration at the present session a draft resolution on international assistance for the reconstruction and economic development of Angola. We also welcome the positive developments under way in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, distinguished in particular by the establishment of transitional institutions and the deployment of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in Ituri. We urge the international community to continue its support for the pacification and reunification process under way in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and to further contribute substantively to the reconstruction programmes in place. I would like to reaffirm our steadfast wish to see this neighbouring and brotherly country find peace again, a guarantee for stability of the subregion. I am also duty-bound to draw the attention of the international community to the situation in the Central African Republic, which has been confronted for years with serious and persistent economic, social and security problems. I would like to recall here that alarmed by this ever-worsening situation, CAEMC has established an ad hoc committee on the Central African Republic, presided over by His Excellency El Hadj Omar Bongo, President of the Gabonese Republic. It has also deployed a peacekeeping force in that country. CAEMC’s involvement in the Central African Republic, which has received much encouragement, particularly from the Security Council, mainly aims at the reconciliation of the Central African people, the pacification of the country and the prompt restoration of constitutional order. The holding of a Central African dialogue fits precisely in the framework of the recommended measures. This country, which has suffered greatly these past years, truly needs assistance from the international community to regain peace, stability, economic growth and democracy. That is the meaning of the appeal made at Brazzaville on 17 May 2003 by the ECCAS Ministers at the meeting of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa. Still with respect to our subregion, I would like finally to stress in particular the crisis that raged in the Democratic Republic of Sâo Tomé and Pr'ncipe in July 2003. At that time, ECCAS, the African Union, the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries and Nigeria worked in perfect concert to re-establish the constitutional order shattered in this country on 16 July 2003. While we commend the contribution made by the United States and South Africa, we would like to appeal again for the entire international community to give substantial assistance to the Democratic Republic of Sâo Tomé and Pr'ncipe, particularly to the emergency programme that has just been established by the Government of this country. We must also follow with great interest developments in Burundi, where every step forward 16 must be supported and encouraged to make the process irreversible. To that end, the international community is urgently called upon to make good on the financial commitments made during the conferences in Paris and Geneva. The situations that I have just mentioned lead us to the relevant conclusions of the open Security Council meeting on 22 October 2002 on strengthening cooperation between the United Nations system and the Central African region in the maintenance of peace and security. At that meeting, we expressed our appreciation for the cooperation between our region and the United Nations while welcoming, inter alia, the work of the Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa. We welcomed the multi- country programme of demobilization and reintegration put forward by the World Bank. Since then, we welcomed the visit of the Security Council in June 2003 to the Great Lakes region and the multidisciplinary mission of the United Nations system, and we are eagerly awaiting its conclusions. These conclusions will allow us to meaningfully participate in the future public debates of the Security Council on our subregion, one year after the meeting that elaborated a comprehensive, integrated, determined and concerted approach to the problems of peace, security and development of Central Africa. Energized by that approach, we intend to participate in the international conference on peace, security, democracy and development in the Great Lakes region. We intend to seize this historic opportunity to exorcise the demons of hatred and violence and lay the foundation for peaceful coexistence among our peoples and nations, which share a common destiny. While reaffirming the central role that the Democratic Republic of the Congo has to play in that conference, I would like to stress that the Republic of Congo, my country, which is close to the Democratic Republic of the Congo in so many ways, would not understand if it had to attend as an observer at this crucial event. The same goes, by all accounts, for other neighbouring countries of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, such as Angola and the Central African Republic. The issues of peace, security and building national unity were at the core of the Congolese authorities’ concerns during the past year. It is in this framework that the 17 March 2003 agreement must be placed, thanks to which peace continues to reign throughout the entire territory. Having regained peace, we are seeking to build on it each day, particularly by implementing the programme of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants. We are also working towards the resettlement of internally displaced persons. It is not hard to fathom that these missions require considerable funding, which the Congo cannot provide alone. We would like to thank all our partners for their active solidarity. We must still meet the great challenges of reconstruction, economy recovery, poverty reduction and the fight against HIV/AIDS, all sectors for which national strategies have been adopted. To implement this vast project, which we have called “The New Hope”, we are mobilizing all the national forces capable of providing assistance to the State, including local government authorities, non-governmental organizations, civil society and the private sector. In that framework, we have conducted negotiations with our external partners with a view to benefiting from the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. All of these achievements can be implemented only in a world free from fear, as envisaged by the founders of our Organization, and as we believe today. This is why we wish to reiterate our faith and attachment to the United Nations, an irreplaceable framework and beacon of all hopes for peace for humanity, and which has never seemed more clearly necessary than today.  ﻿Ecuador, a country profoundly committed to peace, reaffirms its most categorical condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Terrorist violence can never be justified for any reason and must be fought with firmness, using all legal measures at the disposal of States to counter this global threat. The 15 action of terrorist organizations and networks respect no national or regional borders. The successful eradication of terrorism depends on international cooperation and the concerted action of States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. Since I assumed the presidency of my country, and now the presidency of the Andean Community, the issue of Colombia has been at the top of my agenda. My Government, on behalf of the Ecuadorian people, has expressed its concern at that conflict because we are linked to our neighbour Colombia by great ties of friendship and deep historical roots. Because of the serious threat that conflict poses for the entire region, at the summit of the Presidents of the Rio Group, held in Cusco in May of this year, I made the following proposal. I urged Secretary- General Kofi Annan to employ his good offices to give a decisive boost to the peace process in Colombia. I called on the guerrilla movements operating in that country to sign a ceasefire agreement and to join an open and transparent dialogue, accompanied by a timetable with definite deadlines to be discussed and approved by the parties, in order to reach a lasting and peaceful solution to the Colombian conflict. That proposal was enthusiastically embraced by all the presidents of the Rio Group. That unnecessary, fratricidal bloodshed is no longer a problem limited to Colombia or even the Andean nations. It is a conflict that increasingly threatens the peace and stability of the entire world. We must take care and act immediately before the monster becomes uncontrollable. Therefore, at this global forum, I ask for all free nations of the world not to remain passive but decisively to support the Secretary- General of the United Nations in the search for lasting peace in Colombia. The issue of external debt should cease to be treated as a purely economic matter or as cold statistics. It must be seriously examined for what it is, a genuine human and social tragedy resulting from the immense suffering it causes among innocent people. It is too heavy a burden, preventing the progress of poor but serious countries such as Ecuador, which manages its public expenditures with great austerity and fiscal discipline at a very great social cost, in order to comply with its international financial commitments. These poor but serious countries are making profound structural reforms to bring order to salary, labour and tax arrangements. These poor but serious countries are combating corruption, social injustice and impunity. They are working tirelessly to put an end to the privileges of a gilded bureaucracy and striving to modernize their public corporations. But it is not enough: their merciless external debt absorbs the larger part of those efforts and savings. We are not asking for gifts. We are people of honour, and we will continue to honour our obligations. We are only asking for the opportunity to grow, to become developed at a faster pace and to pay our debt, which otherwise could be perpetuated for eternity. How can we achieve the minimum standards for education, health, growth and social welfare that are contained in the manuals of the United Nations if my country, Ecuador, must divert more than 40 per cent of its budget to servicing its foreign debt? External debt must be dealt with urgently and seriously; the alarming figures in that respect make this clear. It is imperative that a comprehensive, historic and humanitarian agreement be reached among debtors and creditors alike to reduce the burden on the budgets of our countries, so as to increase the availability of funds for social investment, to overcome the obstacles and budget restrictions that are preventing us from moving forward with social infrastructure projects. We will continue to meet our external debt payments; we cannot speak of true democracy if we do not pay the social debt. This is a tragedy and a source of weakness for democracy in poor but seriously committed countries such as Ecuador. This reality undermines democracy and democratic stability. On the subject of migration, something important needs to be said. Migratory flows along natural survival lines cannot be halted by physical or legal barriers. In recent centuries, marked by colonialism, and during the first half of the twentieth century, marked by wars, millions of people left their homes and went elsewhere to seek refuge in new lands, among generous people. That is why they came to America, and America lovingly opened its arms to them. Let me say to the people of the First World: now that the flow is the other way around, now that your children and grandchildren are going elsewhere, we are wondering why you are not opening your doors to immigrants. I would ask: if history, with its mysterious determinism, is carrying them again to other lands, will 16 they able to cite humanitarian reasons, or the need for reciprocity, in order to be welcomed? On behalf of America, let me say that we will once again receive others. My Government, through our Foreign Ministry, is committed to preparing the groundwork and creating conducive conditions for the thousands of Ecuadorians who want to return home. They will be protected by broad-based programmes that serve returnees. With respect to those who decide to remain outside the country, we are endeavouring to secure temporary protected status for the undocumented, allowing them to lead a life in conditions of normalcy and dignity. My Government also is making tremendous efforts to secure capital and foreign investments in order to generate jobs and prevent our citizens from having to leave their country, while at the same time protecting family unity. I have the honour of presiding over a Government that is implementing a strategic plan that will allow Ecuador to achieve and consolidate sustained economic growth. One of the fundamental tasks of my Administration is the uprooting of corruption, because that phenomenon has been enemy number one of democracy, and therefore of development and prosperity, for many people in our region. The fight against corruption is priority number one for my Administration’s plan. That is what I said during my electoral campaign, and I am fulfilling my promise. A handful of people devoid of morals, taking advantage of political and bureaucratic opportunities, seized Government funds and bank deposits. Now, using their political connections, protected by prestigious, well-paid attorneys, and abusing the generosity of the countries giving them shelter, they are enjoying with impunity the money they stole from my country — a theft that destroyed not only our nation’s economy but also shattered illusions and crushed dreams and self-esteem, as well as the right to a life in conditions of dignity for millions of Ecuadorians. Therefore, from this rostrum of honour and freedom, of equality and democracy, I ask all nations the world over and the judicial systems of those countries where those people have taken shelter for their unconditional and immediate support in bringing about the extradition of individuals wanted by Ecuador’s judicial system, so that they can be tried fairly and transparently. I ask also for support in returning to Ecuador those ill-gotten funds. Within my country, 13 million Ecuadorians have mobilized to move forward and, under my leadership, have, in eight months, made spectacular strides, as reflected by economic indicators. We have managed to control inflation, ratcheting down inflation from 12.5 per cent to 7.3 per cent a year, with forecasts for next year of 4 per cent. The trade balance deficit has been reduced by 62 per cent when comparing the period January-July 2002 with the relevant period for this year. We signed an agreement with the International Monetary Fund that opened to us the doors to multinational credit organizations, and we have managed to open the nation to the world, with the result that foreign direct investment increased 70 per cent between January and July 2003 over the same period in 2002. Oil exports have grown by 25 per cent, and non-oil exports by 12 per cent. Confidence in our country is evident because the financial system is functioning more smoothly. Total deposits are steadily climbing, registering an increase of 6 per cent over the past six months. International monetary reserves recorded a 35 per cent increase. External public debt, which amounted to 82 per cent of gross domestic product in 1999, has been reduced by 41 per cent in 2003. Our country’s rating as a risk- fraught country has been significantly reduced. This is, without question, an achievement for my Administration, because, through this indicator, the international economic community as a whole is thus showing confidence in Ecuador. Ecuador has great energy potential, with remaining reserves amounting to some 1.5 billion barrels and in situ reserves amounting to approximately 8.9 billion barrels. Ecuador is opening itself to the world for investment in the energy sector. We are working on a variety of large-, medium- and small-scale hydroelectric projects to double our current energy potential. The current Administration is working for the future — not just for the period of my presidential term but for the next 50 years. The mining sector has been extensively studied in recent years by the world’s 17 major mining companies, which reached the determination that Ecuador has vast potential. Now that my country is regaining its economic stability, my Administration has turned its attention to social development. This is an Administration that will pay not only its external debt, but also the social debt — the one that has struck hardest at our own people. Ecuador is a country of many resources, natural and human. It is opening itself to the world, to foreign investment. Indeed, investment is on the rebound, because foreign capital flows into our nation during the period January-July 2003 grew by 189 per cent over the same period of the previous year. We need more investment in the oil, mining, hydroelectric, agro- industrial, and tourist sectors. Ecuador is a country with a touch of magic, with stunning natural panoramas, cultural diversity and varied customs. Located at the centre of the world, in north-west South America, Ecuador has natural treasures such as the Galapagos Islands, the exotic Amazon jungle and majestic volcanoes such as Chimborazo and Cotopaxi. Finally, let me say that Ecuador’s international policy is focused on working for sovereignty and is based on the interests of the people whom I have the honour to represent, in the framework of unswerving support for the rule of law. The future of global society cannot be separated from the well-being of each of the peoples of the world. If our global society is not just and equitable, if people are not free to fight for their legitimate rights and to realize their aspirations, there will be no peace and we will be unable to defeat terrorism or to eliminate poverty — the worst of human rights violations. ﻿It gives me great pleasure to extend to Julian Hunte warm congratulations on his election as President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I wish also to take this opportunity to commend his predecessor for his invaluable contribution to the success of the fifty-seventh session of the Assembly. Allow me also to extend my sincere appreciation to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the great effort he has been making to maintain the integrity of the United Nations in this difficult period in the history of the Organization. I wish also to commend the Secretary-General for his invaluable contribution in enhancing humanitarian assistance, fostering development cooperation and strengthening our esteemed Organization. I wish to preface my brief statement with sincere appreciation for all those who have responded with generous support to assist the people of Ethiopia to overcome the consequences of a devastating and extended drought, which put at risk more than a dozen million of our compatriots. The responses from the United Nations, the United States, the European Union and many others were indeed as timely, as they were generous. The people of Ethiopia are grateful for this demonstration of solidarity. We in Ethiopia are the first to realize that this state of affairs in our country cannot continue. Our people cannot be allowed to be vulnerable to famine every other year because of drought. It is a must for us, and a matter of national survival and dignity, to ensure food security for our people in the shortest time possible. But this can be done only when our people are given respite for peace and are able to fully concentrate on economic development. We have come to be convinced that, for our strategy on economic development and good governance to succeed, we need to enhance our capacity in human resources development and institution-building. It is imperative for us to focus on capacity-building and to make it a priority. It has also been found critical that we expand further our decentralization exercise, with a view to empowering our people at the grass-roots level. We have embarked on a fundamental shift in the country’s foreign and national security policy, focusing on the internal needs of our country and on ensuring its viability, which can be realized only through rapid economic development and the nurturing of democratic governance. Like many countries in our continent, and perhaps more than most, Ethiopia has suffered at length as the result of conflict and war and its consequences. The internal causes of the absence of peace and tranquillity in our country were removed, once and for all, when the military dictatorship came to an end and when we embarked upon laying the foundations for a democratic and just society 12 years ago. Until 1998, Ethiopia made great progress that, if continued, would certainly have made us far more prepared to withstand the consequences of the extended drought last year and the year before. But the Assembly recalls what befell Ethiopia in 1998. The strong momentum we had managed to create for rapid economic development was pushed off track by the aggression we suffered in May 1998, which took us two years to reverse. Having reversed the aggression, Ethiopia showed its unflinching respect for the principles of international law by taking the lead in 13 ensuring the signing of the Algiers Agreement. With little hesitation, Ethiopia withdrew from territory that it had seized in a counteroffensive to expel the invading army from its territory and to make room for the Temporary Security Zone, to which the United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE) was subsequently deployed. We have now come to the point at which the United Nations will have to take greater interest to ensure that the hopes and promises engendered by the Algiers Agreement are fulfilled. The Agreement was designed to lead to durable peace between Ethiopia and Eritrea. It was not meant to punish the victim of aggression. This is why Ethiopia has felt it necessary to call on the Security Council to help us achieve the hopes implicit in the Algiers Agreement. Ethiopia is committed always to being a peaceful country. We have always been second to none in our commitment to the principles of international law. This will remain one of our people’s distinguishing features. This is a tradition we will continue to maintain and foster. This is also how we intend to tackle the present complications in the implementation of the Algiers Agreement. Few regions of the world have suffered as a result of conflict as much as the Horn of Africa. We in Ethiopia are committed, along with others in our subregion, to change this existing reality. With the progress that continues to be made in the peace process to resolve the conflict in Somalia, we are today more hopeful than ever that the long saga of the Somali people might be about to end. I wish to seize this opportunity to thank the European Union, the United Nations and others for the invaluable assistance that they have continued to give to ensure the success of the peace process in Somalia. Little progress could have been made without that support. The frontline countries of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) will need even greater support for the success of the peace process in Somalia, which is now entering into its most critical phase. We are also deeply encouraged by the peace process aimed at resolving the conflict in the Sudan, which has also entered into a very delicate phase. The parties deserve to be commended for the great resolve they are demonstrating in addressing the common challenges they are facing. The Framework Agreement on Security Arrangements for the Interim Period, signed on 25 September between the two parties, represents a major breakthrough, which will no doubt help lay the foundation for more progress in other areas. We would like to thank all those, the United States Government in particular, who have made contributions to the progress that has been made in the peace process in the Sudan. These developments show that the situation in the Horn of Africa is not hopeless. The challenges we are facing are nonetheless formidable. We in Ethiopia are determined to contribute more than our share to assist in the regeneration of our subregion, which has also been the target of international terrorism. The achievement of peace and national reconciliation in Somalia is extremely critical in the fight against this scourge as well. That is why all those who are willing to join in the fight against international terrorism should be automatically supportive of the peace effort by IGAD in Somalia. As a country from a region that has lost much and has stayed far behind in development because of the absence of peace, Ethiopia feels solidarity with all the peoples of the Middle East who yearn for peace, security and justice. As a people very close to the Middle East, Ethiopia has close affinity with the people of Palestine and with the people of Israel. It is our hope that the suffering of both will end soon and that the hope held up by the road map will be realized. The hope we have for economic development and the prospect we see for peace in our subregion can hardly be made a reality without international conditions that are conducive to countries such as Ethiopia to make progress. In this respect, the general situation is not very promising. Under the circumstances, without greater commitment by the developed world to the rapid economic development of Africa, countries such as Ethiopia will hardly be in a position to meet the Millennium Development Goals. There is, without any doubt, an urgent need for increasing the quality and the level of assistance by the developed world to Africa. There is a critical need for addressing the problems surrounding issues related to subsidies and the access of products from African countries to developed countries’ markets. International solidarity and the promotion of our 14 mutual interests make it imperative that a lasting solution is found to the debt burden. Africa is passing through a very difficult and critical period. The HIV/AIDS pandemic is wreaking havoc in the continent. As is now widely acknowledged, this is not simply a health crisis. The pandemic is also an economic, security and social crisis with broad and potentially devastating implications. Hence, this is a challenge not only for Africa, but also for the entire world. But Africa is not asking to be rescued by the international community without discharging its own responsibilities. What Africa is asking is to be given a break, as many have been given in the past at some point in their history. In fact, what is involved here are mutual obligations. This is the overriding principle upon which the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) is based. It is Ethiopia’s hope that NEPAD will be taken more seriously as a framework for expanding the cooperation between Africa and the developed countries in the interest of ensuring success in Africa’s fight for prosperity and development, and for a safe, peaceful and truly globalized world. The United Nations is facing today one of the most difficult periods in its close to 60 years of history. Its legitimacy and credibility is being increasingly questioned. Many have also questioned its effectiveness. Not a few have also wondered on many occasions whether they have always been assisted by the Organization in nurturing and fostering peace. My own country has also been disappointed in the past. But we have never abandoned hope in the United Nations or in multilateralism, because we know, at the end of the day, that the United Nations is indispensable. That is why Ethiopia will always be committed to the United Nations and its ideals. It is our hope that all Member States, big and small, will be fully committed to the United Nations and its ideals and carry out the long overdue reform of the Organization with a view to making it more effective.  ﻿My congratulations go to you, Sir, and to the people of Saint Lucia on your election, together with my thanks to your predecessor, Mr. Kavan, for his work over the past year. You have our full support and best wishes in all your efforts to promote the interests of the members of this Assembly. May I couple these greetings with my great appreciation to our Secretary-General and his staff. We are very grateful indeed for their dedication and service during one of the most difficult years in United Nations history. In particular, I wish to add once more the deepest sympathy of the Government and people of Brunei Darussalam to the families of Sergio Vieira de Mello and of all who lost loved ones, colleagues and friends in the attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. His Excellency and his staff were our public servants, our representatives and our people. The attack on them was an attack on us all. As such, we condemn it and all other acts of terrorism. When Brunei Darussalam had the honour of becoming a Member of this Organization, we committed ourselves to two principles. The first was nationhood and all that this implies in terms of the rule of international law and the procedures that govern the affairs of this Assembly. The second was multilateral decision-making and, in turn, all that this also implies — respect for fellow members, sensitivity to their deep concerns and the need for dialogue and consultation as equal partners in the conduct of international affairs, no matter how long and how frustrating the process involved may be. We continue to maintain our belief in these principles in spite of many disappointments in the past year, both here in the United Nations and earlier this month at the World Trade Organization. We feel that they are the only basis upon which international affairs can be conducted fairly. They apply to all the great political and economic organizations of which we are members and we especially look to the United Nations to uphold them. By this token, the United Nations is whatever we ourselves make it. We form the largest coalition in history and we share responsibility for its successes and its failures. Among those is our failure to bring in the changes that are necessary if we are to evolve with the times in which we live. Since 1992, this Assembly has been debating reform. It has the support of a large majority here, including all members of the Non-Aligned Movement. The results of our failure to build on this support can now be clearly seen. Our Security Council has been gravely divided and the past year has left a legacy of bitterness. The consequences for the ordinary people we represent — the people of developing nations year after year, the people of Iraq for the past 10 years or more, and the citizens of Palestine for over half a century — have been ever more disastrous. In all this time, Members have been well aware that decision-making at the United Nations needs to be more inclusive and genuinely multilateral. On many occasions, they have expressed the desire that the Organization reflect today’s world rather than the world of half a century ago. They wish to feel truly part of the decisions it makes. As it operates now, however, many observers feel that the actual Members of this Organization are too weak to act effectively in solving the great affairs of the day. It is claimed that international affairs are now beyond the control of individual nations. They are global — global finance; global economics; global development; global poverty; global crime; and, of course, global terrorism. Consequently, some voices declare that an Assembly of individual nations, many of them small and still developing, has no power to address such matters. That is a depressing scenario and, of course, none of us here really wants to believe it, but it does have one merit. It forces us to examine what the United Nations can actually do most effectively and what it can realistically achieve. The reply from too many of our people today would be, we fear: not much. This presents a powerful case for reform. I therefore feel that we must frankly acknowledge our part in the feelings of hopelessness and frustration that are being voiced by ordinary people and indeed by many Governments. At present, restoring belief in the United Nations ability to act on their behalf may be our most important immediate task. On the one hand, the great world institutions are technically multilateral. They are run by the Governments of the world. Yet, in 21 fact, many of these Governments feel excluded from the most important decisions. Many interested parties feel that they are also on the outside. Multilateralism, in other words, appears to have its limits. Beyond them, it seems, the stronger nations take over. This basic division, we hope, can be brought to an end. That is why we were so pleased to hear our Secretary-General emphasize the need for reform in his address last week. We congratulate the Secretary- General on the structural reforms he has overseen. We also thank him for the many times he has kept us in touch with his thinking and that of his staff and we thank him for the hopes he has continued to express about the future of our world Organization. We still share his optimism. Nevertheless, that feeling can be maintained only if agreement on reform of the whole United Nations system is a real possibility. We accept that the task of bringing about this kind of overall change is extremely hard. The reports of your own Working Group, Mr. President, show a difficult pattern emerging over the past 10 years. There are more and more proposals and basic approaches continually diverge. Even though we largely share the same objectives, we remain divided on the means to achieve them. The divisions we have seen this year, however, suggest that we cannot keep postponing change. They offer a test of whether the United Nations is indeed capable of evolving. That test must be passed, so we continue to support work on Security Council reform and offer our strong encouragement to the Secretary- General in the proposals he outlined last week. In the face of today’s problems, the United Nations must continue to offer powerful reasons for optimism about the future. We believe that this calls for a determined and united effort to address the root causes of the anger of all who feel unjustly treated. To do this, the United Nations as a whole must be a genuine partnership between nations. It must stand for shared idealism and a shared sense of human justice. That is what no other body can do. That is what the work of Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues was dedicated to. In their memory, and in that of all who have given their lives to this Organization, we all need to do a lot better at working together than we have over the past year. ﻿It gives me great pleasure to extend to you, Sir, our sincere congratulations on your election to the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Allow me to wish you and the members of the Bureau every possible success. I should also like to express our thanks and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, President of the fifty-seventh session, for his great efforts in conducting the work of the General Assembly. It also gives me pleasure to recognize Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who deserves our sincere thanks, respect and admiration for his tireless efforts. Today, the world is experiencing a difficult, critical and highly complex phase in international relations, marked by political and strategic changes affecting the elements and objectives of those relations. This is the result of the emergence of a new, complicated and multifaceted set of problems and acute regional and international crises, whose root causes we must deal with promptly and in a serious manner. Moreover, we must prevent such crises from worsening and spreading. We must therefore strive to strengthen the role of the United Nations, enhance its institutions and provide it with the essential resources so it can fulfil its mission throughout the world. First, it is imperative that we mobilize the political will needed to enable the Organization to shoulder its responsibilities and carry out its duties. That is particularly important for the permanent members of the Security Council because those countries bear the primary responsibility for achieving that goal, which will enable the Organization to perform its functions in a genuinely democratic spirit, reflecting the new international conditions and the interests and aspirations of all peoples of the world without exclusion or preference. In that context, we underline the need to reach agreement on a new formula for the composition of the Security Council and to modernize its working methods, as it is the international body charged with the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. The Council’s current composition, working methods and decision-making process do not respond to the needs of the international community or give Member States an opportunity to speak on the vital and critical issues that affect us all. In the State of Qatar, we were shocked and saddened by the horrific attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. That attack claimed the lives of many innocent victims: the United Nations staff members who were carrying out their humanitarian mission, foremost among them the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and many Iraqis. That heinous act of terrorism illustrates in our view the nature of the challenges and the seriousness of the threats besetting the work of the United Nations and international humanitarian organizations in Iraq and elsewhere. We also strongly condemn the terrorist act targeting the United Nations headquarters in Iraq earlier this week. The difficult and tragic circumstances now prevailing in the brotherly country of Iraq compel us to cooperate in order to help the Iraqi people overcome that situation and its consequences. I must underline once again the fundamental principles underlying our position with respect to the Iraqi crisis and the means necessary to deal with it. We have consistently affirmed our commitment to the territorial integrity, national unity and sovereignty of Iraq and to the right of Iraqis to self-determination, to the restoration of their independence and sovereignty and to the reconstruction of their homeland, as well as to their right to live in dignity and freedom in their own land. In that context, we look forward to the success of the international efforts to strengthen security and stability in Iraq. We call upon the coalition forces to 10 achieve that essential objective and to intensify coordination with the competent international bodies and institutions in order to pave the way for the country’s return to normalcy. We call upon the coalition forces to allow the Iraqi people, of all factions and political trends, to exercise their legitimate right to choose their own political leadership through free, democratic elections, giving expression to their aspirations, hopes and wishes. In that regard, we also welcome the establishment of the Interim Governing Council and the interim Iraqi Government that emerged from it; they mark an important positive step, and we hope that they will contribute to achieving the desired transition towards consolidated democracy in the country and the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Iraqi State institutions. That should be accomplished by drafting a new constitution, holding free democratic elections, putting an early end to the occupation through a specific timetable and allowing Iraq to reclaim its rightful position in the region and in the larger international community. We urge the United Nations to play an effective, essential role in helping Iraq achieve those objectives. Moreover, the international community is urgently called upon to help in Iraq’s reconstruction and to meet the Iraqi people’s needs in various areas in order to build a new Iraq of democracy, equality and respect for human rights. With regard to developing Iraq’s infrastructure of higher education, it is noteworthy that the consort of His Royal Highness the Emir of the State of Qatar, Her Royal Highness Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser Al-Misnad, Special Envoy for Basic and Higher Education + 5 of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), launched a lofty initiative in a statement before the World Conference on Higher Education, held in Paris at UNESCO headquarters. The initiative called for the establishment of an international fund for Iraqi higher education, with the objective of providing both immediate and long-term assistance for the rehabilitation of higher education in brotherly Iraq. The State of Qatar has made the first contribution to the fund, in the amount of $15 million. My country has also been participating in international efforts to rebuild Iraq. It has developed a special programme that includes the building of hospitals and educational and residential units. In addition, we have a special programme in Afghanistan that assists in the rebuilding of that country; the programme’s cost has amounted to $62 million thus far. The Arab-Israeli conflict and the question of Palestine are at the top of the list of the conflicts that need concerted action in order to achieve a just, final and comprehensive solution, particularly in the light of the continuation and acceleration of the bloody confrontation that has raged between the Palestinian people and Israeli occupation forces for so many years. It must be noted that we in the State of Qatar have welcomed the road map. We expressed our support for the Quartet’s efforts to have both sides begin implementing the various stages of the road map, in keeping with the vision articulated by Mr. George Bush, President of the United States, as a basis for the final solution of establishing two States living side by side. We did so despite the many difficulties, obstacles and setbacks encountered by those efforts in the past few weeks. We must also firmly stress that implementation of the road map cannot be undertaken by only one side — the Palestinian people. It requires that the Israeli side also fulfil its obligations and take the necessary actions in that regard. All of the aforementioned requires that the international community and the members of the Quartet — particularly the United States of America — intervene, intensify their efforts and increase their pressure on the Israeli Government so that it will do its part, in return for the Palestinians’ commitment to do theirs. Thus, Israeli occupation forces must refrain from carrying out assassinations, must lift the siege that they have imposed on Palestinian territories, enable the Palestinians to live in security, peace and dignity on their own land and to move freely in their own areas, put an end to the policies of starvation, humiliation and house demolition, and cease construction of the buffer wall currently being built by the Israeli authorities. In that connection, I cannot fail to note the positive gesture that we witnessed a few days ago by the Libyan Government’s closing of the Lockerbie file, an outcome that was achieved in cooperation with the other parties concerned and in the context of United Nations institutions. We should also note the positive response of the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom and France to that gesture, which bore fruit and ultimately led to the conclusion of an agreement. The phenomena of terrorism and extremism continue to be among the most important challenges facing the world. As we express our total rejection and condemnation of those subversive phenomena — in all their forms and manifestations, and regardless of their sources or motivations — we reaffirm that we stand by the side of the international community and that we support whatever efforts and measures are required to eliminate terrorism and to strengthen the foundations of security and stability. Democracy is an expression of responsible participation in political decision-making. It involves the establishment of State institutions and adherence to the rule of law within the State; it provides for accountability and for assessment of the performance of governmental institutions; it ensures good governance and safeguards the rights of citizens. As such, it is the best way to achieve the priorities of national development and the objectives of modernization and reform, to which our peoples and societies aspire. On the basis of those principles, the State of Qatar recently conducted a referendum on a political Constitution that gives women the right to political participation, both as voters and as candidates for Parliament, which will be elected through the ballot box for the first time. The Constitution also governs the relationship between the Government and the people and provides for the separation of the three branches of government. With regard to human rights, an independent human rights commission has been established in the State of Qatar. The commission submits its recommendations to competent State authorities with a view to developing and improving civil liberties. As promoting awareness of civil rights requires that we improve education and upgrade its standards — as well as expanding it to include all segments of society — we have restructured our educational system. Moreover, a number of well- known universities based in developed countries have set up branches in the State of Qatar. In conclusion, the fulfilment of our aspirations lies in affirming the role of the United Nations, in enhancing its position and in maximizing its potential. It is through the Organization that we hope to establish international relations on the basis of understanding, cooperation and common interests. And it is through the United Nations that we hope one day to succeed in settling crises and disputes; eliminating threats of violence, the use of force and terrorism; and ending the wasting of resources and energies on wars and conflicts, directing them instead to the service of development, progress and prosperity. Similarly, we aspire to a new world built on the principles of justice, equality, liberty, democracy and peaceful coexistence among all the world’s peoples, nations and cultures. That is an aspiration that our peoples, our youth and our future generations fully deserve. It is an aspiration to which we are wedded and which we cherish, because that vision occupies the highest priority in building the world of the future: the world that we all seek and desire. It is a world that we hope one day to attain as an international community — as one family living together on this planet, God willing.  ﻿The United Nations is at a crossroads. The fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly is taking place at a critical time in the history of the Organization. However, that moment could also be decisive for the future of the Organization. Recent developments on the international scene represent a call to action that compels us to review its organization and rules so that it may serve all nations. Your election, Mr. President, to the presidency of the principal body of the United Nations will contribute to the achievement of those objectives. I would also like to pay tribute to Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan for his dedication to the cause of international peace and security and for his ongoing desire to achieve the common good of mankind. International peace and security continue to be dangerously precarious as internal conflicts and confrontations between States proliferate in many regions of the world. We believe that the refusal to 6 implement obligations imposed upon States under international law and the violation of the provisions of the Charter are two areas of grave concern to us. Never since its creation has the Organization been confronted with so many situations and divergent views seriously threatening the attainment of its goals. Unity and cohesion among the members of the Security Council are essential in order to strengthen the credibility of the United Nations and the confidence of Member States and to ensure that organ's effectiveness, as it is the organ with primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Let me mention the struggle against terrorism, which no longer hesitates to attack our Organization. On this issue, Madagascar is truly at one with the international community in its struggle against that scourge. Accordingly, we have ratified the 12 existing international conventions to combat terrorism. We take this opportunity to pay heartfelt tribute to the late Sergio Vieira de Mello, our Representative in Iraq. The creativity and courage of our Secretary- General in shouldering his responsibilities and commitments to peace and security, in a spirit of solidarity, deserve the support of all. We endorse the recommendations contained in his report aimed at strengthening the United Nations. We hope to see changes in our Organization that would place greater emphasis on the importance of the General Assembly as the principal deliberative and decision-making organ and on rendering the Security Council more representative and more transparent. Such reforms are necessary in order to protect the sovereignty of smaller nations. They are indispensable, for the common interests of the peoples of the world should have no platform other than the General Assembly. We support the proposals made by Mr. Couchepin, President of the Swiss Federation, to forge a new vision of security by increasingly involving individuals in the deliberative process. A strong United Nations will be able to find solutions for integrating economic and social questions into the framework of the peace and security of peoples. The economic and social situation in the world remains a source of great concern. The beneficial impact of global economic growth has circumvented our island, as it has done with other countries in Africa. In the course of this past decade, major United Nations conferences have pinpointed strategies and established objectives to achieve sustainable human development. But we still need to mobilize the necessary resources to implement, together, the declarations we all adopted declarations which kindled so much hope in our peoples, who are languishing in dire poverty. The Millennium Declaration set deadlines for a number of common objectives for all Member States. Such goals are achievable, but they remain to be attained. The new form of international cooperation based on partnerships between the public and private sectors offers us this opportunity, particularly since this is a mutually advantageous relationship. The Economic and Social Council, in the Declaration it adopted on 2 July last, emphasizes the importance of partnerships at the national and international levels with a view to promoting cooperation among various sectors. The Economic and Social Council solemnly committed itself to facilitating and supporting the creation of alliances between Governments, donors, non-governmental organizations, civil society, decentralized communities and the private sector in order to promote integrated rural development. Our country is very pleased at having been elected to preside over the United Nations Public- Private Alliance for Rural Development and at having been chosen as the first pilot country. Madagascar, like most African countries, has not benefited from the world economic expansion. More than 70 per cent of the population of Madagascar still lives below the poverty line. Fifty per cent of the population has no access to drinking water, and, as a result, 50,000 children die annually. I am not going to pass judgement here, but I an convinced that a fundamental dilemma exists: the past does not loom as large in other parts of the world as it does in Africa. In Africa, the past is part and parcel of the structure of society and of people's mindsets. At the same time, we are confronted with the challenges of the policies, values, economic trends and technology of the twenty-first century. Africa is suffering from major gaps in this respect, more than other continents. To bridge such gaps is not an easy process. Whatever the case may be, Africa must take up the challenges of the future and undertake the 7 implementation of good governance and of a rapid and sustainable economic development. Today's Madagascar is a different country. It is aiming to establish a true democracy based on the rule of law and on respect for international law. Good governance, the rule of law, the combat against corruption, decentralization, participation of the population and the support of the private sector are its pillars. Restoring the confidence of economic players, establishing conducive and secure conditions for business and sharing responsibilities are key, with the State playing the role of facilitator. These are the main underpinnings of our economic activities. Let us not forget that the key to success is the right approach. In order to encourage investments, various laws have been enacted in order to reduce import taxes and duties on capital goods. At present foreign investors can own real estate. Furthermore, agreements to protect investments have been signed or are being prepared. We are extremely grateful for the efforts undertaken by national and international donors. Personally speaking, I know that it is not easy to collect the necessary funds for poor countries when the world economy itself is showing signs of weakness. I am convinced that the efforts of African countries designed to improve their cooperation in the context of the African Union, the New Partnership for Africa's Development, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the Southern African Development Community (SADC), the Indian Ocean Rim and other organizations will lead to the expected results. But this is not enough. Madagascar is opening up, and I dare to hope that other countries will also follow suit. But the world itself is not opening up, as was seen at Cancun. Why then can we not use as an example the European expansion process? This may be difficult and costly, but the outcome is promising and the procedures are already known. Will the international community and the African countries find a common vision for the future of Africa? Personally, I believe that it is high time that the major Powers took steps towards a more equitable partnership. We receive credits, grants, experts and programmes, but what do we read in the international press every day? That Africa is a forgotten continent. Unfortunately, this is true. We are far away from the strategic spheres of the think tanks, of the heads of State of the major Powers, and of the chief executive officers of large corporations. In other words, Africa remains the victim of marginalization. Does the international community have confidence in the future of Africa? Is it not true that it is urgent to develop a different outlook for our continent? We have this confidence. Our objectives are clear, but our capacities are still low. We need assistance in the area of capacity enhancement in order to attain the objectives we have set for ourselves. We are ready to work tirelessly; we are ready for change, ready for openness. However, we would like to have more support, greater openness and especially a different outlook and a new vision for our own continent in this concert of nations. ﻿I have the honour to address the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly on behalf of the European Union, over which Italy presides until 31 December 2003. The associated countries, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, the Slovak Republic and Slovenia, align themselves with this statement. On this occasion, I cannot forget the sacrifice of Sergio Vieira de Mello and the other United Nations officials who recently fell victim to blind, indiscriminate hatred in Baghdad. Allow me also to pay a tribute to the memory of the Foreign Minister of Sweden, Anna Lindh, the victim of a brutal act of violence. In their memory and in the memory of all those who gave their lives in the service of freedom, democracy and human rights, the European Union pays a heartfelt tribute. Two weeks ago, we commemorated the second anniversary of 11 September. The European Union remembers with great sorrow the victims of those attacks, when the horror of terrorism struck this city, the United States and the world. The European Union welcomes the Secretary- General's recent report on the implementation of the development goals indicated in the United Nations Millennium Declaration and its conclusions. We share his view that the multilateral institutions should be 32 updated and strengthened, and we are ready to contribute actively to the goal of building an international order based on effective multilateral institutions and within the fundamental framework of the Charter. We are all convinced that two of the greatest threats to peace and security today are terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The European Union condemns all acts of terrorism, which are threats to democracy, human rights and economic and social development. We must be firm in our determination to destroy this virus and free present and future generations from its attacks. Efforts to combat terrorism must respect human rights and the fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and humanitarian law. In this struggle, we are working in close collaboration with and give our full support to the United Nations. It is a battle that must be conducted for the sake of freedom and democracy the universal values enshrined in the Charter, which should be deeply rooted in the lives of all the peoples of this globalized world. We must show the same commitment to stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their vectors. We cannot shirk our responsibilities. The European Union has doubled its efforts to put an end to this threat to international peace and security. After having recently agreed to an action plan, we are now busy with its implementation. Universal subscription to the main multilateral agreements is at the heart of the European Union's policies. World peace and security are indivisible. The peoples of Europe are well aware of the need to address both the military and the humanitarian aspects of the North Korean situation. The European Union is closely watching the six-party talks aimed at resolving the current crisis relative to North Korea's nuclear programme. The European Union sends a firm appeal to North Korea to completely dismantle its nuclear programme in a prompt transparent, verifiable and irreversible manner, in compliance with the obligations deriving from international non-proliferation agreements. The European Union reiterates its request to India and Pakistan to adhere to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to act in compliance with Security Council resolution 1172 (1998). We forcefully encourage India and Pakistan to pursue a process of political dialogue that will lead to an agreement that is satisfactory to all the parties on all the controversial points, including Kashmir: a problem that cannot be resolved through violence or terrorism. The European Union expresses its growing concern over the development of the Iranian nuclear programme and the risks of proliferation that it involves. We reiterate our expectation that Iran will demonstrate accelerated cooperation and full transparency with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) by acceding to its requests. Urgent and unconditional acceptance, signature and the implementation of an IAEA additional protocol on safeguards are of the utmost importance. The international community would consider it a sign of Iran's commitment to the non-proliferation framework and a step toward the desired reforms. The non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a priority. It requires constant political pressure and the use of every political and diplomatic instrument available as the first line of defence. We cannot allow weapons of mass destruction to end up in the hands of terrorists or regimes that represent a threat to world peace. In that context, another grave danger is represented by the increasing spread of light and portable weapons and by the expansion of armed organized violence, whose toll in human lives has begun to exceed the lives lost in wars. With regard to non-proliferation, the European Union is firmly committed to supporting the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, in pursuit of the following common objectives: strengthening international agreements; increasing support for the monitoring agencies; and intensifying controls over illegal trafficking. Finally, should all political and diplomatic measures fail, recourse to coercive measures provided for by the Charter cannot be ruled out. However, recourse to force can be avoided if all the instruments of international law, including human rights safeguards, come to prevail in all their effects. We are all persuaded that that is the proper thing to do. To that end, the European Union considers the International Criminal Court a new instrument with 33 great powers of deterrence and reiterates its full support for the Court and its universalization. The EU is and will always remain committed to the promotion and protection of all human rights and all fundamental freedoms. In that context, we reiterate our strong support for achieving universal abolition of the death penalty. In recent years, important progress has been made in that direction, thanks in part to civil society. Abolition is our primary goal. Where capital punishment continues to exist, however, we are requesting that its application be impeded through a general moratorium on executions. Conflict prevention and crisis management are essential components of the EU's contribution to safeguarding international peace and security. More than 40,000 men and women of the European Union are currently deployed on United Nations-led or -authorized peace operations in the world. The Union is directly involved in missions in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and, until a few days ago, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where it demonstrated its will to contribute to the international community's efforts to restore peace and stability in Africa, including by military means. In light of this concrete commitment, the European Union reaffirms its support for reforming and strengthening United Nations peacekeeping activities. The decision by the Council of the European Union to strengthen cooperation between the European Union and the United Nations in the area of crisis management reaffirms the Union's strategic relations with the Organization. The Union is now drafting guidelines on the protection of civilians in Union-led peacekeeping operations that will fully reflect United Nations principles. Democracy is the only system of government that can fully guarantee respect for human rights while fostering development, prosperity and peace. The European Union plans to increase cooperation with countries that share the values of freedom and democracy. In a spirit of openness towards the entire international community, the European Union states its willingness to give support to all States that intend to comply with those principles. The European Union continues to consider its relations with Africa a priority and recalls the common commitment to strengthen this dialogue. The European Union has expressed a special interest in strengthening African peacekeeping and conflict-resolution capacities, and has also targeted its initiatives in those fields on Africa. We are committed to supporting the efforts of the African Union to establish a regional security mechanism. The European Union will continue to work for inter-African peace and will support the efforts of African States to end the many conflicts that afflict the continent. Stable conditions for peace cannot be created, however, without a strategy to eradicate the causes of poverty and the social exclusion that fuel so many conflicts in Africa and other regions of the world. On the long road towards managing globalization and spreading its benefits to all, Europe will remain firmly committed to Africa, and the European Union's privileged partnership with African countries shall continue. In this framework, we reiterate our support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development and for the hopes that it represents for African development. The European Union's special commitment to Africa should also be seen in the framework of the Millennium Development Goals, primarily designed to eradicate poverty, hunger, disease, social and gender inequality and environmental degradation. In this regard, we reaffirm our commitment to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria with a view to eradicating them. The European Union expresses its deep regret over the failure to achieve substantial progress at the Cancun Conference organized by the World Trade Organization (WTO), especially with regard to agricultural products. We remain convinced that increased liberalization of world trade, together with development cooperation activities, can play a crucial role in achieving the Millennium Development Goals for a better world. This is why the European Union believes that it is important to continue the negotiations in the WTO framework with the determination and flexibility needed to honour the commitments enshrined in the Doha Development Agenda. The European Union has made a financial commitment, in line with the Monterrey objectives, to increase official development assistance to 0.39 per cent of gross national product by 2006. 34 Our commitment does not stop at financial contributions. We also intend to join our development partners in a process that integrates the fight against poverty and disease with progress in the field of safeguarding human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance and environmental protection. The protection of our environment, including through implementing the commitments undertaken by signing the Kyoto Protocol, is the benchmark of our ability to foster sustainable development that reconciles the demands of economic and social progress with the need to protect natural resources. Those two goals are not alternatives but rather the pillars of the Johannesburg Declaration. The European Union appreciates the progress made since the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly following the presentation of the Secretary- General's report on reform, Strengthening of the United Nations: an agenda for further change' (A/57/387 and Corr.1). It continues to support the Secretary-General's efforts to implement the reforms needed to bring about efficient management capable of achieving the objectives established for the United Nations by the international community. We will work for the adoption of a budget plan for the 2004-2005 biennium that supports the implementation of the Millennium Declaration and the reform process begun during the Assembly's fifty-seventh session. Safeguarding international peace and security requires a strong commitment to address regional conflicts. A lack of such a commitment could entail increased destabilization, to the detriment of the entire international community. In the Middle East, the European Union is deeply concerned by the deterioration of relations between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority and reiterates its strong support for the road map, the only hope for lasting peace and for paving the way towards stability and development in the region. The European Union will lend its efforts to this end within the Quartet. To implement the road map, it is also important that the European Union and the Group of Eight countries have a specific and generous commitment to a plan for the comprehensive economic reconstruction of the area. Both Israel and the Palestinian Authority must act urgently to implement the commitments contained in the road map. In Iraq, the European Union has welcomed the end of Saddam Hussain's regime, whose power was built on fear and the violation of human rights. The formation of the Iraqi Governing Council was the first major step towards a representative government of the Iraqi people. The European Union stresses the importance of the restoration of Iraqi sovereignty and the establishment of a fully representative Iraqi Government through democratic elections. The United Nations has a vital role in this process. The upcoming donors conference in Madrid provides a welcome opportunity for all those who share our concern for Iraq's future to make a positive contribution to the political and economic regeneration of Iraq. We recognize that, for the reconstruction process to be successful, it will need to be accompanied by improvements in the security situation. In Afghanistan, the European Union wishes to express its full appreciation for the work done by the United Nations within the framework of the Bonn process. We will continue to assure our support for the process of democratization also through assistance to the reconstruction of the country. The European Union underlines the importance of an effective reform in the area of security as the basis for lasting security and stability in Afghanistan and throughout the region. The preparations for the 2004 elections to choose a government and parliament that are representative of all components of Afghan society are of primary importance. In accordance with the conclusions of the European Council of Thessaloniki, the European Union will continue to work tirelessly in support of the Secretary-General's efforts to achieve a comprehensive, just, viable and functional solution to the Cyprus problem, consistent with the relevant Security Council resolutions. Relations between the countries of Europe and Latin America are rooted in history and provide the basis for intense collaboration and for the European Union's strong interest in the region. The European Union is committed to further improving the overall arrangements of its relations with the countries of Central and South America. Lastly, the European Union will continue to support the processes of stabilization, democratization and development in the western Balkans. At the 35 European Union-Balkan Summit in Thessaloniki, the European Union reaffirmed its full consensus on the future European perspective of the region. The realization of those hopes will depend on the ability of the individual countries in the region to implement institutional, governmental and economic reforms, and on the fulfilment of the political criteria of the European Union, including full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and progress in the field of respect for the rights of minorities. The events of recent decades have profoundly changed the world order. Today the conditions exist for the democracies of the world to unite in order to spread those values that are the unavoidable premise for all others: freedom and democracy. In the Millennium Declaration we promised food, water, health and education to the greatest possible number of citizens. Now the democracies must commit themselves to providing, also and above all, the intangible values from which the other, more tangible ones spring, because without the prerequisites of freedom and democracy there can be no hope for lasting peace and development, nor can there be an ultimate defeat of the challenge of poverty.﻿Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. My delegation pledges its support and its cooperation to you. I wish you a very successful tenure of office. I also wish to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, for the efficient manner in which he presided over the proceedings of the previous session. In addition, I wish to take this opportunity to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his relentless efforts and dedication to the cause of international peace, security and economic development. My delegation wishes to express our deepest sympathies to the families of the United Nations staff who died in the terrorist bombing at the United Nations offices in Baghdad on 19 August 2003. Those tragic deaths are an incalculable loss to the United Nations. Such violent acts should not be allowed to continue. My Government also joins other Members of the United Nations in condemning these inhuman acts. I should like to state that Zambia condemns, in all its forms and manifestations, the terrorism that is occurring in various parts of the world. We pledge to cooperate with the international community in the fight against international terrorism. It is in that vein that the Zambian Government welcomes Security Council resolution 1502 (2003), on the protection of United Nations personnel, associated personnel and humanitarian personnel in conflict zones, which was adopted on 26 August 2003 and which, inter alia, expresses strong condemnation of all forms of violence. The tragedy in Baghdad underscores the need for concerted efforts to strengthen multilateral approaches to international peace and security. The United Nations should be allowed to lead efforts to achieve comprehensive disarmament in nuclear, chemical and conventional weapons. Terrorists should be denied access to all weapons of mass destruction. Nuclear, chemical and conventional weapons, including small arms and light weapons, pose a serious threat to international peace and security. In Africa, small arms and light weapons, as well as anti-personnel landmines, have destabilized States and have taken a great toll on life and property. My Government is hopeful that this session will advance the horizon of the international disarmament agenda. Zambia mourns the untimely death of Ms. Anna Lindh, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sweden, who dedicated her life to the pursuit of peace, social progress and development. My country will miss her friendship, dynamism and broad understanding of developmental issues. As a peace-loving Member State, Zambia will continue to cooperate with and to support the efforts of the Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC), established by the Security Council to fight terrorism. The CTC should be encouraged to work to raise the capacities of Member States to fight international terrorism. Emphasis should be placed on addressing linkages between terrorism, money-laundering and organized crime, which are among the most serious challenges to stability and peace in our era. The strength of the United Nations lies in its legitimacy, founded on the bedrock of principles of international law accepted by all Member States. It is essential that the conduct of international affairs be in conformity with those principles. The common security agenda should reflect a global consensus on all major threats to peace and security. The spirit of cooperation based on the shared values of equality and sovereignty, which are enshrined in our Charter, is a source of our strength. Poverty is the greatest impediment to development. Poverty reduction therefore remains the foremost priority of developing countries and should continue to feature highly on the agenda of the United Nations. It is regrettable that, since the Millennium Declaration three years ago, indications are that most developing countries risk falling short of achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. This is largely due to lack of resources and capacity and weaknesses in national and global economies. Zambia continues to strive to implement those goals. Globalization has brought about both opportunities and challenges. But the current world economic conditions are unfavourable to developing countries in general, and to the least developed countries in particular. Unless there is an increase in the flow of the official development assistance (ODA), foreign direct investment and other forms of assistance, it will be difficult for these countries to come out of the 12 vicious circle of poverty and lack of development. This situation is exacerbated by the huge external debts that the least developed countries are struggling to pay off. Given their economic problems, the least developed countries, of which 34 out of 49 are in Africa, there is need for support from the international community within the framework of the 2001 Brussels Plan of Action. In that vein, I wish also to urge developed countries to honour their pledges to meet the target of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product offered as ODA to developing countries. While we welcome the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative in addressing the external debt, there is a need to broaden and ease the process of accessing funds. Equally important, developing countries need easy access to the markets of the developed countries. This is important to stimulate economic growth. To level the playing field, my delegation calls for the removal of agricultural subsidies in developed countries, which have contributed to the adverse and poor terms of trade for the developing countries. Zambia regrets the failure to achieve a consensus at the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference at Cancún. There is an urgent need to overcome the impasse that emerged. Developed countries should demonstrate a give-and-take spirit in these negotiations. In the effort to address social and economic problems and promote development, the African heads of State and Government, at their summit held in Lusaka, Zambia, in July 2001, adopted the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), to place the continent on a path to sustainable growth. Although the ownership and the implementation of the NEPAD programme is the responsibility of the Africans themselves, in order to succeed they need the cooperation and assistance of the international community. My delegation would like to appeal to the donor community, including United Nations agencies, to assist in the implementation of NEPAD. My delegation is mindful that Africa’s development is hampered by conflicts. Wherever these occur, there is no development; rather, there is more destruction and loss of life and property. Zambia commends the leadership of Africa for taking up the challenge to resolve conflicts in the African way. We thank them for their time and resources directed at that effort. We are happy to note the positive developments that have taken place in the recent past in various parts of Africa where the peace processes have led to the cessation of conflict and the return of peace. In that regard, my Government reaffirms its readiness to contribute to the international conference on the Great Lakes region initiated by the United Nations in collaboration with the African Union. The international community should make efforts for conflict prevention and resolution. Conflicts should be avoided by creating a conducive political environment and allow political pluralism, democracy, good governance and transparency to flourish. My country’s commitment to the peaceful resolution of conflicts is unwavering, and we will continue to participate in peacekeeping operations. The HIV/AIDS pandemic is indeed a global crisis. It is no longer just a health concern, but an impediment to human development and political stability, which threatens international peace and security. The startling figures of 42 million people who live with HIV/AIDS globally, the majority of whom are in sub-Saharan Africa, and the 31 million people who have died from the pandemic, should compel the international community to take concrete measures to combat the scourge. The scourge has ravaged Zambia. My Government is devoting considerable attention and resources to combat its spread and to limit its impact on our communities. We are also tackling the problems created by the pandemic such as the plight of AIDS orphans, street kids and vulnerable households. In this task, Government, civil societies, the relevant United Nations agencies and the private sector are all working together. Zambia is also cooperating with other Governments as well in tackling this pandemic. The Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which is a welcome initiative, has provided renewed impetus to the programmes and interventions of Member States designed to combat these deadly diseases. There is a need to contribute more generously to the Fund for it to be solvent and viable. My delegation wishes to appeal for easier access to these funds to enable affected countries to procure cheaper and affordable generic drugs that are urgently needed. 13 My delegation calls for radical reform and strengthening the world body to make it a more efficient and effective instrument to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. Zambia supports the Secretary-General’s proposals for reform of the United Nations aimed at the strengthening this world body. In conclusion, I wish to state that my delegation recognizes the numerous challenges that the United Nations faces. I have every hope, that through our collective effort, we will succeed in attaining peace, development and prosperity for all humanity. Zambia pledges her support in these efforts.  ﻿I would like to express my cordial congratulations to the President for presiding over this important session of the General Assembly. I wish also to express my congratulations to other members of the Bureau on their election. Less than 60 years ago, our founding fathers established the United Nations, with the aspiration to promote peace and security through cooperation and to make our world a better place. The creation of this Organization was in fact the manifestation of the international community's determination to prevent the scourge of war, which had inflicted tremendous loss and damage upon humankind. The United Nations was also designed to promote economic, social and human development and assist Member States to eradicate injustice and poverty. These objectives and concerns remain as valid as ever and perhaps are even more relevant today. We believe it is time to take stock of recent developments and the utility and record of the United Nations, with a view to promoting the authority, efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations, and recognizing its central role in addressing the challenges of our time. The United States waged an unsanctioned war against Iraq with three expressed objectives: to find weapons of mass destruction, to fight international terrorism and to bring democracy to the Iraqi people. The first is yet to be realized. The second has backfired. And, as far as the third is concerned, the collapse of a dictatorship is a highly welcome development in the region, but, as history has shown, social change, including the democratization of a society, can only be brought about from within, and cannot be imported in tandem with tank columns. In our view, callous indifference to the negative 28 consequences of the invasion of Iraq to the conduct of international relations and a lack of full understanding of the post-war situation in Iraq, particularly the social and the cultural complexities of Iraqi society, have created both an international predicament and a source of instability at our borders. As a neighbouring State, Iran adopted a policy of self-restraint during the war in Iraq and has continued to adopt a constructive approach to the current situation in that country by calling on the occupying Powers to allow the immediate transfer of Iraqi sovereignty to the Iraqi people and to withdraw their troops. We welcome and support the establishment of the Iraqi Governing Council and the Council of Ministers and call for granting a central and clear-cut role to the United Nations in the restoration of Iraqi sovereignty and the constitutional process. We wish to promote unity and greater respect for stability and security among various ethnic and religious groups in Iraq, and encourage and support the swift setting in motion of a constitutional and institutional process, with a view to establishing a democratic and fully representative Government by and for the people of Iraq. We urge respect for the national unity, independence and territorial integrity of Iraq and the provision of relief emergency assistance to the people of Iraq. Pending the restoration of sovereignty and authority to the people of Iraq, the occupying Powers have the legal responsibility under applicable international law to provide for the welfare of the people under occupation, particularly their security. In this context, the United Nations should be allowed to play a central role in laying the ground work, on an urgent basis, in assisting the Iraqi people to establish a democratic and representative Government and in supervising the transfer of authority to them. The international community, in general, and Iraq's neighbours, in particular, will undoubtedly lend their full support to the United Nations in this endeavour. I would like to express once again my condolences to the Secretary-General and the United Nations community as a whole for the loss of a brave servant of the nations, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and other United Nations personnel in the terrorist bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Iraq. The people and Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran also sympathize with the people of Iraq over the loss of another man of peace, Ayatollah Mohammad Baqer al- Hakim, in a separate terrorist bombing in Iraq. The violence against and the killing of innocent Palestinian people by the Israeli Army have become a daily occurrence, and prospects for a viable peace are steadily diminishing. The Palestinian people live under brutal occupation and oppression with no hope for relief, let alone peace and prosperity. The policy of the Sharon Government of reoccupying Palestinian cities and using military force to further terrorize the Palestinian people has exacerbated the situation and added to the despair and frustration of ordinary people. The international community has a major responsibility to take effective measures in alleviating the suffering of the Palestinian people. The recent decision of the Israeli regime to expel President Arafat from his homeland has outraged the international community, in general, and the Muslim world, in particular. I am confident that the free and civilized world will continue to reject and condemn such a move by Israel. It is regrettable that the United States, last week, once again and for the thirty-sixth time, resorted to the veto to block the adoption of a draft resolution. On behalf of the people and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I wish to take this opportunity to express our satisfaction over the steady improvement of the situation in Afghanistan under the leadership of President Karzai and his Government. At the same time, we are concerned about problems such as the regrouping of remnants of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, the paucity of international assistance and the increase in opium poppy cultivation. Unless the international community is more forthcoming in assisting the Afghan people and Government, recent achievements in Afghanistan may be jeopardized. We have a great stake in the return of full normality and stability to Afghanistan. In this area, we have strongly supported the central role of the United Nations in helping the Afghans to rebuild their own country, and we believe that the United Nations should continue to play this role for the foreseeable future. Terrorism is a global phenomenon that requires a global response. Fighting terrorism requires a multifaceted approach that goes well beyond a simple focus on law and order and also addresses its underlying causes. A unilateral and one-dimensional approach, based merely on the use of force, may neutralize some threats and bring some psychological comfort to those who seek revenge in response to 29 terrorist acts, but few would regard that as a serious methods of uprooting international terrorism. Any attempt to link terrorism to a specific religion or culture is prejudicial, politically motivated and thus unacceptable. No religion authorizes its adherents to kill innocent people, whatever the objective of such acts might be. The Islamic Republic of Iran condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Iran has done more than its fair share to effectively combat terrorism. In the heat of the military intervention in Afghanistan and in the wake of the Taliban collapse, thousands of individuals were denied entry into Iran; more than 2,300 individuals with false or no travel documents were deported and hundreds of suspects were arrested, interrogated and handed over to their countries of nationality or residence; and lists of such persons were brought to the attention of the relevant United Nations officials and bodies. Iran continues to cooperate in serious and long-term efforts to combat terrorism in a comprehensive, non-discriminatory and non-selective manner efforts that do not pick and choose between good and bad, or useful, terrorists. Weapons of mass destruction are among the most potent threats to peace and security at the regional and global levels. The Chemical Weapons Convention, Biological Weapons Convention and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) are the results of our collective wisdom in our efforts to eliminate the threat of chemical and biological weapons and the spread of nuclear weapons. We believe that more needs to be done. We should do more to make these basic international instruments universal. We should also do more to strengthen verification of their implementation. Finally, we should all work collectively, as mandated by the International Court of Justice, to move towards the total elimination of nuclear weapons. By adhering to all of these three instruments as an original party, my country has shown its determination to work towards the complete eradication of weapons of mass destruction from the Earth. Our commitment to international regimes on weapons of mass destruction lies not merely in our contractual obligations but, more importantly, in our religious convictions and historical experience. No country has suffered as acutely as mine from the tragic scars left from being victims of such weapons, particularly against the backdrop of a complacent international environment. We are convinced that the pursuit of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction will not only fail to provide deterrence or enhance security and influence, but will only increase vulnerability. Thus, I can state categorically that for all these reasons, weapons of mass destruction have no place in the defensive strategy of my country. We believe the only option is to work actively towards a global and regional ban on these weapons, and we have thus spared no effort in this regard. However, the efforts to ban, or strengthen the ban, on weapons of mass destruction should not provide any excuse for denying States the right to develop technology for peaceful purposes. Unfortunately, the political pressure against the Islamic Republic of Iran to relinquish its inalienable right to develop peaceful nuclear technology is mounting, while some nuclear weapon States continue to test and develop advanced tactical nuclear weapons programmes. Furthermore, in defiance of international calls to adhere to the NPT, Israel is continuing, with impunity, its clandestine development of sophisticated nuclear weapons and their delivery systems. All NPT Review and Extension conferences have called for the suspension and freezing of Israel's tactical weapons and nuclear programmes, which are the real threats to international peace and security. They are both considered to be in contravention with the letter and spirit of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Iran's nuclear programme is solely for peaceful purposes, specifically for the planned production of 7,000 megawatts of electricity by 2020 for Iran's economic development. Iran will vigorously pursue its peaceful nuclear programme and will not give in to unreasonable, discriminatory and selective demands that go beyond the requirements of non-proliferation under existing International Atomic Energy Agency instruments. At the same time, Iran does not have a nuclear weapons programme, nor does it intend to embark on one. Thus, we have nothing to hide, and in principle have no problem with the Additional Protocol. We are eager to ensure that this step will be utilized solely to enhance confidence and remove all doubts about the peaceful nature of our nuclear programme.  In facing global challenges, no possibility other than mutual cooperation through the United Nations will be conducive to lasting and effective solutions. The democratic process advocated at all levels within the international community needs also to be reflected within the United Nations system. The General Assembly should play a more active role in global affairs. A more representative and democratic Security Council would mean a more efficient United Nations the kind of organization we should all want and work for.  ﻿It is my pleasure to express congratulations and best wishes to Mr. Julian Hunte on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, and to express my confidence in his ability to ensure a productive and successful session as a representative of his friendly country, Saint Lucia. It is also my pleasure to express appreciation for the efforts of Mr. Jan Kavan, former Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, in presiding over the fifty-seventh session and for the tireless efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, in reaffirming the contributions and the role of the United Nations in addressing regional and international issues to fulfil the will of the international community, particularly by carrying out its principal responsibility for maintaining peace and security in the world. Today, the United Nations is nearing the end of the sixth decade since its establishment after the Second World War as part of a world order accepted by all humanity to avoid the catastrophic consequences of war. Also today, the world is witnessing unprecedented threats, conflicts and crises, and it faces challenges that threaten the noble purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the Organization, a body to which the world's peoples look to avoid the perils of war, to free themselves from the fear of force and oppression, and to seek justice, prosperity and stability. Since its inception, the United Nations has carried out the responsibilities set out in its Charter in a wide range of fields that are relevant both to people's daily lives and to the international community. Those responsibilities have included peacekeeping operations, development programmes, conferences on the environment, enhancing and expanding the role of women, protecting human rights, the resettlement of refugees, combating disease and epidemics, dealing with national disasters, spreading a culture of peace, and reaffirming international legality and the rule of law. However, those great achievements in people's lives and in Member States of the Organization will count for nothing in the face of regional conflicts, civil wars and ethnic strife in many parts of the world. Many resolutions crucial to the maintenance of peace and stability continue to be ignored and therefore fail to serve the will of the international community. Therefore, all of us leaders, peoples and Governments have the moral responsibility to reactivate and implement those resolutions. We must reflect on the reasons that they have not been implemented; we must objectively consider why that has taken place; and we must study the Organization's successes and failures in that regard. In order to overcome these shortcomings in the current world order, we must muster the necessary political will and mobilize the efforts of the States and peoples that the Organization has comprised since its inception. Only thus will we be able to bridge the chasm between hopes and realities and to correct the misalignment between texts and ambitions and between resolutions and their implementation. The Kingdom of Bahrain, under the leadership of His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa, has reaffirmed its strong belief in upholding the principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations and its confidence in the Organization's ability to shoulder its historic and legal responsibilities to build and maintain peace and to strengthen the foundations of peace. Bahrain's leading regional and international role in comprehensive human development both economic and political has over the years been consistently supported by United Nations statistics and reports. The latest of those reports the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Human Development Report of 8 July 2003 demonstrates that fact. At the political level, Bahrain has moved quickly forward with the consolidation of constitutional democracy and the rule of law after the overwhelming popular approval of the National Action Charter, promulgating its Constitution of February 2002 and establishing the two Chambers of the National Assembly in October of that year. At the level of civil society and human rights and in order to increase the pace of reform and development, Bahrain took significant steps to enhance constitutional guarantees of civil and political freedoms and rights through a royal decree establishing the Constitutional Court in 2002 and through the Workers Trade Union law of the same year. Reaffirming their status and role in society, women in Bahrain are constitutionally entitled to vote and to run as candidates in elections, and to hold important positions in both the public and private sectors. In addition to that, women participate in the 18 broad social activities of the Supreme Council for Women, part of a coordinated and integrated system of development efforts that include mother and child care, achieving equality between men and women in a society that believes in the unity of the family, values gender equality and respects the rights of the family. The Kingdom of Bahrain, a regional centre for trade, with well-established social and economic foundations based on a historic tradition of openness, is today a hub for trade in goods and capital, in a legislative and social environment in which Bahrainis, non-Bahrainis and visitors alike enjoy the stability required for investment and the movement of capital. These laws guarantee that the country remain an attractive and successful location for residence and movement for individuals and investors. Bahrain is also a fine example of successful economic liberalization, which has made it an attractive point in the Gulf area for regional projects and investment. Achieving economic integration and regional cooperation between the Gulf and Middle East regions and other major and free trading blocs depends upon the strong foundation of a political and strategic environment conducive to achieving peace and cooperation. In that context, the achievement of a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East can be brought about only through a recognition of the inalienable legal rights of the Palestinian people to self-determination and the establishment of their independent State, a return of sovereignty over territory occupied since 1967 and control over their economic resources, in accordance with resolutions of international legality and the principles and aims of Middle East initiatives, and on the basis of agreements between the two sides, which must be fully respected and implemented. The road map, which has gained consensus among the international community, supports the establishment of an independent Palestinian State living in peace and security, side by side with Israel, as envisaged by United States President George W. Bush in his peace initiative of June 2002, as reaffirmed by the international Quartet comprising United Nations, the United States, the European Union and the Russian Federation, and as agreed upon by the Palestinian Authority. This provides a unique, historic opportunity to achieve a balanced settlement that will restore the legitimate rights of the people and achieve a delicate balance between the obligations of the parties and their rights to security and peace. The recent Israeli decision to remove in principle Chairman Yasser Arafat, the elected Palestinian President, and its threats to eliminate him, are very dangerous matters that contravenes the principles of democracy and the rules of international law. This was reaffirmed by the adoption of resolution 10/12 at the tenth emergency special session of the General Assembly on 19 September 2003. Bahrain, which expresses its concern at this dangerous Israeli decision, calls upon the Quartet and the international community to pressure Israel to prevent the implementation of this decision, whose repercussions would weaken current peace opportunities. Peace in the Middle East must be comprehensive; it requires the full implementation of resolutions of international legality, particularly Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), which call for Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Arab territories, including the Golan Heights, and Security Council resolution 425 (1978), regarding the Lebanese territories remaining under occupation. The Middle East today faces great challenges as well as unique opportunities and crucial moments that will determine the future of the region for generations to come. This peace must be a single and indivisible unit. That applies both to the Middle East and to the Gulf region. It is a fundamental and vital request by Bahrain and the Arab world that steps be taken by the international community, the United Nations and influential parties, in particular the United States, to normalize political, economic and civilian life in Iraq, so that the country can regain its Arab, regional and international role. In order for the Iraqis to determine their destiny, within a constitutional framework that provides for the rule of law and guarantees political freedom, peace and security for all Iraq's citizens and ethnic groups a vital legal requirement the Iraqis themselves must be allowed to rebuild economic, political and social foundations, as well as civil society, within an Iraqi national Government. The Kingdom of Bahrain believes that the formation of a new national Government in Iraq is an important step for the brotherly Iraqi people towards 19 taking over their own affairs for a better life and for an increased regional and international role. With regard to the Islands of the Greater and Lesser Tunb and Abu Moussa, which belong to the brotherly United Arab Emirates, we hope that the current important dialogue between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran will lead to a peaceful settlement of this issue and contribute to security and stability in the Gulf region. The international commitment to fighting terrorism, political violence and extremism has become both an international and a national responsibility, particularly since the events of 11 September 2001, which claimed the lives of many innocent people. Combating terrorism has become an international obligation, in keeping with the United Nations commitment to respect human rights, foremost of which are the rights to life and security. Accordingly, the Kingdom of Bahrain has backed all international and regional efforts to combat this dangerous scourge, which threatens us all and whose effects can be felt around the world. Most recently, we have witnessed the evil attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, in which Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General, and a number of other innocent people lost their lives while serving the cause of international legality. In that regard, Bahrain condemns the vicious orchestrated campaign waged against a sister State, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, by some Western media. We wish to commend Saudi Arabia for its tangible and important contribution to the global campaign against terrorism, to which it itself was exposed. Bahrain fully supports and endorses all the measures taken by Saudi Arabia in its attempts to eliminate terrorism and to consolidate regional security and stability. The challenges of today's world order, represented by the United Nations, are greater than any particular region or State, and encompass all areas of life and society: the economy, education, health, technology and information, particularly following the information and communications technology revolution, in the context of the comprehensive globalization of thought, trade, politics, war and peace. Today, it is neither possible nor acceptable, within the globalization of international relations at various levels, for one region to have full prosperity and abundance while others suffer from poverty and want, drought and desertification, and from incurable diseases which science and medicines cannot yet tackle and to which countries and Governments are unable to effectively respond or provide medicine or care for millions of victims. Against the backdrop of globalization, the international community cannot ignore these trends. The summits, conferences and United Nations special sessions that have been held over the years to deal with issues such as human rights, the environment, development, women's rights, habitat, motherhood, children, culture and civilization reflect the degree to which those issues are connected to humanitarian, cultural, social and peace and security issues. Bahrain's active role and contributions and effective participation in summits and General Assembly special sessions, and its involvement in the International Year of Dialogue among Civilizations in particular, clearly show that Bahrain's national policies and programmes dovetail with the priorities of the international community. An example of that was Bahrain's hosting of high-level dialogues among religions and cultures in autumn 2002. In the same vein, the Kingdom of Bahrain hosted a meeting on Islamic-Christian dialogue in October 2002, at which a number of valuable recommendations were put forward that we hope will contribute to efforts made in this area. Bahrain also recently hosted an Islamic forum, in which a number of Islamic scholars and clerics took part, to promote harmony among various Islamic schools of thought. Bahrain will continue to play the role of a haven for brotherhood and dialogue and a meeting place where various religions and cultures live side by side in peace. The Kingdom of Bahrain believes on the basis of conscientious and free national will that the world today urgently needs a strong and revitalized United Nations, as was the case in the wake of the Second World War, to maintain international peace and security and effectively contribute to enhancing the dignity and welfare of humanity. In its quest for peace, the Kingdom of Bahrain is pursuing national policies of development and democracy to raise hope for a better future that will free the individual from fear and despair, oppression, famine, poverty and ignorance, provide him with a dignified life and protect him from natural disasters. Our national and international policies are closely inspired by the work of the United Nations, particularly in the development, social, economic and 20 humanitarian fields. Those policies are based on constitutional legality, democracy, transparency and good governance and guarantee the respect of individual rights and freedoms. Bahrain aspires to peace and security within the country, the region and the world as a whole.  ﻿At the outset, allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over the Assembly at this session. I would also like to congratulate the outgoing President, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his work at the head of this Assembly at the previous session. On behalf of my Government, we would also like to reiterate our gratitude for the efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to promote peace and multilateralism, and to express our solidarity in wake of the criminal attack that claimed the lives of several staff members of this Organization. We have come from the world’s South to the General Assembly with a firm belief that revitalizing this global representative forum is essential for international law to become once again a rational instrument for resolving conflicts and facing threats. Restoring the major political role that the Assembly played in the early days of the United Nations is key to strengthening security for all citizens of the world. Indeed, multilateralism is the cornerstone of this Organization. But the cold war and bipolarity that characterized the world after the Yalta Conference until the fall of the Berlin Wall undoubtedly shaped the instruments and legislation that were adopted within that framework. Any objective look at the international situation that that goes beyond the particular biases of individual Members of the Organization will reveal another hallmark of the world today: the technological, military and economic supremacy of one country over all the rest. We therefore consider it necessary to reaffirm our determined support for the purposes and principles that underpin the United Nations, so that it can actively work to promote peace and the social and economic development of humanity. But, it bears repeating, we must not limit our commitment to multilateralism to words alone. Promoting multilateralism requires a dual strategy. First, an open mind is needed to objectively grasp the full extent of the new state of affairs. Secondly, we need to reconsider the instruments and rules so to cope with this new reality just as was done during the era of bipolar politics in order to save the world from destruction. Multilateralism and security are inseparable but are not the only factors in this new equation. The world is changing against the backdrop of a globalization that is creating unprecedented opportunities and risks. The greatest risk is the widening gap between the rich and poor. To divide the world into central and marginal countries is not merely an academic exercise or a matter of ideology. Quite the contrary, such definitions reflect a grim reality of unprecedented poverty and social exclusion. Our priority must be to ensure that globalization works for all, and not just for the few. Promoting the development of the marginalized countries is no longer simply a matter of social conscience on the part of the central countries. It has an impact on their situation and security. Hunger, illiteracy, exclusion and ignorance are some of the basic elements that fuel the spread of international terrorism and cause violent and massive national migration flows, which have cultural, social and economic consequences. They also inevitably threaten the security of the central countries. Economic integration and political multilateralism hold the key to safer future world. We need to build global institutions and effective partnerships within the framework of fair and open trade and to bolster support for the development of those most in need. If we are to promote collective security intelligently, we must understand that security is not just a military issue; it depends on political, economic, social and cultural factors as well. These are the key challenges on the current international agenda that the main actors must meet. In this framework, the relations between countries like ours and others in the international 8 community are affected by a huge and crushing burden of debt owed to multilateral financial institutions and private creditors. We accept our share of responsibility for having adopted policies that caused this indebtedness. But we also call on the international financial institutions — which contributed to, encouraged and promoted the growth of that debt by dictating their terms — to accept their own share of responsibility. It goes without saying that when debt grows to such an extent, not only the debtor but also the creditor bears responsibility. It is therefore necessary to acknowledge the tangible, verifiable and rather obvious fact that repaying such a debt entails great hardships. Without specific international assistance to enable indebted countries to restore economic solvency and thereby their ability to repay debts and without measures to foster their growth and their sustainable development by taking concrete steps to promote their market access and growth of exports, debt repayment remains a pipedream. Promoting exports of finished products based on the natural resources that most indebted countries have can lay the foundations for sustainable development, without which creditors will have to face their losses without any other realistic options. No one is known to have succeeded in getting their money back from the dead. To reach the objective of making a country viable so it can pay its debts, intensified multilateral negotiations are greatly needed to eliminate tariff and non-tariff barriers that hinder access of our exports to the markets of the developed countries, which have the largest purchasing capacity. Indeed, there continue to be export and production subsidies in the international trade in food products — Argentina’s main export item — as well as tariffs, unjustified sanitary measures and trade restrictions that distort the terms of trade in commodities and seriously hamper market access for finished products. The failure of the World Trade Organization negotiations in Cancún should serve as a wake-up call to us in this regard and should be remedied by making the greatly sought-after link between business opportunities in international trade and the growth of indebted countries and their debt-repayment capacity. It is paradoxical and even ridiculous that we should be called upon to repay our debt while we are being prevented from trading and selling our products. On the other hand, although it is true that the objectives of the multilateral institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), include shortening the duration and lessening the imbalance of payments of member countries and instilling confidence by giving them opportunities for readjustment, without taking measures that undermine national or international prosperity, it is also necessary to redesign those multilateral institutions. Redesigning multilateral lending agencies should include changing the models so that the success or failure of economic policies is measured in terms of success or failure in the fight for development, equitable distribution, the fight against poverty and maintaining adequate levels of employment. This new millennium should banish adjustment models in which the prosperity of some is based on the poverty of others. The dawn of the twenty-first century should mean the end of an age and the beginning of a new collaboration among creditors and debtors. In a nutshell, it is essential to take note of the close connection that exists between security, multilateralism and economics. The defence of human rights occupies a central place in the new agenda of the Argentine Republic. We are the children of the mothers and grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, and we therefore insist on permanently supporting the strengthening of the system for the protection of human rights and the trial and conviction of those who violate them. All of this is based on the overarching view that respect for persons and their dignity arises out of principles preceding the development of law, whose origins can be traced to the beginnings of human history. Respecting diversity and pluralism and relentlessly fighting impunity have been unwavering principles of our country ever since the tragedy of recent decades. We strongly advocate a peaceful settlement of international disputes, particularly in a matter as dear to our feelings and interests as our sovereignty dispute with regard to the Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands and the surrounding maritime areas. The United Nations has recognized that this is a colonial situation maintained by the United Kingdom and that it must be settled through bilateral negotiations between the Argentine Republic and the 9 United Kingdom. We value the role of the United Nations Special Committee on Decolonization and express our fullest willingness to negotiate in order to conclusively settle this longstanding dispute, a steady objective of the Argentina Republic. We urge the United Kingdom to agree to resume bilateral negotiations to resolve this major issue. Also with reference to the Southern regions, we undertake to protect the interests of the international community in Antarctica, ensuring that the activities carried out there are consistent with the Antarctic Treaty and its 1991 Madrid Protocol on Environmental Protection. We shall take steps at the relevant forums for the installation of the authorities and the operation of the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat at its designated seat, Buenos Aires. We express our support and wish for a stable and lasting peace in the Middle East based on the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self- determination and an independent and viable State, while at the same time recognizing the right of Israel to live at peace with its neighbours within safe and internationally recognized borders. We have spoken of progress and collective security as the global challenges of today. We have highlighted the close link that exists between economic problems and security. We firmly condemn all terrorist actions. We know what we are talking about. In 1992 and 1994 we suffered, first hand, our own Twin Towers. The attacks on the Israeli Embassy and the AMIA Jewish Community Center took the lives of over 100 of our compatriots. We can bear witness to the need to fight effectively against the new threats posed by international terrorism. The vulnerability of all countries in the international community to this scourge can be reduced only through intelligent, concerted and multilateral action sustained over time. The fight against terrorism requires a new rationality. We face an enemy whose logic is to trigger reactions symmetrical to its actions. The worse, the better, is the favoured scenario, and that logic partly accounts for the increasingly spectacular — almost cinematographic — nature of its operations. Legitimate responses and the support of international public opinion are both fundamental to confronting those new forms of violence. This view places the problem of international terrorism in a dimension that goes beyond a unilateral or military solution. On the contrary, merely responding through the use of force, however impressive such force may be or appear to be, in many cases ends with the perpetrators being presented as victims. This closes in a perfect circle the perverse logic to which we have been referring. As we see, in view of the complexity of the situation, it is no longer useful to take shelter in old alignments, anachronistic ways of thinking or outdated structures. The new challenges call for different and creative solutions so as not to be left behind by changes in the world in the technological, economic, social and undoubtedly even cultural fields. Let us rise to the challenge of thinking anew for a new world. To combine different ideas and create practical means to put them into practice in the service of the people we represent is our duty. ﻿May I extend my heartfelt congratulations to the President for his unanimous election as President of the fifty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly and express my confidence that under his able stewardship this session will successfully accomplish its mission. For the 58-year-old United Nations, which has been working throughout to maintain international peace and security, the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to foster development and progress, the passing year has proved to be a challenging period. Moreover, we feel deeply concerned that the United Nations and its staff members, who dedicate their lives to helping peoples and countries affected by wars and armed conflicts have turned into targets of terrorist acts. But it is our earnest belief that the noble mission of the late Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and other United Nations staff members who lost their precious lives while helping and assisting the people of Iraq, will not be in vain. At the Millennium Summit, held at the turn of a new century, world leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and proclaimed their firm resolve to work together towards a more efficient and revitalized United Nations. However, the emergence of a complex international situation and its subsequent developments cast into doubt the ability of the United Nations to develop a fast and adequate response to international crises, to maintain international peace and security, to prevent armed conflicts, to resolve pressing issues in war-torn countries and effectively assist them in building national reconciliation and reconstruction. Even more important, the relevance of the United Nations itself has been put into question. It is therefore incumbent upon us to reaffirm anew, at the highest level, our shared commitment to implement the Millennium Development Goals unanimously adopted at the Summit and to reiterate the importance of enhancing the role of the United Nations and multilateralism in addressing the formidable challenges of the twenty-first century. Mongolia has consistently supported the United Nations as the singular world Organization to serve the interests of its Member States and as a principal instrument of multilateral cooperation, given its underlying purposes and principles as well as its universal representation. Mongolia stands for a reformed and revitalized United Nations, adapted to the evolving international realities, for its enhanced role and greater involvement in all areas pertaining to the maintenance of international peace and security, resolution of pressing economic and social issues and promotion of sustainable development. As its practical contribution to United Nations peacekeeping operations, Mongolia endeavours to provide the relevant personnel to its various missions and supports the efforts to make peace-building missions more effective with an increased emphasis on preventive diplomacy. While emphasizing the increasing importance of ensuring the safety and security of United Nations personnel engaged in peacekeeping and humanitarian missions, my delegation fully endorses the additional measures recently adopted by the Security Council to this effect. Mongolia has signed the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel and intends to ratify it in the near future. My delegation shares the concern over the slow pace of the reform process of the United Nations initiated by the Secretary-General a few years ago. Hence, we believe that there is an urgent need to speed up the reform through identifying innovative approaches so that the United Nations and its Security Council are able to effectively address the challenges ahead. Mongolia reiterates its support for a just and equitable enlargement of the Security Council by increasing the number of permanent and non- permanent seats and ensuring representation of both developing and developed countries, reviewing the veto power and democratizing working methods of the Security Council through enhancing the openness and transparency of its work. We support the proposal of the Secretary-General to establish a high-level panel of eminent personalities entrusted with a mandate to conduct a comprehensive analysis of evolving challenges and ways of strengthening the United Nations. Some are portraying the contours of today's world as unipolar. Others are challenging this, arguing for a multi-polar world. It seems unreasonable to seek to command humankind and the patterns of its 6 existence under any particular roof or leadership, or to try to tear it apart into different directions. In today's world, characterized by globalization and interdependence, it has become increasingly evident that, despite divergent views, we all live in one global village, breathe the same air and share a common future. Mutual understanding and cooperation are becoming the order of the day, rather than division, fragmentation, marginalization or discrimination. Indeed, contemporary human philosophy teaches us not to alienate or estrange, but, rather, to interact and align with one another. In addition to the traditional threats emanating from the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the spread of missile technology and inter- and- intra- State conflicts, non-traditional threats, including terrorism, organized crime, illegal drug trafficking, scarce drinking water, environmental pollution and global climate change, are having adverse effects on regional and international security. As a State party to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), conventions banning chemical and biological weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, Mongolia deems it important to ensure their universality; to address disarmament issues in a comprehensive manner; to further reduce all types of weapons; to help the Conference on Disarmament to break through its ongoing impasse; and to strengthen monitoring mechanisms for the relevant multilateral treaties and agreements. As a nuclear-weapon-free country, Mongolia actively supports the establishment of nuclear-weapon- free zones in other parts of the world. Mongolia believes that the nuclear-weapon States should provide security guarantees to non-nuclear-weapon States and States parties to the NPT, and supports the conclusion of a multilateral treaty to that effect. Mongolia is in favour of a nuclear-free Korean peninsula and of a peaceful resolution of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea's nuclear programme issue. In this regard, we are in favour of continuing the relevant multilateral talks. Mongolia fully supports the efforts being undertaken by the international community to revive the Middle East peace process and to implement the road map, and supports the establishment of a just and durable peace in the region, on the basis of ensuring the legitimate interests of the parties concerned. Mongolia shares the concern of other nations over the precarious situation and continued loss of life in Iraq despite the termination of major combat operations. Mongolia is in favour of an increased role and involvement of the United Nations in restoring peace and stability in Iraq and in providing humanitarian assistance to the Iraqi people. With the rapid advance of globalization and technological breakthroughs, we deem it important to create an enabling environment for all countries especially weak, small or vulnerable economies equally to benefit from globalization, and for the international community to offer support and assistance to those countries in their social and economic development and to enhance global partnerships for development. Recent years have been marked by an increased emphasis on social and development issues, resulting in a host of international conferences on sustainable development, financing for development and food security, all organized under the auspices of the United Nations. The speedy implementation, at the national, regional and international levels, of the decisions taken at the social summits, as well as efforts to achieve the goals agreed by the Millennium Summit and at Monterrey, Johannesburg and Rome, have become the top priority of the world community. The recent Cancun Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization has revealed the complexity of the process, leading to a new round of talks on the Doha Development Agenda. Growing development disparities between haves and have-nots; increasing poverty and unemployment in the developing world, in particular the least developed countries; the spread of HIV/AIDS; the debt burden and trade inequalities, and the further aggravation of such pressing issues remain our immediate cause of concern. We cannot ignore the fact that underdevelopment, poverty and social inequality could serve as a breeding ground for confrontations and armed conflicts. Hence, it has become imperative for the international community to display genuine solidarity and shared responsibility for our common good. International cooperation is crucial in effectively addressing environmental challenges, including natural 7 disasters, global climate change, air and water pollution, and desertification. In this respect, small and poor nations warrant greater attention and support. Mongolia commends the outcome of the first International Ministerial Conference of Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries and Donor Countries and International Financial and Development Institutions on Transit Transport Cooperation, held in Almaty, Kazakhstan, in August this year, under the auspices of the United Nations. We consider that the timely and expeditious implementation of the Almaty Plan of Action will help landlocked developing countries to become actively engaged in global economic integration. Fifty-five years have elapsed since the adoption by the Assembly of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The relevance of this fundamental document has stood the test of time, as its underlying ideals have been enshrined in both international treaties and conventions and in national legislation, thus becoming the universal norms of humankind. The ideas contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights have been carefully integrated into Mongolia's 1992 Constitution, and my country is firmly pursuing policies to consolidate democracy and to protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thirteen years ago, Mongolia irreversibly embarked on the road to democracy and has endeavoured to make its own contribution to the cause of promoting democratic ideals. Earlier this month Mongolia hosted the Fifth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies, which resulted in the adoption of the Ulaanbaatar Declaration and Plan of Action. More than 600 representatives from 119 countries and a host of international and non- governmental organizations participated in the Conference, thoroughly discussing and sharing their experiences on a wide range of issues under the main theme of Democracy, Good Governance and Civil Society'. It is gratifying to note that the Conference successfully completed its ambitious agenda. My delegation will actively collaborate with others in ensuring effective follow-up to the implementation of the Ulaanbaatar Declaration and the Plan of Action at the national, regional and international levels. The State and Government of Mongolia are pursuing an open and multifaceted foreign policy and undertaking specific measures to consolidate the democratic reforms with a view to ensuring human- centred development and human security, promoting and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, fostering political and economic stability and achieving sustained economic growth. In conclusion, may I express my confidence that deliberations on the pressing issues before the international community during this session of the General Assembly will be productive and result in sound decisions that contribute to the strengthening of international peace and security and the advancement of social progress and development. In this context, you may rest assured, Sir, of the continued support and full cooperation of my delegation.  ﻿Allow me, at the outset, to extend my warm felicitations to you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Your vast experience and diplomatic skills augur well for the success of our deliberations. I would also like to express our gratitude and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his invaluable contribution to the success of the previous session of the General Assembly. We also pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts in leading the Organization through challenging times. We are meeting at a time when the world is facing daunting challenges. In addition to the perennial problems of extreme poverty, the spread of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS and environmental degradation, we are faced with the challenge posed by new forms of terrorism. We must confront all those challenges squarely if we are to fulfil the vision of global prosperity and collective security set out in the Declaration of the Millennium Summit, three years ago. The United Nations has a vital role to play in ensuring peace and security. Myanmar firmly believes that the Organization must be revitalized to accomplish our objectives. We cannot overcome the complex problems that beset our world without universal commitment to multilateralism and a reaffirmation of faith in the central role of the United Nations in the promotion of global peace and security. The importance of multilateralism and the need for countries to strictly abide by the principles of international law cannot be overemphasized. Indeed, Member States, both large and small, have an interest and a responsibility to uphold the Charter of the United Nations. More than ever before, our world needs greater international solidarity and cooperation. In that respect, we welcome the intention of the Secretary-General to reform the United Nations into a more effective Organization. 15 My delegation also shares the Secretary-General's concern that the pre-emptive use of force could set precedents that could result in a proliferation of the unilateral and lawless use of force, with or without justification. Recent attacks by terrorists in Baghdad, Bali, Casablanca, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Mumbai and other places serve to remind us of the grim fact that the fight against terrorism is not over. It is evident that the use of force alone cannot wipe out terrorism. If we wish to achieve enduring results, we must address such fundamental problems as the persistence of extreme poverty, the disparity of income between and within countries, racial and religious prejudice and attempts by some countries to impose their values on small and developing countries. Terrorism poses a common threat to humankind. It respects neither borders nor religion nor race. All nations must therefore join hands to meet the challenge posed by terrorists. It is only through increased cooperation at the national, regional and international levels that we can hope to overcome that menace. I wish to reiterate that Myanmar is against all forms of terrorism. We have had bitter experiences with terrorism in our own country and we are firmly committed to work with the international community to prevent, counter and eliminate that terrible scourge of humankind. Last month, terrorists brought their war to the doorsteps of our Organization when they attacked the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. They took the lives of 22 people, including that of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, one of the most outstanding international civil servants. We join the rest of the world in paying tribute to his memory and profess our profound sadness over the loss of the life of the Special Representative, and of other lives, in that unwarranted attack. I would now like to turn to recent political developments in my country. Some have accused us of deliberately creating a political impasse in order to delay the transfer of power. If one takes a close and objective look at the situation in the country, one will see that what needs to be done to effect a smooth transition to democracy is, first and foremost, to have the political will to do so. Let me assure the General Assembly that we have that political will. We are firmly committed to bringing about a systematic transformation to democracy. In the past, successive Governments in Myanmar failed in their attempts to build a multiparty democratic system, because they were unable to overcome the fundamental issues facing the nation, namely, the issues of peace and stability, national unity among all national races which number more than 100 economic development and human resources development. Attempts were made without first solving those fundamental problems; the country drifted and the people suffered. The present Government, aware of the fact that fundamental issues must first be addressed, adopted a different approach. It laid down four political objectives: first, to establish peace and stability in the whole nation and to ensure the prevalence of law and order; secondly, to consolidate unity among all national races; thirdly, to strive for a durable Constitution; and, fourthly, to build a modern and democratic nation in keeping with the new Constitution. At the outset, an olive branch was extended to the armed groups that had been fighting the Government for decades. Following successful negotiations, those groups returned to the legal fold. National unity was achieved. Peace now reigns in the entire country, providing an opportunity for long-neglected border areas to develop quickly. The gap between urban and rural areas has been narrowed. At the same time, we have taken developmental initiatives to promote a better life for our peoples. We have worked tirelessly to provide better health care, education and housing for all our peoples. We have had to rebuild the country from scratch. Those who come to Myanmar will be able to observe at first hand the immense transformations taking place in the country. As the adage goes, seeing is believing. Today our people can look forward to the future with confidence and renewed hope. Now that firm foundations have been laid, we have moved on to the next phase to commence work on the drafting of a new Constitution and to build a modern democratic nation in keeping with it. The new Prime Minister, General Khin Nyunt, who was appointed on 25 August 2003, outlined a road map for the transition to democracy. The seven-step programme includes, first, the reconvening of the National Convention, which has been adjourned since 1996; secondly, after the successful holding of the National Convention, the step-by-step implementation of the process necessary for the emergence of a 16 genuine and disciplined democratic system; thirdly, the drafting of a new Constitution in accordance with basic principles and the detailed basic principles to be laid down by the National Convention; fourthly, the adoption of the Constitution through a national referendum; fifthly, the holding of free and fair elections for pyithu hluttaws, or legislative bodies, according to the new Constitution; sixthly, the convening of hluttaws attended by hluttaw members in accordance with the new Constitution; and, seventhly, the building of a modern, developed and democratic nation by the State leaders elected by the hluttaw, the Government and other central organs formed by the hluttaw. All strata of the country's population have adopted a unified approach and supported the road map. In recent weeks, Myanmar has taken substantial steps on the road to democracy. It is important that the international community recognize those positive changes; credit must be given where credit is due. Myanmar is working to ensure an environment in which we can achieve our objectives. The people of Myanmar are enthusiastic about consolidating the progress achieved thus far. At the same time, we seek to maintain good and friendly relations with all countries in the region and in the rest of the world so that we can thrive and prosper. We have never posed a security threat to any neighbour, and we have always sought to promote regional peace and stability and the common weal of all our nations. It is disconcerting that some countries have chosen to turn a blind eye to reality and have subjected Myanmar to a wide array of unfair economic sanctions for their own political ends. Those unilateral coercive measures not only go against the spirit and the letter of the Charter of the United Nations, but also violate international law and rules of international trade. They are intrinsically unfair and only add to the hardships of people already marginalized by globalization. Countries that place a high premium on democracy and human rights have a responsibility to live up to those noble ideals in their relations with others. Our common aspirations to peace and development can be fulfilled only if nations avoid double standards and adopt a more positive attitude. We live in challenging and dangerous times. Conflicts and tensions in various parts of the world threaten global peace and security. Transnational crimes and new forms of terrorism also add to our problems. Yet it is in our power to make the world a better place. Here, it is pertinent to recall what I stated last year in this hallowed Hall: if we want to ensure a better future for mankind, we must heed the teachings of the world's great religions. Every religion calls for tolerance, understanding and compassion for fellow human beings. Only when we can overcome anger and hatred and do away with false pride and prejudice will we succeed in establishing a world in which peace and justice prevail. All conflicts, rivalries and hostilities have their roots in hatred and enmity. We must try to overcome them. We should all try to build a global order where the strong will not impose their will on the weak and where democracy prevails not only within nations, but also in the international arena. Let us work together, as a family of nations, to overcome the serious common challenges that we face.  ﻿As in the past, and despite present ordeals, Chad, my country, is very glad to take active part in this meeting of peoples united by the same fate and motivated by the same spirit of peace, justice and equality. I am convinced that the wise choice of someone with the experience and requisite skills of Mr. Julian Hunte to preside over this historic meeting will guarantee the success of the session. My country has assumed similar responsibilities within the previous Bureau and knows just how consuming yet exalting they can be. My delegation would also like to express its encouragement and congratulations to Mr. Hunte and other members of the Bureau. My delegation and I, personally, would like to assure him of our complete availability and full support for the success of his mission. We would like to reiterate our deep gratitude to him and especially to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan, for the skill and enthusiasm with which he led the Assembly during the fifty- seventh session. Allow me also to express to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan our sympathy and admiration for the courage and the firm resolve that he places at the service of the ideals and causes of the United Nations, which is now confronting many exceptional challenges. Finally, the Government of Chad would like to associate itself with other members of the international community to condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks against the United Nations offices in Iraq, which claimed the lives of several staff members of the United Nations, including the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. These heinous acts of violence should in no way break our resolve to pursue the noble goals of our Organization, foremost among which is to help peoples in difficulty to fully regain their rights to lead 3 their lives in conformity with the values of freedom, democracy and justice. I would therefore like to extend the condolences of the Chadian Government to all United Nations personnel, and the Brazilian, Egyptian and other Governments for the deaths of those who sacrificed themselves for the freedom of others. If the international community has been thoroughly overhauled since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the cold war, it has been victim to a new kind of trauma since 11 September 2001. Since that time, terrorism has been a dire threat to international peace and security. Globalization has complicated the rules of the game in trade between the North and the South, and new forms of conflict have emerged at the regional level. The best response to all this must be based on collective and joint action. As a full member of the international community, Chad, which is faithful to its quest for peace, strongly reaffirms its resolute condemnation of any act of terrorism, act of violence or any use of force — in the defence of any cause — to resolve disputes among nations.. Such actions must be dealt with by our regional organizations first and foremost, and, if they fall short, to our common Organization, the United Nations. Although it has been the subject of some controversy, the United Nations continues to be the only Organization in the world to truly enjoy international legitimacy. But to continue to best ensure that its mission and functions are carried out and to maintain its legitimacy, our Organization must enjoy the full support of all Member States. We must all contribute to assisting it in regaining its principal mission. The United Nations must once again become a common tool for us all and no longer be seen as showcase, much less a sounding board, for the will and power of the few. It will undoubtedly achieve this goal all the more easily if the long-postponed reforms are successful and reflected in the enlargement of the Security Council to include new or emerging Powers of Europe, Africa, Asia and the Americas — in sum, in recognition of the true state of the world today. This would do justice to those nations and render a service to the Organization itself. In that respect, the Iraqi crisis has only further convinced us of the need to pursue those reforms. We cannot continually evade this crucial issue. Stability and international peace and security are at stake, for the kind of globalization that our peoples seek cannot evolve in the interest of all if the international political system is predominantly unilateral in nature. Pending this revolution, which all peoples who cherish justice ardently seek, we still note with satisfaction that our Organization remains active in all crisis areas, particularly in Africa, where we urge it to be more proactive. Indeed, Africa is confronted with many difficulties that have ensued from both wars and other crises, as well as from a lack of good governance. The recent establishment of New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) promises to save the continent from the economic quagmire in which it has been plunged. But the coherence of this extensive programme is connected with the support of the entire international community. The anticipated outcome will depend on true solidarity on the part of all economies worldwide. My country, which has been committed to the path of democratic pluralism since 1 December 1990, has made significant progress. These efforts will be sustained until we have perfected the republican institutions provided for under the Constitution of 31 December 1996. The Government of Chad believes it important that this democratic process be achieved so that the rule of law and also peace and prosperity, which are the ultimate goals, might be attained. To that end, in 1999 the President of our Republic promulgated, a unique type of law that sets out modalities for the use of oil revenues. This has resulted in a system in which a substantial part of this direct income —10 per cent — is set aside for future generations, and the remaining 80 to 90 per cent remainder goes to priority sectors — those vital areas I mentioned earlier — and the region of production receives 5 per cent. Secondly, the law provides for an office for the control and surveillance of oil income. It is made up of nine members, including only one representing the Government, with five representing civil society and two the Parliament. As an independent body, that office will have broad powers and prerogatives, including authorizing expenditures from oil revenue and verification of their proper use. In this new international context, in which States are increasingly interdependent and in which the world 4 has truly become a village, Chad, while addressing its internal problems, is endeavouring to open itself to the outside world. It is following with great interest developments in the international political situation and is working to make its modest contribution to the efforts of the international community in settling conflicts, especially in Africa. Therefore, we note with satisfaction, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the new awareness of the parties involved and the emerging understanding, by the Congolese people themselves, of the enlightened self-interest of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We fervently hope that the transition process will continue uninterrupted until the final return of stability to that fraternal country. In the Central African Republic, realities in the field have shown positive change, but it is up to our Central African brothers to close their ranks to an even greater extent in order to consolidate peace in their country. The national dialogue under way offers them an excellent opportunity for a deep and constructive process of reflection on ways of bringing about national reconciliation. With respect to our border with the Sudan, we welcome most particularly the prospects for peace that have been emerging in that long-suffering country. Accords were concluded on 3 September 2003 under the auspices of President Idriss Deby at Abeche in Chad, between the Government of the Sudan and the People’s Liberation Army of the Sudan, and the protocol on security questions signed on 25 September between the Government and the SPLA also is a welcome development on the path to peace. Chad encourages the two parties to do their utmost to conclude a genuine peace agreement that would put an end to the sufferings of that fraternal country. We note with satisfaction a trend towards peace and stability in West Africa. For us, the Ivorian crisis was a serious cause for concern. The Marcoussis agreements gave rise to a real hope finally to see a peaceful solution emerge. Today all eyes are turned to Abidjan, where the Transitional Government has the heavy responsibility of conducting national reconciliation in the interest of all the children of that country. Chad encourages the Ivorian people to help the Transitional Government to carry out its mission, so that peace might be consolidated in Côte d’Ivoire. With regard to Liberia, we hope that, with continued international assistance, its situation will become stabilized. The participation of the countries of the subregion in peacekeeping operations and the presence of the Economic Community of West African States Mission in Liberia in Monrovia all give rise to hope and are a guarantee of political stability. The adoption of resolution 1497 (2003) was very timely. It represents a framework for settlement which should be used finally to break the infernal cycle of violence in that country. We would therefore like to ask the parties to the conflict to overcome their differences and work towards the return of a just and lasting peace. I cannot conclude my words on Africa without joining my voice to those of other delegations that spoke earlier from this rostrum and welcoming finally the wise decision of the Security Council to lift the embargo that for years had penalized the fraternal people of Libya. Outside of Africa, other hotbeds of tension remain, especially in the Near and Middle East, that require the involvement of the international community in the quest for adequate solutions. In the Middle East, the Israeli-Arab conflict has long been one of the concerns of the United Nations. Today conditions seem to have been met for a constructive dialogue between the two neighbouring peoples, since the road map containing the peace plan was agreed to by the parties to the conflict. This peace plan will, it is hoped, allow Palestine to achieve, by the year 2005, national independence and international sovereignty. Regarding the Middle East, the Republic of Chad welcomes the interest shown by the international community in the restoration of Iraq’s sovereignty and independence. We hope that the process of restoring power to the Iraqis will continue pursuant to Security Council resolution 1483 (2003) in a way that best serves the interests of the Iraqi people. In East Asia, the question of the proliferation of nuclear weapons, territorial conflicts and terrorist attacks are jeopardizing stability, not just for States in the region but for the entire world. Nevertheless, we are pleased to note that a dynamic for peace has definitely begun to prevail in that region. We welcome, therefore, the holding of multilateral talks on the North Korean nuclear programme, and we encourage States in the region, whose role in this respect is crucial, to 5 become truly involved in order to facilitate the quest for a final settlement of that crisis. We welcome also with relief the significant improvement that has taken place in the context of relations between India and Pakistan. This favourable climate will no doubt enable the two nuclear Powers to maintain good-neighbourly relations and to undertake the true problems of development. Above and beyond these conflicts, which are all of great concern, there remain two major issues with which the international community has not dealt with courageously, in spite of good intentions and of the resolutions adopted in various forums beginning with the Millennium Summit. I am speaking of development assistance and of the fight against HIV/AIDS. Both are Millennium Development Goals with respect to which commitments were entered into here, in June 2001, at the special session on HIV/AIDS, and at Monterrey in March 2002. While it is encouraging to note that the heads of State or Government of the Group of Eight, at their most recent Summit in May 2003, gave their support to the achievement of those goals, they still have to translate such commitments into action, as was emphasized by the Secretary-General in his report on the work of the Organization. That means, inter alia, that developed States should implement the outcome of the Monterrey Consensus and the results of the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development in August 2002. But the conclusions of the most recent World Trade Organization (WTO) Conference in Cancún have shown that we have not yet embarked on that path. We must all translate into action the Summit’s resolutions on HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. Indeed, in spite of the increase in resources and the strengthening of the political commitment at the highest level — following the example of the commitment made by the President of the Republic of Chad — the situation remains one of great concern and calls for unfailing determination and exceptional efforts in order to stem this pandemic. I would almost say that we must invent a new kind of containment in order to stem the spread of this disease. In any case, the disease is waging a brutal war against humankind, which must respond by utilizing the means required to fight a global war. This is a prerequisite for the survival of many nations throughout the world and therefore for the stability of our future world. I cannot conclude without drawing the attention of the international community to the crucial issue of the representation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in our Organization. That country has diplomatic relations and relations of cooperation with many Member States, including Chad. Paradoxically, however, with regard to the United Nations, it finds itself without any status. Its ostracism is unjustified and unjustifiable. Indeed, the Republic of China was one of the founders of the United Nations and was represented here from 1949 through 1971. The fact that this item comes up each and every year in the debates of the General Assembly proves that a substantive issue is at stake. Chad deems it inadmissible for 23 million Taiwanese to be discriminated against by the United Nations and its specialized agencies. It is thus unfortunate to note that, in the current context, the World Health Organization, for example, cannot lend Taiwan assistance in the event of epidemics, which was recently the case with severe acute respiratory syndrome. Yet the Taiwanese also have the right to live in serenity, to lead a democratic life and to be in solidarity with the world’s other peoples. They need peace — the very foundation of democracy and a condition for development. Peace presupposes the resolution of conflicts through mediation. That implies, in both hearts and minds, a culture of tolerance and respect for differences. We urge this session to put an end to Taiwan’s exclusion by restoring its status as a full-fledged United Nations Member, and we take this opportunity to invite all States in the region to halt the military escalation.  ﻿On behalf of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, I should like to convey to you, Sir, our warmest congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I am convinced that your great wisdom and wealth of experience will guarantee the success of our work. I would also like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, who guided the work of the previous session with great skill and ability. I would also like to express congratulations and great appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and all his associates, for their outstanding and tireless efforts to achieve the noble ideals of our Organization. I would also like to express our satisfaction with the action taken since the previous session of the General Assembly, in particular the meeting in New York of the Commission on Sustainable Development, which addressed measures and priorities envisaged for implementing recommendations of the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development, the decisions of the Johannesburg Summit and the Millennium Development Goals. I note particularly the efforts to facilitate access for poor countries to quality medicines to combat endemic diseases. The hideous murder of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary- General, together with a number of his closest associates, in the terrorist attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad profoundly shocked and distressed us. The increase of terrorism and its consequences in terms of fear and human and material destruction require the international community to step up consultations, cooperation and coordination and strengthen efforts to tackle the dangers that threaten all humankind. Achieving the objectives of development, security and stability hinges strongly on how effectively we handle the challenges of extremism and terrorism. My country, while stating its commitment to relevant Security Council resolutions, reiterates its absolute and firm condemnation and denunciation of violence and terrorism in all its forms and reaffirms its support for all regional and international efforts and initiatives to combat this scourge. Given the global nature of terrorism, the fight against it must necessarily be global in nature and be underpinned by an intellectual and cultural dimension based on the complementarity of civilizations and absolute rejection of any clash or conflict between them. We also must not overlook the impact of imbalance in the development levels of rich and poor countries, since poverty and social, scientific and technological under-development are primary causes of tension and sources of violence and extremism. There can be no doubt that maintenance of peace and security around the world requires a greater role for the United Nations and the strengthening of international law. My country therefore notes with satisfaction the acceptance by the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Government of the road map as submitted by the Quartet. This framework offers a fresh opportunity to establish a just and lasting peace in the interest of all peoples of the region, ensuring the restoration of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, including the right to establish an independent State with Jerusalem as its capital, pursuant to the decisions of the Madrid Conference, the principles of land for peace and Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978). My country stresses the importance it attaches to the demand that Israel withdraw from the occupied Arab territories and that negotiations be resumed immediately, as the only way towards peace and security in the Middle East. On the question of Iraq, we welcome the establishment of the new transitional Iraqi Government, while stressing our concern for the independence of that fraternal country, its sovereignty, the safety and security of its people and its territorial integrity. Regarding the question of the Western Sahara, Mauritania supports the steps taken by the Secretary- General and his personal envoy, Mr. James Baker, aimed at seeking a permanent solution that guarantees stability in the region and enjoys the agreement of all parties. 28 As regards the positive developments in the Lockerbie crisis, we express our satisfaction at the solution reached between the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and the parties concerned. We also welcome the lifting of sanctions against Libya by the Security Council. Regarding the African continent, we welcome the establishment of African Union institutions and organs which will help resolve conflicts in the continent and respond to the aspirations of African peoples to progress and development. We also wish to express our satisfaction with the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), which is aimed at enhancing regional cooperation in order to achieve economic integration in the continent. We are also pleased by the support given to this initiative by our development partners. The Islamic Republic of Mauritania, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid' Ahmed Taya, is peaceably pursuing its course towards progress and development, inspired by the comprehensive and coherent vision of a societal project that meets national aspirations and offers real prospects for social advancement, modernization and openness within the context of a State governed by law, justice and equality. That strategy focuses on combating ignorance and illiteracy, and on spreading scientific and other knowledge by promoting books and reading as part of a large-scale national programme entitled Knowledge for all', launched by His Excellency the President of the Republic, to which, over the past few years, 3 per cent of the State budget has been allocated annually. That leading-edge programme, regarded around the world as one of the best cultural projects, involves in its first stage the establishment of 1,000 libraries in major population centres, particularly in rural areas, equipped with books and reference works relating to various fields of professional, cultural and social life. This significant network of cultural institutions is striving to instil the habit of reading among all segments of society and within all age groups. It also helps to disseminate a civic spirit to promote sound thinking, combat ignorance illiteracy and professional and cultural ignorance in order to strengthen and supplement the efforts made in that area by the competent agencies. The implementation execution of that programme follows a participatory approach that offers the populations concerned and civil society organizations a basic monitoring and follow-up role. All the major societal forces have mobilized under the programme, and our citizenry understands its scope and the importance. By opting for that strategic approach, our country is embracing a vision in which human dignity, freedom, equality and social justice, the consolidation of noble human values, the preservation of safety and security and social peace around the world and comprehensive, fair and balanced development are all noble objectives that can be achieved or maintained only through the total eradication of ignorance, illiteracy and cultural and intellectual underdevelopment. The basic focuses of this strategy also include the protection of women's rights as a dynamic factor of society, and increasing the participation of women in the various fields of national life. The same is true of childhood development and the protection of the rights of children. In that context, appropriate legal instruments have been promulgated and a policy of development has been built around those priorities, which have accelerated the pace of human and social development indicators. It has been possible through substantive reforms to launch private enterprise and to create a favourable climate for investment, despite the impact of the current world economic situation. The national strategy to combat poverty has made it possible to improve the living standards and conditions of the population, with the widespread provision of basic social services such as health, education, water, energy and telecommunications. It should be noted that those results could not have been achieved without a climate of security and stability promoted by a regime of pluralistic democracy that has eliminated all forms of exclusion, opened the path to effective citizen participation, promoted all individual and collective freedoms and given particular attention to the promotion of human rights. The United Nations Charter reflects the common aspirations of the peoples of the world to achieve their fundamental objectives, including safeguarding international peace and security. The profound changes in the international scene call for the revision of the structural organization of the United Nations, in order to adapt it to the new realities and in keeping with its objectives. In that regard, it would seem pertinent to 29 reconsider the system of representation within the Security Council. We sincerely hope that the international community will pool its efforts to enhance international solidarity and build a new international order based on law and justice, one that safeguards peace and security and guarantees a decent life for all. ﻿It is my distinct honour, on behalf of the Prime Minister, the Government and the people of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this, its fifty- eighth session. We share in the celebration of the election of a distinguished son of the Caribbean to steer the course of this body for the next year. My delegation pledges its full support to you and to the other members of the Bureau in the performance of that challenging task. I also take this opportunity to congratulate your predecessor, from the Czech Republic, for his outstanding leadership of the fifty- seventh session. In addition, I should like to greet and pay tribute to the Secretary-General, who continues to serve with great distinction, honour and exceptional courage. My delegation salutes the Secretary-General for the tremendous amount of work he has undertaken since we last convened this body. I also wish to pause at this time to pay tribute to Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, the late Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, and to all other United Nations staff members who were killed or wounded in the deadly bombings of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on 19 August and 22 September 2003. We feel that loss most deeply. For us, the United Nations is paramount in ensuring the rule of law and justice in an increasingly complex world. An attack on the United Nations is an attack on the principles that bind us together as an international community. We must stand firm against efforts to undermine those principles. There is no finer tribute to those who lost their lives than to say today: Now, more than ever before, we need the United Nations. Such events remind us that the world is changing dramatically. It is imperative that we, as an Organization, be able to respond to those changes quickly and appropriately. The Bahamas welcomes the ongoing efforts to revitalize the General Assembly and to reform the Security Council. It is essential that those principal bodies be able to function effectively if we are to have any credibility and if we are to attain our goals of maintaining international peace, security, justice and development. As we are all too well aware, the process of reform of the Security Council has stalled, as we 6 remain deadlocked over critical issues. The time has come for us to take hard decisions and to agree to a practical programme of reform that takes fully into account the need for more representative membership as well as the need for a more democratic and transparent Council. My delegation has raised those issues in a number of bilateral discussions with other concerned States, and we look forward to working with the presidency and with other delegations as we strive to rationalize the work of the entire Organization, while making it more transparent and accountable. While the problems in our own part of the world may not have received as much international attention as have conflicts in other parts of the world, their resolution is of paramount importance to us. The Caribbean is our home, and we will spare no effort to protect it against those who seek to destabilize the region. The illegal transit of drugs, of weapons and of human beings is an affront to us and a serious challenge to our national and regional security. The Bahamas is grateful for the support that the region has obtained from the international community in addressing these areas, but reminds Members that we need to continue to be vigilant. We urge the Assembly to enhance its cooperation with the Organization of American States (OAS), as that regional body strives to find solutions to difficult problems involving territorial disputes between its member States and as it seeks to promote human rights and to consolidate the foundations of democracy in a number of those States. In that context, we welcome the OAS Special Mission for Strengthening Democracy in Haiti as a demonstration of the region’s commitment to this field. The Bahamas is strongly committed to the further strengthening of international efforts to prevent, combat and eliminate terrorism in all its ugly forms, and supports the work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the elaboration of a draft comprehensive convention on international terrorism. We are continuously reviewing our national legislation in order to strengthen it in those areas, with particular emphasis on cracking down on the financing of terrorism. Even now, a terrorism bill is before our Parliament. It will further strengthen the laws that limit the ability of those who would commit such acts to obtain monies to fund their activities. The commitment of the Bahamas in this fight is unyielding. The fight against the forces that would seek to undermine the rule of law in order to achieve political objectives has forced each country to review its commitment to freedom within and outside its borders and to determine how to protect the freedom that our citizens so dearly cherish. Last year, in our address to the Assembly, the Bahamas reminded this body that, in our quest for security, we must not undermine the very values we want to protect, preserve and defend. But it is clear that our conventions and established and respected traditions are being challenged before our very eyes, and we must be careful to guard against this while ensuring that all of us are safe. The Caribbean as a whole is perhaps more sensitive than any other region to these issues of change and the implications for the way of life that we enjoy, characterized as it is by an abiding respect for the privacy of the individual. It should be remembered that most of us in the region are small island developing States, which are especially vulnerable in security and economic issues. But, at the same time, our peoples are fiercely proud of our independence and the traditions of freedom connected therewith. Nowhere is the paradox of the pressure on our now independent status more sensitive and apparent than in the exercise of a presumptive legal authority by a body of powerful, but faceless, un-elected bureaucrats, being advanced from some of the developed world’s multilateral bodies, which, in the view of many, threaten to re-impose the status of dependence, without calling it so by name, and thereby undermining our economies. In that connection, the Bahamas is particularly concerned, along with its regional neighbours, about the threats to its way of life, in particular as it is underpinned by the legitimate wealth creation in its financial services sector. There are those who argue that the financial services sectors in our region undermine economic development and wealth creation in developed States, but we maintain that the evidence shows that the wealth accumulation facilitated by the financial services sectors in the region assists in the further development and economic growth of the developed world. Our country is committed to fair and equitable trade in services on a level playing field with established rules, without ever-changing goal posts. 7 Over the next year, we shall endeavour to bring this matter more clearly into focus by calling, in this and other assemblies, for the convening of a global forum on the pressures being applied to small and vulnerable States in ways that threaten the independence of these countries and, which some argue, is unlawful interference in the internal affairs of a nation-State. It is imperative that any rule-making forum on these issues be open to all Member States of this body. Similarly, all rules emanating therefrom must be equitably applied. And so, as we bring these matters to the attention of the world, we repeat the obvious. The fight against international terrorism must be a major focal point of the Assembly, as should other matters such as the fight against HIV/AIDS, the protection of the environment and the sustainable development of our fragile ecosystems. The Bahamas is committed to fighting on all of these fronts. It is especially concerned about the future of the world’s children and young people, as HIV/AIDS threatens to undermine decades and centuries of progress in healthcare and in developing healthy populations that facilitate economic growth throughout the world. The Bahamas is a leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS in the region. We urge the continued and unrelenting fight against the disease, to rescue the world’s developing nations from the clutches of this most recent scourge. It must take all of the political will and financial power of the world’s nations to ensure that the scourge is brought under control and then eliminated. The Bahamas welcomes the outcome of the special session of the General Assembly on children, held from 8 to 10 May 2002. We look forward to participating in the consideration of the follow-up to its outcome at this session. It is of critical importance that we reaffirm our commitment to implementing the provisions of the outcome document, “Building a world fit for children”, in the four priority areas of health, education, protection of children from abuse, exploitation and violence, and combating HIV/AIDS. Our country and its people are especially concerned, even as I speak, about the safety and security, both physical and economic, of children everywhere, but in particular children in the Bahamas today, and about the need to foster an atmosphere of love and care so that they may grow into their rightful places in the adult world. The Bahamas, as do many of the small island developing States, depends heavily on the environment, which is the natural beauty of the land, the sea and marine life. Tourism is our lifeblood. For the region, the natural environment is the primary source of sustenance and, therefore, we cannot allow our environment to be destroyed. Doing so threatens our very survival. We are, therefore, acutely aware of the challenges small island developing States face within the context of achieving sustainable development. The sustainable development of our country therefore remains of critical importance to the Government and thus, we, as a matter of the highest priority, continue to take steps to preserve and protect our environment. We are also committed to working with all the other small island developing States and the other members of this Organization, civil society and all other concerned stakeholders, including non- governmental organizations, to ensure that the Barbados Programme of Action is fully implemented. In that regard, the Bahamas welcomes the convening of the international meeting to review the Barbados Programme of Action, which is to take place in Mauritius in 2004, and we are proud to host the interregional preparatory meeting in Nassau, which will be held prior to that, from 26 to 30 January 2004. It is our hope that the renewed commitment to this international meeting by all Member States will take us a step closer to honouring our commitment to the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation. It is an inescapable fact that there can be no social or economic development without security. For many of us in the Caribbean in particular, this security is being undermined by the activities of those trafficking in illegal drugs and weapons. By virtue of its geographical position, the Bahamas continues to be an unwitting transit point for illegal activities, including the illicit trade in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. What is often overlooked by those who are the consuming countries is that the Bahamas neither produces these substances, nor does it produce guns, nor is it the final destination for them. However, as a trans-shipment point, the Bahamas is suffering from a plethora of illegal activities associated with this trade, including the deadly nexus between illicit drugs and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons. These weapons, which are illegal in the Bahamas, are contributing to an increase in violent 8 crime in my country and they are undermining the economic and social fabric of our nation. We, therefore, welcome the convening of the first Biennial Meeting of States to consider the Implementation of the 2001 Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, held in July of this year. At the same time, we call on developed countries to take the same extraordinary measures they use in seeking to stop drug trafficking into their countries, to stop illegal small arms from reaching our shores from their countries. We believe that the Charter constitutes a viable and firm foundation on which the Organization can balance and achieve its objectives — to maintain international peace and security and promote economic and social progress. I wish to reaffirm the Bahamas’ commitment to the principles enshrined in that universal document, which will stand as a guiding beacon as we continue to chart a rocky, yet crucial, course towards peace, security and sustainable development for all of the world’s inhabitants. While progress may seem meagre, we must not be swayed from our course, and we must remain confident that the benefits of our activities and efforts will redound to future generations. Now more than ever, the world needs the United Nations.  ﻿I begin by joining previous speakers in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election. My Government is deeply gratified by the recognition of your accomplishments as someone from a country that is a member of the Small Island Developing States Network. We are confident you will lead the work of fifty-eighth session with the same abilities as your distinguished predecessor, His Excellency Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic. On behalf of the people of Sao Tome and Principe, I would like to reaffirm the principles of the Charter and its role in promoting peace and development, and to pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his dedication and leadership. We all face daunting challenges. Violence has inflamed international relations. On behalf of my country, I would like to express our outrage and regret that the United Nations Mission in Baghdad was brutally attacked, with the tragic loss of such outstanding United Nations professionals as Sergio Vieira de Mello. We pay tribute to all those who died defending the peaceful path to peace and development in Iraq. As we all are aware, Africa, perhaps more than all the world’s continents, faces enormous challenges. We are plagued by endemic diseases such as malaria, which debilitate and kill our people needlessly. HIV/ AIDS is devastating Africa’s families, societies, cultures and economies. How can we have economic development when our people are too ill to work, or when the main breadwinner in the family is dying of HIV/AIDS, without any medical treatment? Our economy has begun to feel the negative effects of these two deadly diseases. We urge all nations to work together to mobilize the necessary human and financial resources for the critical task of controlling these epidemics, which give rise to an unrelenting cycle of death and suffering for our peoples. There can be no hope for progress in Africa if basic health is not first ensured, so that the people can work and build their own prosperity. Sao Tome and Principe, a small island State with a fragile economy, is struggling. We are proud of our democracy, our free and fair elections, our human rights and our rule of law. But in July of this year our proud and stable democracy came under threat from forces seeking to topple our constitutionally elected Government. They did not succeed, because the international community quickly intervened to support our elected authorities and to negotiate a peaceful end to the coup attempt, which restored our constitutional Government. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his personal concern for our country’s well-being. I wish also to express my appreciation for the support of the African Union, led by President Chissano of Mozambique, and for the tireless assistance of President Obasanjo of Nigeria, as well as that of officials from Portugal, Brazil, the United States, Angola, Gabon, Cape Verde and the Congo, and the many others who rescued our democracy from peril. But our democracy will remain under threat unless the Government can mobilize resources sufficient to provide basic services to our long- suffering people. For this reason, the people and the Government of Sao Tome and Principe ask for continued international support, with development aid, to improve the lot of our people and to ensure the survival of our young democracy. We must all work together to strengthen multilateral cooperation and to ensure that the United Nations and all its agencies continue to be the forum in which all Member States can promote dialogue and ensure world peace, security, democracy and development. My country regrets that international relations in some parts of the world have deteriorated to the point where extreme violence is the daily norm, infrastructures have been destroyed, and human rights are daily violated. We lament the plight of the refugees that this violence creates, and especially the plight of children, who often become the victims of those who traffic in human beings. The tragedies in Iraq, the Middle East, Liberia and Afghanistan — to name only the most egregious — can be overcome only within the multilateral framework of United Nations. Unilateral actions are doomed to failure in the long run. At the same time, Sao Tome and Principe supports an urgent reform of the Security Council, to make it into a body that reflects current realities and not those of the cold-war era. The Security Council must be democratised, with the expansion of the category of permanent members. 19 We observe with great concern the spread of terrorist acts across the globe, ranging from tragic examples such as what happened at Bali in Asia, to Palestine and Israel in the Middle East, to Spain and the United Kingdom in Europe, to Kenya and Tanzania in Africa, to Colombia in Latin America, and right here to New York and other sites in North America. But fighting violence with violence is not enough. We must go to the root of the problem, and that is the task of the United Nations. The world is a less secure place today than it was a year ago. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction continues, non-proliferation treaties notwithstanding. We must ensure the universality of those treaties and compliance with them under the authority of the Security Council. Sao Tome and Principe strongly supports the Millennium Development Goals, but much remains to be accomplished. The rules of the international economy continue to be dictated by a small number of countries that promote free markets while closing their own. The latest World Trade Organization meeting in Cancún is the natural result of this hypocrisy. Developing economies like that of my country can be competitive only if there is a level playing field, if all markets are open and if subsidies and protectionism are erased. As an island nation, Sao Tome and Principe continues to see its very existence threatened by global warming. Our shorelines are eroding and our national territory is shrinking as the seas rise. Is my small country to end up as nothing but a tiny volcanic peak sticking up above the waves, with the last of our people clinging to the land left unclaimed by the rising sea? The Kyoto Protocol must be implemented by all for the benefit of all. For many years, the people of Cuba have been living under an unjustifiable economic embargo. That economic embargo is hampering development, and people’s lives would improve were it to end. The time has come for both sides to improve confidence- building measures by going back to the negotiating table and normalizing relations. Mr. President, my country would once again ask for your attention with respect to the Republic of China on Taiwan. This is a country with a democratically elected Government which has built a strong economy and which has strong ties with many Member States. Taiwan was recently affected by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), but it was beyond the reach of the World Health Organization because Taiwan is not allowed to be a member — simply because Taiwan’s people do not accept the imposition of the “one China” principle. Despite its small size, Taiwan offers development aid to a large number of countries. Taiwan also contributes to international security by being a strong proponent of the fight against terrorism. I wish to call to the attention of the Assembly that, under the universality rules set out in the Charter of the United Nations, the Republic of China on Taiwan must one day be here among us. Our goal is to leave a better world for the next generation. We cannot go along with the concept of using force in international relations, and we denounce human injustice. We decry environmental degradation, which ultimately threatens us all. Sao Tome and Principe urges dialogue, tolerance and mutual understanding on the part of all Member States. We ask all to respect the United Nations Charter. ﻿The United Nations is a great and good idea, born of human suffering and the universal desire for a better world. Despite the many difficult challenges it has faced throughout more than half a century of its history, it has always had an important role to play. It has succeeded because it has been able to adapt and because, on meeting new obstacles, it has found a modus operandi to achieve its objectives, although not always to the desired extent. Particularly worthy of mention are its achievements in peacekeeping, humanitarian assistance and the development of international law and the universal values that international law upholds. The role that the United Nations has played to date is clear proof of the fact that not every issue facing the international community can be resolved unilaterally, or even bilaterally. In a time of growing global interdependence there are more and more problems that countries cannot solve alone, or even in cooperation with a smaller number of other countries. The multilateralism of the United Nations must therefore not be built on values that promote the short- term benefit of individual countries or interest groups. Instead, it must be grounded in the awareness that no one can be satisfied in the long term if we are surrounded by people living in destitution and without even the basic necessities of human dignity. Values grounded in that awareness must become an inseparable component of relations between countries as the global interdependence of the human race increases. That increasing global interdependence is also evidenced in the sphere of security, the most fundamental pillar of human welfare. Economic, inter- ethnic and religious tensions are no longer limited to single States or regions, but can now have potentially 2 global effects. The most drastic warning of that became clear in the terrorist attacks on the United States. The Iraqi crisis and other areas in turmoil offer further warnings in that respect. There is no doubt that we can only effectively fight international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction through the broad cooperation of many countries. The United Nations played a central role in building an international coalition against terrorism, and it must continue to play that role. As we fight against the universal evil of terrorism, we must ensure that our eyes remain focused on upholding the great gains of our civilization. Human rights take pride of place among those achievements. Sometimes we cannot avoid the Hobbesian dilemma between security and freedom. Still, we must be aware that the sacrifice of freedom for security frequently results in achieving neither. We must therefore ensure that international commitments to respect human rights are upheld. The international community has taken an important step in the protection of human rights with the creation of the International Criminal Court. It is our sincere hope that the most serious crimes against humanity will not go unpunished and that the Court will succeed in putting an end to such crimes through its independent operation. Over the past year, the international community's focus has been on Iraq. At first the course of events with regard to Iraq revealed the limitations of multilateral cooperation and decision-making. Those events now illustrate the limits of engaging unilaterally, given the immense challenges in the area of international security and the inherent limits of unilateralism itself. The complexity of the post-conflict reconstruction and revitalization of Iraq demands the widest possible support from the international community and Iraqis themselves. The United Nations is the only body capable of serving as the embodiment of such support. Its role in Iraq must become more active while retaining its autonomy. Only a strong United Nations with a broadly defined mandate will be able to fulfil the role we require of it, namely, to serve as a factor for stability in Iraq and in the entire region. Performing that role would be the best means of paying tribute to the representatives of the United Nations who tragically lost their lives in Iraq, including Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues. They will live on in our memories as well as in our actions. We should not allow the focus on the most visible crises and on the fight against terrorism to lead to the neglect of other dangers to global peace and security. A single example of that would be the areas of Africa that require assistance in both ending conflicts and tackling the root causes of such unrest. Even Afghanistan, where so recently all eyes were focused, has faded from our minds. Yet there is a clear danger that the chronic instability of that country could revert to devastating civil war. Nor can we neglect the region of South-Eastern Europe, which posed one of the most serious threats to global peace and security throughout the 1990s. South-Eastern Europe is now peaceful. However, the success or failure of its post-conflict stabilization is still dependent on the active involvement of the international community. We must therefore devote sufficient attention to political and social consolidation in that region. The world cannot respond to the Iraqi crisis by reducing that issue to one of military security, or even by engaging in the increasing militarization of international security. We must focus on the source of threats to international security. We must work hard towards responsible and sound development that does not widen the gap between rich and poor. We must move beyond a developmental pattern that worsens differences and tensions. Instead we have to ensure sound prospects for all, including those in the so-called third world. In the same vein, we must have international trade rules that enable less developed countries to use their resources to the maximum benefit. The collapse of negotiations in Cancun should be taken seriously. Developed countries should respond by accepting more of the requirements put forward by developing countries. The Millennium Declaration and its Millennium Development Goals are an important response to those challenges. We must therefore contribute what we can to achieving those objectives. I would like, at this point, to make special mention of the fight against HIV/AIDS. I warmly welcome the special session of the General Assembly dedicated to that issue. The objective increase in global interdependence requires a strengthened role for the global Organization. To that end, we must revitalize the United Nations and adapt it to meet new challenges. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has accomplished a great deal thus far in the area of rationalizing United Nations operations and increasing efficiency. We 3 congratulate him on those achievements and will support him in his continued efforts to that end. We also welcome wholeheartedly his intention to establish a high-level panel of eminent persons to look at current challenges to peace and security and to review the functioning of the major bodies of the United Nations with a view to recommending ways of strengthening the Organization. A number of questions and proposals relating to the revitalization and reform of the General Assembly have already been identified, and they have the support of the majority of Member States, including Slovenia. They now need to be put into practice. Let me also reaffirm Slovenia's belief that the Security Council must be enlarged to include representation for the countries that have the most responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. At the same time, there must be adequate representation for the rest of the international community in order to give the Council a satisfactory level of legitimacy. Putting aside the changes required in the functioning of the United Nations, it should be pointed out that many misconceptions about the United Nations stem from a lack of information about the Organization. On the basis of the experience it has gained to date, the United Nations may do well to consider expanding its own global network of universities. Such institutions would be subordinate to national legislation and would offer a high quality education in the spirit of the United Nations. Such a policy would have numerous benefits. Students would learn a great deal about the United Nations, while the United Nations would be contributing to increasing the level of education, as well as disseminating its core values. Globalization has opened our eyes to the vital realization that the whole human race is interdependent in its very essence. We must respond to the new challenges of globalization by strengthening our efforts to ensure that the values that the United Nations has done so much to develop are also globalized: international peace and security, respect for human rights, solidarity and environmental protection. The United Nations must continue to play a leading role in that all- important process. To that end, it is our responsibility to make the United Nations capable of enacting those values and hence its admirable purpose thereby making the world a better place in which to live.  ﻿Let me begin by expressing warm congratulations to Mr. Julian Hunte on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I can assure him of the full cooperation of the Jordanian delegation to ensure the fulfilment of his mandate for the benefit of all peoples and nations. I should also like to take this opportunity to express our thanks and appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his remarkable stewardship of the previous session. A special tribute is due to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his efforts dedicated to upholding the lofty goals of the Organization. Mr. Annan has been quite dynamic in his work to enhance this world body’s effectiveness and to revitalize its functions, especially in the areas of international peace and security, human 26 rights and social and economic progress throughout the world. I wish to express our heartfelt condolences to the Secretary-General as well as to the family of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and to those of all his colleagues who lost their lives as a result of the terrorist bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Iraq, a barbaric act that we all condemn. The sad collapse of the Oslo process demonstrated that a revival of the Middle East peace process under the previous terms was no longer a viable option. Peace-making in the region requires a new modus operandi, as all transitional arrangements have failed to establish and build mutual confidence between the two sides and to meet the envisioned goals. Thus, the time has indeed come for a shift in approach. Instead of managing the conflict in a way that has led thus far to a perpetuation of the cycle of violence, our focus should be redirected onto the final objectives of the negotiations. Furthermore, it is no longer useful to concentrate only on security aspects without realizing that the problem is essentially political in nature and not only a question of security. It was against that backdrop that George W. Bush, President of the United States, launched in June 2002 his vision for peace in the Middle East. On the basis of that initiative, the road map was formulated and announced. Jordan contributed to the development of the road map, which generated a real turnaround in the region’s political landscape. It established a framework of mutual obligations, whose aim is to end the Israeli occupation and to establish an independent Palestinian state on the basis of relevant United Nations resolutions and the Arab peace initiative. The road map set forth a specific three-year time frame for the birth of a Palestinian State. Furthermore, it provided for the creation of a monitoring and assessment mechanism to ensure viable implementation according to specific timelines. It was on the basis of that vision that the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan welcomed the road map when it was formally announced by the Quartet. At the time, we expressed the hope that that impetus would help to restart the peace process on a solid foundation. However, Jordan also made it clear that the declaration in and of itself would be insufficient to create forward movement towards our objectives. What was additionally required was a genuine commitment on the part of the United States and the international community to implement that vision. True to our expectations, we sensed such a genuine commitment at the two recent Sharm al-Sheikh and Aqaba summits. Jordan, in the meantime, fully recognizes that recent developments on the ground — especially the collapse of the ceasefire, or hudna, arrangement between the Palestinian groups and Israel — create severe and real risks and threats for the road map. Nonetheless, we should stay the course with a view to implementing the road map and putting an end to the occupation and the tragic killing of civilians on both the Palestinian and Israeli sides. The hard work that we are investing in this exercise is worthwhile given the potential risk of failure and the absence of political opportunity again. Such failure would make for a more dangerous and complex scenario than before and would jeopardize the interests and security of all actors. On behalf of Jordan, I wish to urge from this world podium all stakeholders — especially the members of the Quartet — to pursue their efforts to ensure scrupulous implementation of the road map, without any modifications and in a way that guarantees by 2005 the establishment of a Palestinian State, with Jerusalem as its capital, and the termination of the Israeli occupation of all Arab territories occupied in 1967. All that would be in keeping with the relevant United Nations resolutions and the Arab peace initiative, which is a key component of the road map and provides a framework for peace — a peace that is acceptable to all peoples of the region and fulfils their long-standing aspirations. Along the same lines, we urge acceleration in the creation of an effective political and security monitoring mechanism to be operated by the Quartet. That is essential to ensure strict implementation of, and compliance with, without modifications, the respective obligations of both parties as set forth in the road map. To us, such a mechanism is an essential component on which we must insist, because we consider it to be a true point of departure that would enable us to take advantage of the historic window of opportunity and bring about comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the entire Middle East. Regarding suicide attacks, I wish to reiterate that Jordan took a principled position repudiating and condemning such acts on both moral and political grounds. We maintain that those operations have done 27 harm to the Palestinian cause and have resulted in the erosion of international sympathy for it. Furthermore, they have shifted the global focus away from the core question of the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories and the pressing need to end that occupation. Along the same lines, we condemn Israel’s extrajudicial killing of Palestinian citizens. Let me stress once again that the prevailing atmosphere of violence will only play into the hands of extremists on both sides of the divide. Therefore, it is high time to implement the road map as accepted by all parties and to take bold and expeditious steps to place the entire peace process back on an irreversible track. We call upon Israel to change its current security policy, which has failed to ensure security for the Israelis. Rather, Israel should move towards restoration of confidence with the Palestinian side partner side so that both can focus on the political process by engaging in a serious implementation of the road map. To this end, Israel must ease the suffering of the Palestinian people by lifting the closures on Palestinian communities, removing the restrictions imposed on the Palestinian leadership and by withdrawing its military forces from the cities occupied since September 2000, in compliance with Security Council resolution 1402 (2002). In the same context, my Government condemns the decision taken by the Government of Israel to remove, in principle, from the occupied Palestinian territories, the Palestinian President, Yasser Arafat, who was legitimately elected by his people. In our view, this decision seriously imperils the peace process. We call on the Government of Israel to reverse its decision, which otherwise will plunge the entire region into a dangerous tunnel. Jordan condemns the Israeli settlement activities that take the form of unabated construction of settlements on occupied Palestinian land. Israel must end these activities, which breach the basic norms of international law and, not least, impede ongoing efforts to put the peace process back on track. We demand that the Government of Israel start dismantling all settlements erected since March 2001. This is, after all, a binding obligation of Phase I of the road map. We also condemn the separation wall, which consolidates Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories, devours further Palestinian land, aggravates the suffering of the Palestinian population and anticipates as a fait accompli, the future shape of the Palestinian State. While we demand that Israel cease forthwith the construction of the wall, we stress the need to respect the status of the 4 June 1967 line. Iraq has now entered a new phase during which the brotherly people of that country are facing enormous hardships and challenges. The eyes of all Iraqis are now set on the international community in the hope of receiving every possible assistance that would enable them to lay a solid foundation for building a promising future that would include reconstructing their country and regaining its status as an active member in the Organization and of the international community. While we emphasize the need to safeguard the unity, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Iraq, to ensure the withdrawal of the foreign occupation forces as quickly as possible and to enable the people of Iraq to determine their future by themselves, we welcome the formation of the transitional Governing Council as a first and important step towards a broad-based Iraqi Government that represents the full spectrum of the Iraqi population, to be elected by the people of Iraq as expeditiously as possible on the basis of a constitution accepted and endorsed by them. Against this backdrop, we decided to deal positively with the Governing Council and with all political groups in Iraq. Let me elaborate that my Government has accepted the assumption by the representatives of the transitional Iraqi Government of the seat of Iraq in the League of Arab States on a temporary basis, based on the understanding that Iraq will subsequently move towards drafting its constitution and holding elections leading to the formation of a representative Iraqi Government. We must also emphasize our condemnation of the violations of human rights and international law committed by the previous regime in Iraq, especially the crimes of assassination, mass killings and mass burials, including the execution of Kuwaiti prisoners and detainees. At this juncture, I wish to underline the central role the United Nations must continue to play in Iraq. The United Nations should remain an active player in the forthcoming political process; its role should not be restricted to humanitarian issues only. Our Organization must assume the leading role in overseeing the political process in the forthcoming 28 stage, including the finalization of the drafting of the constitution and supervision of the elections to be held in order to form a sovereign Iraqi Government. Jordan condemns in the strongest possible terms the cowardly terrorist attack against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. Despite the immense tragedy suffered by the United Nations, we do have trust in the resolve and ability of the United Nations system to maintain its operations and assistance to the Iraqi people. As you are all aware, the Jordanian Embassy complex in Baghdad was also a target of a vicious terrorist attack that claimed many innocent lives. Nonetheless, that appalling act reinforced our resolve to continue to reach out in every possible way to help our brothers in Iraq, in order to enable them to overcome the overwhelming odds they have been enduring. Terrorism has proved to be a global phenomenon that cuts across national boundaries and is not exclusive to a particular region, language, religion or race. It is therefore imperative for all members and institutions of the world community to combat it and eradicate it. Let me assure the Assembly that the Government and people of Jordan are determined to confront this phenomenon which our citizens and institutions have suffered from for several decades. Once again, let me reiterate our firm commitment to cooperate with all countries and international efforts in the joint fight against terrorism. We would like to express our full backing for the efforts aimed at achieving meaningful progress in the current negotiations in the General Assembly to adopt a comprehensive convention on combating terrorism and a convention on combating nuclear terrorism. We hope that these endeavors will prove successful in the formulation of a legal and specific definition of the concept of terrorism which would set it apart from the rights protected under international law and international humanitarian law for States, peoples and individuals. For out part, Jordan repudiates all vicious falsehoods and sinister campaigns to smear Arabs and Muslims with the label of terrorism. This phenomenon is in complete contradiction of the true nature and meaning of the Islamic faith, which is anchored in the values of justice, tolerance, peaceful coexistence and reverence for humankind. Thus, we feel a pressing need to pay due attention to the role that the dialogue among civilization plays in consolidating understanding and coexistence among peoples and nations. It also helps in eliminating the causes of extremism that emanate from a lack of genuine knowledge and comprehension of the essence of religions and cultures that are based on disseminating a message of peace, understanding and acceptance of others. The political and economic developments unfolding in this era of globalization and information technology prompt us to accelerate the process of political and economic openness in the developing countries. That will help in the evolution of stronger incentives for achieving further progress and stability. Such an environment will be more amenable to economic growth and will generate a stronger momentum to eradicate poverty and human suffering as we strive towards the fulfilment of the Millennium Development Goals. In that context, democracy assumes a special relevance, especially since it is essentially an inherent process that evolves from the cultures and specific characteristics of societies. Therefore, it is virtually untenable to impose this concept on others in prescribed forms that might not be in concert with the cultural structures of those communities. In Jordan, however, we are committed to pursue the path of democratic reforms and development of the national political process in all its aspects. In fact, that issue is quite high on our national agenda, and our expectation is that further progress will be made in the enhancement of our democratic institutions. Bearing this in mind, Jordan will be guided by the conclusions outlined in the extremely valuable United Nations Development Programme report on Arab Human Development. We are grateful to the UNDP and its team of Arab experts for their analytical methods in identifying and profiling some pressing challenges currently facing the Arab world. Jordan views this publication with great interest and perceives it from an extremely positive perspective, given its merits in terms of data, analytical approach and practical and specific objectives as well as its valuable science-based conclusions and recommendations. Our primary purpose should be how to improve the role and performance of the United Nations in all spheres of its operations. More specifically, that should 29 include strengthening its role in the areas of preventive diplomacy, the management of humanitarian crises, conflicts and wars, human rights violations, and the challenges associated with globalization and the development of humankind. In that regard, Jordan welcomes the fact that the International Criminal Court is entering a new phase in terms of the election of its Judges and Prosecutor, which is a further step in the establishment of international justice and in how violations of international humanitarian law are treated. As the General Assembly is well aware, Jordan had the privilege of working hard to make significant contributions in support of the Court’s creation and of the entry into force of its Statute. In the same vein, Jordan takes pride in the election of Her Majesty Queen Rania Al-Abdullah to the Board of Directors of the Victims’ Trust Fund established for the victims of crimes falling under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. The Fund is expected to have a tangible impact in alleviating the anguish of the victims of the most horrifying crimes and of their families. With regard to United Nations peacekeeping operations, Jordan continues to attach great importance to this area of activity by the United Nations system. We are proud and privileged to participate with other Member States in those global operations in areas that have been afflicted by war, conflict and instability. However, to ensure the effective and complete fulfilment of the lofty objectives of the mandate of each peacekeeping operation, adequate budgetary funds must be ensured for the operations’ smooth functioning, including on-time reimbursement of payments due to troop-contributing countries. In closing, allow me once again to thank the President. I wish this session of the General Assembly every success as I pray to Allah, our Lord, to enable us, one and all, to live up to the responsibilities entrusted to us. ﻿Let me first extend to you, Sir, on behalf of my delegation and in my own name, our sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at this session. Indeed, it is a matter of pride for all small island States, and Mauritius in particular, to see you presiding over the Assembly. My delegation wishes to assure you of its full support and cooperation during your tenure of office. Let me also express my Government's deepest appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, for the remarkable manner in which he presided over the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session and to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedicated leadership of our Organization. I wish to assure him of our full support in his appeal for radical reforms of our Organization and the setting up of a high-level panel to address the issues of peace and security, and institutional reform. Since we were here last autumn, many events of global importance have occurred. The war against Iraq was waged and hostilities were declared at an end, but peace and stability in Iraq have yet to be restored. Terrorism has continued relentlessly on its path of ghastly attacks and indiscriminate killing of innocent civilians. The geographical shift, however, in the terrorist attacks is becoming increasingly a disturbing development. Multilateralism, which was almost condemned to a premature burial, is being re-energized. Unfortunately, the recurring problems of HIV/AIDS, malaria, poverty, lack of development, conflicts and the ready supply of small arms and light weapons have continued to inflict death and suffering on an unprecedented scale, particularly in Africa. The attack against the United Nations compound in Baghdad contains countless messages. The most significant of them is that our Organization is in urgent need of major overhaul and reform, as rightly stated by the Secretary-General. The premature deaths of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General to Iraq, the late Sergio Vieira de Mello, and other dedicated staff members of the United Nations, whom we deeply mourn, should make us reflect on the dangers behind foreign policy initiatives that undermine or ignore the United Nations. The international community is deeply attached to the legitimacy the United Nations confers on its actions. It is our collective duty to refrain from taking any measures likely to weaken it. These horrendous terrorist acts have demonstrated anew the crucial need for the international community to tackle the root causes of terrorism. As all small islands, we in Mauritius remain highly vulnerable in respect of our security and terrorist threats. With limited means at our disposal, coupled with the multiple demands on our scanty resources, we find that it is only through international efforts and cooperation that we can win the war against terrorism. We are particularly anxious that there should be concerted and sustained action and a commitment to cooperation at the international level with a view to eradicating the scourge of terrorism. All countries must cooperate to stem the flow of cross-border infiltration. The financing of terrorism and the proceeds of transnational organized crime need to be closely monitored. Not winning the war against terrorism as well as that against transnational organized crime is not an option for the world today. Mauritius views with concern that, despite the stated commitment of the international community to the cause of disarmament, the actions of many countries do not match their rhetoric. The new challenges to security and disarmament should compel us to look anew at the potential threat posed by nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction and to pursue more vigorously efforts towards their total elimination. We reiterate our appeal to the nuclear Powers for the early convening of a conference on nuclear disarmament as a first step towards complete disarmament, keeping in mind that such a regime must be comprehensive and non-discriminatory. 25 Over the last year the international community's ability to tackle political conflicts and find lasting solutions has been dismal. The situation in the Middle East continues to preoccupy us. Despite the various initiatives, including the latest Road Map, violence remains unabated and we fear that recent developments in the region will unleash further killings and destruction. No solution will be possible there unless all the protagonists are taken on board. Exclusion as a policy is destined to fail. We continue to believe that President Arafat is an essential part of the solution, and any attempt to sideline him will be detrimental to any peace initiative. We call on both Israel and the Palestinian Authority to exercise utmost restraint and to pursue their efforts for the implementation of the Road Map with a view to putting an end to the occupation and the succeeding generations of Palestinians in refugee camps. The establishment of a Palestinian State at the earliest should be the priority of the international community. The situation in Iraq is disquieting. It is important that the Iraqis regain as soon as possible total sovereignty and assume control over their own destiny through a democratic process. The United Nations has, in the view of my delegation, a leading role to play in this process and must be empowered to do so. The African continent has been plagued for too long by conflicts and wars, which have led to the loss of thousands of innocent lives and the squandering of enormous wealth and resources. Small arms and light weapons have in fact become the weapons of mass destruction on the African continent. These weapons drain African resources and we appeal to those countries that manufacture and market those weapons of destruction to ensure that Africa does not continue to be their killing field. Nonetheless, during the past two years, the African continent has demonstrated an unprecedented momentum in its efforts to seriously address these conflicts and to search for lasting solutions. There is, however, some good news out of Africa and everything is not gloomy. The transformation of the Organization of African Unity into the African Union, the coming into operation of the various commissions of the Union and the election of commissioners on a gender-equal basis at the Maputo Summit in July last are clear indications that Africa has chosen a new path and is confident that it will be able to meet the challenges ahead. It is a matter of great satisfaction that peace is now slowly returning to the troubled areas on the continent. The conflicts in Sierra Leone and Angola have ended. A government of national unity is in office in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Efforts under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) for a comprehensive and lasting resolution to the conflict in Somalia have been crowned with success. We do recognize that years of conflict will not be easily forgotten, but what is reassuring is that African leaders are maintaining a hands-on approach to these situations. The recent developments in Liberia and the restoration of the constitutional order in Sao Tome and Principe confirm the ability of African leaders to effectively address issues affecting their continent. There is fresh confidence in the African leaders' ability to deal with flashpoints. The implementation of the Peace and Security Council of the African Union will go a long way towards preventive action being taken. We recognize that we will have to bear primary responsibility for the peace and security of our continent. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is our basic instrument of empowerment. Having decided to take our destiny in our own hands, we are not going to engage in the blame game, but we will take action to reverse poverty and to promote good governance. We will do whatever is necessary to attract investment. The establishment of the African Peer Review Mechanism within NEPAD will ensure that economic development takes place in the spirit of good governance, democracy, transparency and accountability. It is comforting, therefore, that this homegrown African initiative has received global recognition. The assistance of the Group of Eight and countries like India in the implementation of the objectives of NEPAD is much appreciated. We noted with regret that the rate of official development assistance to developing countries is decreasing, contrary to the commitment made in Monterrey. 26 We therefore call on the developed countries and other key specialized institutions in the monetary, financial and development fields to deliver on their implementation plans for the Monterrey Consensus during the October high-level dialogue. Monday's high-level segment on HIV/AIDS, in which more than a hundred delegations took part, demonstrates the extent of the concern of the United Nations membership to the pandemic of HIV/AIDS. We welcome the initiative of the General Assembly to maintain global awareness of the problem and to ensure that effective action is taken urgently to stop the spread of the pandemic. I mentioned earlier the need for reform of our Organization. It is imperative that the necessary reforms of the United Nations be undertaken to reflect in a more realistic manner the political realities in the world today. The United Nations Charter must be amended to provide for a Security Council that is more democratic and more representative of today's world. Should permanent membership of the Security Council with veto power be retained, we consider that India should be admitted with such a membership at the earliest. Likewise we believe that the African continent should be adequately represented at the same level. We would also urge a review of the veto power, which has been used in the past and continues to be used for purposes outside the letter and spirit of the Charter. May I welcome the decision of the Security Council to lift the sanctions on the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. The situation of small island developing States (SIDS) will be the focus of attention in September 2004, when Mauritius hosts an international meeting for the 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action. This Barbados +10 meeting will allow us to make a full assessment of the Programme of Action and evaluate its success and shortcomings. We need to constantly remind the international community about the fragility and vulnerability of SIDS where ecology and geography combine to inflict irreparable damage. Mauritius and all other small island developing States attach great importance to this international meeting and hope that it will harness more efforts on the part of the international community to provide the required assistance to the small island developing States. I call on this Assembly to lend the necessary support to make this international meeting a success. In this regard, let me express my appreciation to the Commonwealth and La Francophonie for their active interest in supporting the cause of small island States. As the current Chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), may I inform the Assembly that the 44 Alliance Member States and Observers consider the International Meeting to be a very important occasion for reaffirming the partnership for sustainable development that grew out of the Rio Conference. In Mauritius next year we expect to establish an appropriate framework for partnership and cooperation. The time has come to enshrine the special case of Small Island Developing States as an important component of focus and attention on the part of the international community. We appeal to the international community to support this process and ensure the full and effective participation of all SIDS at the meeting and to ensure, as well, its own participation in it. Access to information and communication technologies remains a fundamental concern in Africa. While such technologies are often promoted as an instrument that will allow countries to leapfrog stages in development, there is a real fear that the digital divide could very well prove to be yet another handicap that adds to Africa's marginalization. We therefore urge that particular attention be paid to issues of access and infrastructure. My delegation wishes to underscore that Mauritius, like many other small island States, has high hopes that the Plan of Action of the World Summit on the Information Society will provide concrete action in favour of small island developing States, whose geographical isolation, remoteness and other inherent constraints warrant special attention. The failure of the World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference at Cancun has dealt a blow to the multilateral trading system. That is very unfortunate, as there are no winners but only losers. For small developing countries in particular, a strong rules-based global trading system provides protection 27 against the unilateralism of powerful trading countries or blocs. The serious imbalances in the WTO system, coupled with the lack of effective and operational rules and disciplines to address their development concerns, resulted the failure of Cancun. We should pick up the pieces from Cancun and try to construct a trading system that guarantees equity and fairness for developing countries. Only such an approach will provide the legitimacy that the WTO system so badly needs to deliver on the Doha Development Agenda. In order to successfully respond to the multifaceted challenges we are facing in the world today, we are convinced that the international community should rededicate itself to the values of solidarity, tolerance, mutual respect and cooperation. The belief that countries can be immune from what other countries do is no longer tenable. The need for international cooperation, rather than confrontation, is critical. A new international order is essential if we are to avoid a collision of cultures and religious beliefs. This is the last occasion on which I will address the General Assembly in my capacity as Prime Minister. In six days' time, I will relinquish my current post and accede to the presidency, while my Deputy Prime Minister will be sworn in as Prime Minister. I am confident that he will be accorded the same collaboration and friendship that I have enjoyed during my tenure in office. Before I conclude, however, I renew my appeal to the United Kingdom to take all measures to complete the process of the decolonization of Mauritius. For years, Mauritius has consistently reaffirmed its sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago, including Diego Garcia, here and in all international forums. I sincerely regret that this issue has not been resolved. I therefore reiterate our appeal to the United Kingdom, as a country known for its fair play and for championing human rights, and to our friends in the United States, to engage in a serious dialogue with Mauritius over the issue of the Chagos Archipelago so that an early solution may be found. The removal of the Chagossians under false pretences resulted in gross violations of human rights. Hopefully this aspect of the matter will be resolved through the British courts shortly. I also appeal to the French Republic, with which we have excellent relations, to resume the dialogue with a view to returning Tromelin island to Mauritian sovereignty. With those words, I bid the Assembly goodbye.  ﻿Allow me to convey to this Assembly the heartfelt greetings of the Government and people of the Republic of Vanuatu. I should like first of all to sincerely congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the Presidency of the fifty-eight session of the General Assembly. You have assumed the Presidency at an extremely difficult, unsettled and complex time. A series of regrettable events have imperilled the political and ideological authority which is the universal foundation of the United Nations ability to work for the maintenance of peace and security in the world. Given the enormity of the challenges that now face us, my delegation — and I personally — would like to solemnly assure you of our support and full cooperation. The job of the Secretary-General is one of the most difficult jobs, in particular when the very founding principles of the Organization are being compromised or simply discarded in favour of the interest of some Members. The Government of Vanuatu admires the outstanding authority and clear-sightedness as well as the diplomatic qualities of Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations. His wisdom and his persistence have enabled Member States to step up their efforts to make the work of the United Nations more effective and better adapted to the maintenance of peace throughout the world, while keeping the focus on development priorities such as, in particular, the small economies of island States such as Vanuatu. Quite frankly, we are participating in this meeting somewhat confused about the future of our Organization, since a minority of Powers are influencing the system to advance their own interests and to the detriment of the principles and mandates which are the prerogatives of the United Nations. The United Nations mission, inter alia, is to work for peaceful coexistence among peoples and nations. But the United Nations is being thwarted because of the unilateral initiatives of certain Powers. This is the responsibility of its Members, and this situation has to be addressed in order to restore the central role of the United Nations in conflict settlement. We cannot conceive of any unilateral action in the future without the risk of paralysing the Organization itself. The decline of order and justice and the various conflicts that are occurring throughout the world are particularly disquieting. If the international system continues to be influenced by certain Powers, the future will remain uncertain, notwithstanding the individual efforts made by Member States and despite the countless resolutions adopted by this Assembly. In recent years, the international geopolitical environment has been dramatically shaken. Irresponsible actions have unleashed much hatred and 4 bitterness, which jeopardizes world peace and harmony. The fundamental principles that justified the existence of the United Nations are now being called into question and we are duty-bound explicitly and clearly to redefine the new objectives and to strengthen the founding principles of the United Nations. Many tragic events have occurred and countless innocent lives have been destroyed. These are the facts of the world today. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the members of the Secretariat who tragically lost their lives in the line of duty and to convey condolences to the United Nations Secretariat as well as to the families of the victims of that brutal and horrendous act. That barbaric and inhuman act of violence saddens us all. I join with previous speakers in condemning that brutal act. Unfortunately, some of us have contributed to the current situation. A brief overview of past events definitely shows that various world conflicts, wars, famines, droughts, epidemics, poverty and environmental degradation are on the increase. Many developing countries are facing a variety of development difficulties, such as the increase in unemployment that contributes to the degradation of societies. In many cases, the destruction of social and cultural progress, caused by globalization and modernization, has increased feelings of hatred and bitterness. The main outlines for future development have been mapped out but the success of the implementation of this remains dependant on political will, particularly the financial commitments of the industrialized countries. However, I am still optimistic and I trust in your wisdom, Mr. President, to guide us to a better future. While counter-terrorism and normalization in some countries are on the agenda, we should not divert our attention from the development issues that can undermine the future of developing countries. Considerable resources will be devoted to security questions, when only a tiny share of this amount would be enough to meet the needs of the developing countries. The environment is another area of concern. We support previous statements by representatives of the island States of the Pacific, and we continue to encourage countries that have not yet done so to ratify the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible. How can we explain to our peoples that certain international obligations are priorities only for the small States, whereas the super-Powers seem hardly to be concerned about them, or are even hostile to them, and yet do not hesitate to impose a series of conditions which contribute to the underdevelopment of small States and which we could describe as political and economic interference? The unilateral imposition and maintenance of the ban on the sale of products containing kava in Europe is an example of this discriminatory attitude. The European countries involved do not seem to take account of the scientific studies establishing the absence of any link between kava and kidney disease, a link suggested by the health authorities of some European countries. The threat of economic sanctions by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) against tax havens in the Pacific, while excepting European jurisdictions, leaves no alternative than to accept the conditions imposed without any consideration of the economies concerned. Since our acceptance in principle of the OECD conditions we have received no indication from that organization of any quid pro quo that it can provide in the case of economic loss. Despite the opposition of the Pacific region to the transportation of nuclear waste in the waters of our region, certain Powers show a complete lack of respect for the sovereignty of the small islands States of the Pacific. It is not only a question of the environment and of protecting our natural resources against any disaster; it is much more a question of ethics. In other words, we regret the complete lack of respect for the small island States of the Pacific as fully fledged members of the international community. It is generally recognized today that trade is the engine of development. However, like other countries of similar size, Vanuatu is facing certain tariff and non- tariff restrictions which are causing our agricultural products to be inaccessible to, in particular, markets that are often described as free. Bringing national laws into line with international conventions carries costs that are often disproportionate for the small countries. In almost all cases, national resource constraints, financial as well as technical, are ignored, whereas they must be taken into 5 account for the success of any programme of action resulting from international commitments. We must not lose sight of the basic principle of the right to self-determination. We reiterate that the credibility of the United Nations rests on following up the implementation of any reform aimed at recognizing the right of peoples to self-determination, in the context of respect for others and for the United Nations Charter. We therefore applaud the efforts by the Government of Indonesia to open and maintain dialogue with the various social and minority constituents, as well as those in West Papua, in respect for human rights and freedom of expression. We welcome the positive role and efforts of Australia and New Zealand, after an unprecedented decision by the countries of the region, to restore and maintain order, security and peace in the region, and in particular in the Solomon Islands. We applaud the French President, Mr. Jacques Chirac, for having initiated a summit meeting of heads of State and Government of the South Pacific region, held last July, in order to strengthen our cooperation. I trust in your wisdom, Mr. President, to make sure that all the theories expounded in the Assembly are followed by concrete, practical action. We have a duty to work collectively through the multilateral institutions to help resolve and overcome the difficulties and challenges that face us. In order to do that, we need to constantly review the very structure of the United Nations. The various unilateral initiatives have highlighted the limits of the current structure which have caused a weakening of the multilateral approach. Many super-Powers are unwilling to share even a part of their authority within the United Nations and seem to prefer the status quo. The principles of democratization and transparency advocated by most Members must be taken into account in the reorganization and in the Organization’s decision- making process. My delegation supports changing the permanent membership of the Security Council to include Japan and a representative of the African continent, of the Middle East and of the Alliance of Small Island States. This reform would give the Organization greater transparency, restore confidence in it and improve international cooperation. My delegation strongly supports the proposals made, and in particular the nomination of a group of leaders representing the various regions and the main categories of economies in order to launch this important proposal. This long awaited review will finally come about. We need to take this great opportunity to renew and strengthen the United Nations in order to give it the qualities it needs to meet the challenges of our time. Strengthening the cohesion and unity of our great community of nations will be a daunting challenge, one which we are prepared to meet, while offering our complete and unconditional support. We have aired our concerns in order to stress the injustices and contradictions in the current situation, but we assure the Organization of our support and our commitment to seeing the Organization revitalized, capable of meeting the aspirations of all its Members, whether large or small, rich or poor, strong or weak. The contradictions of principle, mounting terrorism, human suffering, and the emergence of conflicts in regions that are normally peaceful, combined with the injustices of globalization, are all ingredients for a future catastrophe. In conclusion, my delegation remains convinced that only a reinvigorated United Nations can contribute in a lasting manner to world peace and security. ﻿I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the fine work done by your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan. All of us were shocked by the terrorist attacks on United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. In last month’s attack the precious lives of several innocent United Nations staff members were lost, including that of Sergio Vieira de Mello, the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The world must not be intimidated by terrorism. The role of the United Nations as a guarantor of collective security is irreplaceable. Global security is the responsibility of all nations, just as we are all equally bound by international law. Nicaragua has come to the General Assembly to make suggestions with regard to the building of a new world order and to cooperate actively within the multilateral system to combat, among other scourges, terrorism, corruption, drug trafficking, the illegal trafficking in arms and persons, and transnational crime, all of which are harmful to strengthening democracy and the progress of the world. That is why we have begun a new era in Central America, in which the region will be more united than ever before and serve as a model for democratic security that includes an innovative strategy to overcome both traditional challenges and modern threats. At the meeting of Central American Presidents that took place in Guatemala on 17 July 2003, I made a proposal for a programme for arms limitation and control in Central America to achieve a reasonable balance of forces and to foster stability, mutual trust and transparency. The idea behind my Government’s proposal is to establish the necessary controls to achieve a reasonable balance in defence forces; to put in place modern policies for regional defence and public security while strengthening mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of disputes. The Central American Presidents meeting in Belize at the beginning of this month enthusiastically approved that plan. I am also pleased to inform the General Assembly that technical teams have already begun to work to implement the plan. In the current situation, the subject of international trafficking in small arms and light weapons is equally worthy of our attention. Nicaragua will soon be the site of a major project to achieve progress in that area. Drug trafficking is global threat that constitutes an assault on democracy and its institutions and imperils comprehensive human development. Due to our privileged geographical position, international organized crime is continuing to attempt to make inroads into our region in order to make it a gateway between producers and consumers of illicit substances. We have cut off its advance in Nicaragua, a country that enjoys high levels of domestic security. However, it is essential that we strengthen the cooperation of all international actors on the basis of shared responsibility to prevent the expansion of organized crime and increased drug use. My country’s commitment to democratic security is consistent with the struggle for peace and the establishment of a just international order. A country that has experienced war, like Nicaragua, is in a better position to make a more effective contribution to preventing war than countries that have not. We Nicaraguans have suffered the horrors and the aftermath of war. It is for that reason that Nicaragua has the ability to make a contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security. It is also for that reason that I have come to General Assembly, namely, to convey to the Assembly the resolute desire and just aspirations of my Government and people to be elected as a non- permanent member of the Security Council for the 2006-2007 term. Our candidacy has garnered increasingly strong support, which we hope to strengthen decisively in the coming months. The fight against corruption is an unrelenting undertaking for my Government. We have achieved major successes and are proud to know we have set an example that is already being emulated by some of our sisterly countries. I wish to express my gratitude for the support of the international community, which understood our desire to bring morality to public administration. Corruption is the cause of many evils, and it takes a huge toll on the economy, in addition to undermining public and private institutions. Nicaragua greatly appreciates efforts to develop a United Nations convention against corruption. In that 6 regard, we also welcome the progress made during the sixth round of meetings in Vienna, which will provide a solid foundation for the establishment of international legal norms to help combat that scourge, thereby strengthening political stability in our countries. However, the fight against corruption in my country also requires a strengthening of the judicial and electoral systems. Resistance to change makes it difficult to make progress in those areas at the pace and scope required to meet my country’s needs. I therefore recently presented to Nicaragua’s political, economic and social actors my proposal for a national development plan, in order to obtain the input of all segments of Nicaraguan society. That plan also specifies the actions to be taken by every State entity in evaluating and modifying the plan to achieve the country’s comprehensive development. Nicaragua needs foreign assistance. That assistance should be coordinated in a manner that takes into account national plans and strategies pertaining to how assistance is utilized. The quality, effectiveness and impact of such cooperation should be improved by employing new ideas that lead to tangible results in the area of sustainable development. Additional new resources will also be necessary to fulfil the Millennium Development Goals. We appreciate the United Kingdom’s proposal for an international financing facility as a way to increase the flow of short-term resources by issuing negotiable instruments backed by future assistance. Cooperation in solidarity by the international community has been particularly meaningful in the area of mine clearance in my country, where substantial progress has been made, thanks both to the fine work of national and international institutions participating in that humanitarian endeavour and the professionalism of the our army’s sappers. Nicaragua is also a thankful country. On several occasions, we have received significant amounts of humanitarian assistance from many countries. As a token of our gratitude, we have made our small, but full, contribution of humanitarian assistance to neighbouring countries in need. We are now taking part in the purely humanitarian mission involving mine clearance and the provision of medical support for the civilian population in Iraq. However, international cooperation alone is not enough to achieve economic development. We must promote a more equitable international trade system through the World Trade Organization. In other words, what good is cooperation for productive development when there are tariff and non-tariff restrictions on trade? We want fair treatment. That is the issue, and we hope the developed countries will support us in bringing about a new trade relationship with developing countries — such as Nicaragua. With fair treatment and with markets for our products, we will have a more competitive Central American market and will attract greater investment in order to generate more jobs at fair wages, reaping the benefits of the region’s strategic geographic location. The Central American integration process has made much progress and has been one of the pillars of my foreign policy. We have achieved our most notable results in economic integration, and we have paved the way for successful negotiation of free-trade treaties with other countries and regions, such as the one we are currently working out with the United States. Nicaragua will insist on preferential treatment in our negotiations because our economy is less developed, very open and highly dependent on trade and external financing. With greater development and wealth generation, we will keep our citizens from migrating to the North or to other countries. Peace is still only a hope in some regions of the world. Nicaragua advocates multilateral action to find peaceful solutions in keeping with international law. We are concerned at the escalation of the situation in the Middle East and its consequences, which is why we believe that the international community must contribute, through the United Nations, to finding a just and lasting peace in the region. My Government supports an immediate resumption of the peace process begun this year through the peace plan known as the road map. We confirm our commitment to strengthening the universal vocation of the United Nations so that all peoples of the world, without exception, can be fairly represented in it. That is why I reaffirm before the Assembly the importance of considering the desire of a people with legitimate representation — the Republic of China — to participate as a full-fledged member of the United Nations. 7 Nicaragua recognizes its responsibility in the building of a new international order that is more humane, more just and more secure. It has been our lot to live through difficult times since that fateful day of 11 September. Let us be capable of building a different world, so that future generations will not blame us for a lack of consensus on humanity’s problems requiring urgent action. Nicaragua is aware of that responsibility, and therefore we pledge to work with other Member States to defend multilateralism and to overcome current security problems, remaining united in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations and in strict adherence to and respect for international law. May God bless the Assembly, may God bless the United Nations, may God bless all peoples of the world, and may God always bless Nicaragua. ﻿On behalf of the Uganda delegation, I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that, under your able leadership, we shall achieve the objectives of our deliberations. Let me also thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the excellent leadership he has provided to the United Nations during a very trying and difficult year. My country attaches great importance to the centrality of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security and in fostering international development cooperation. In that regard, Uganda hopes that this session of the General Assembly will focus on the critical reform of the United Nations to meet the new challenges to multilateralism. Terrorism has reached epic proportions as a threat to international peace and security. Particularly since 11 September, terrorist organizations have indiscriminately attacked, killed and maimed thousands of innocent civilians in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Europe and the Americas. In northern Uganda, a terrorist organization called the Lords Resistance Army has killed hundreds, displaced thousands and abducted children into forced recruitment and sale in slavery. On 19 August, the terrorists chose to strike at the heart of the United Nations. They attacked the United Nations offices in Baghdad. That callous attack led to the death of innocent Iraqis and many members of the United Nations staff, including the Secretary-General’s Special Representative, Sergio Vieira de Mello. On behalf of the Government and people of Uganda, I wish to express sincere condolences to the Secretary- General and to the bereaved families. We must condemn those acts of terrorism in the strongest terms, and the international community must unite to fight this scourge. Under no circumstances should indiscriminate use of violence be justified. We must acknowledge that the emergence of new threats such as terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, combined with genocide and the massive violation of human rights, poses a clear and present challenge to the United Nations. My country, therefore, shares the view of the Secretary-General that the time has come to examine the fundamental policy issues and structural mechanisms that may be needed to deal with these new challenges. We support his proposal to establish a group of eminent persons to make recommendations regarding the necessary reforms of the Security 2 Council and other United Nations institutions and processes. On the situation in the Middle East, Uganda welcomes the Quartet-led road map for a comprehensive settlement. We support the establishment of a Palestinian State living side by side and in peace with Israel, within secure and recognized borders, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. I now turn to the Great Lakes region of Africa. We are pleased to note that there have been positive developments as a result of regional and international efforts to build peace and stability in the region. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Transitional Government of National Unity has been established in accordance with the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement and the related Pretoria and Luanda Agreements, as well as the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. Uganda remains committed to supporting the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including ending the Lendu-Hema inter-ethnic conflict in the Ituri Province. Uganda encouraged the Security Council to establish a robust force of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), under Chapter VII, for peacekeeping operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including the disarmament, demobilization, rehabilitation, resettlement and reintegration of negative forces. In that regard, Uganda welcomes Security Council resolution 1493 (2003). My country provided Entebbe airbase for logistical support to the European Union-led stabilization force in Bunia in July, 2003. We have also concluded an agreement with MONUC to utilize Entebbe airbase, as well as the Kasese and Arua Airports, for United Nations operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. With regard to the situation in Burundi, the implementation of the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement remains on track, under the regional initiative presided over by President Museveni of Uganda and facilitated by Deputy President Zuma of South Africa. The African Union mission in Burundi has been established. We call upon the international community, including the Security Council, to provide the necessary support for the mission. On the situation in the Sudan, the Government of Uganda commends the Government of the Sudan and the Sudan People’s Liberation Army for the historic agreement on security arrangements, signed in Naivasha, Kenya, last week. We urge the parties to expedite the negotiation of the remaining issues so that a comprehensive agreement can be reached. The restoration of peace, security and political stability in the Sudan is not only good for the long-suffering people of that country, but also for Africa as a whole. Uganda particularly welcomed the initiative of the Secretary-General to convene a high-level meeting, which adopted the Principles on Good-Neighbourly Relations and Cooperation between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda on 25 September. Our countries pledged to refrain from interfering directly or indirectly in one another’s internal affairs, including making sure that none of the neighbouring countries’ territory is used to arm, supply or host any hostile elements or armed groups against the other. These efforts, aimed at the restoration of peace, security, political stability and good-neighbourliness, are not only good for the Great Lakes region, but also for Africa and indeed the entire international community. Uganda strongly believes that these are necessary pre-conditions for regional integration and the promotion of trade and investment to meet the needs of our people. To that end, Uganda welcomes and supports the forthcoming United Nations conference on the Great Lakes region. Despite many commitments already made at various international forums, the international community has yet to demonstrate sufficient political will to mobilize adequate resources to meet the Millennium Development Goals and to ensure equitable sharing of the benefits of globalization for all. The failure of the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference, held at Cancún, vividly demonstrates this. Since the Millennium Summit in 2000, important plans of action, declarations and strategies have been agreed upon, inter alia, in Brussels, Doha, Monterrey, Johannesburg and Almaty, for the achievement of sustainable development and the Millennium Development Goals. The challenge for the international community now is to ensure their full and effective follow-up and implementation. The international 3 community must accord special priority to the development needs of the landlocked and least developed countries, in order to facilitate their full integration into the global system. Although official development assistance will continue to play an important role in development, Uganda regards trade as the single most important external source of development financing and productivity growth. In this respect, the Doha Development Agenda should ensure that the least developed countries not only have access to markets, but also attain capacity to produce competitively for those markets. We call upon the developed countries to show the necessary flexibility, especially on the question of agricultural subsidies, to allow for the full and timely completion of the comprehensive agenda agreed upon at Doha. The fifty-seventh United Nations General Assembly endorsed the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) as a home-grown African framework for international development cooperation within the continent. We reiterate the call made last week from this podium by the current Chairman of the African Union, President Joachim Chissano of Mozambique, for strong and effective support for NEPAD by the international community. In summary, my country has supported the call for collective action against terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. We have noted the positive developments in the Great Lakes region and expressed our commitment to building a peaceful and stable region. We have also underscored the need for urgent and effective implementation of agreed upon plans of action to meet the Millennium Development Goals and to assure practical support for NEPAD. Finally, Uganda has reaffirmed its full commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. ﻿This is the first time that I come the house of the peoples of the United Nations. This is also a crucial time in history, as it is for the Organization. A few years ago, the international community met in this Hall to restructure the agenda for the new millennium. We placed pressing issues and commonalities on that agenda, as well as the vision and goals necessary to guide our work. In fact, that agenda became our guide to ensure international peace and security, democratic governance and the joining of efforts to combat the most serious scourges afflicting the peoples of the world. That notwithstanding, a condemnable terrorist attack changed the course of our common agenda and forced all nations of the world to make adjustments to the priorities that had been set. Security then became the key, most pressing and compelling focus of collective action. Honduras rejects and condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, regardless of where it takes place and regardless of its material and intellectual authors. In that regard, our Organization, wherein reside the hopes and desires of all the peoples of the world, also suffered the backlash of that new threat that sows terror and suffering. From this rostrum, I wish to pay tribute to Sergio Vieira de Mello, a victim of injustice and fratricidal hatred. 4 Aware of our responsibilities as a member of the United Nations, Honduras and the Government over which I preside have fully assumed their commitment to the challenges before us. It is for that reason that Honduras today is party to a greater number of international conventions aimed at guaranteeing the security of the inhabitants of the planet. Despite our modest resources, we have responded to Security Council resolutions by sending a clearly humanitarian mission, comprised of a contingent from the Honduran armed forces, to Iraq in order to contribute to the reconstruction, stability and democratization of a friendly people. In the same spirit, Honduras has renewed its commitment to the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara. In addition, along with our sister republics in Central America, we have worked arduously to develop a plan to prevent and combat terrorism, as well as a plan to fight organized crime in all its manifestations. I have also proposed to the heads of State and Government of Central America timely initiatives to increase the exchange of information and to establish a regional regime for arrests that will keep criminals from enjoying impunity simply by crossing the borders of Central America. I am also pleased to report that we Central Americans have moved forward with an agenda to ensure adequate limits and a balance in weapons. That will make it possible for us to invest the resources freed up in priority social areas. We have done all of that without forgetting or setting aside the extraordinary declaration of solidarity and commitment that we have all undertaken to eradicate poverty and hunger. Our commitment and focused efforts have been appropriately reflected in the Human Development Report, which was recently presented in the Latin American and Caribbean region by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). My Government and people were extremely honoured to have been selected as the site of that presentation. It is clear from the UNDP report that, compared to averages in other countries, Honduras has been able to considerably reduce inequality vis-‡-vis its economic growth. In other words, although relatively low, economic growth in Honduras during the reporting period was rather equitable. We have also made very significant progress in social spheres and in the area of institutional reform, and we have benefited from the support of the United Nations in that regard. We would like to express our gratitude for our access to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which has made it possible to considerably increase our focus on those diseases to historical levels. Again with the support of the Organization, we have greatly expanded our school lunch programme. In just 20 months, from an initial figure of 16 per cent, we have succeeded in reaching 80 per cent of the children who were going to school hungry. That programme is being carried out with the support of the World Food Programme (WFP). It also serves as a model for a WFP programme that purchases ingredients for town mayors and mothers of families that are then used to distribute prepared meals. Meal costs in that programme amount to $.09 per meal, which means that it costs $18 to feed a child during 200 school days. We have also achieved considerable progress in the area of institutional reform, thanks to an agreement signed during the last electoral process by all political parties in Honduras, under the aegis of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) office in Honduras. At the centre of that agreement is the fact that an independent superior court of justice has been established. In addition, the main State monitoring body is now more independent, electoral bodies are being made more professional and other reforms of great importance for democracy are being carried out to strengthen the trust of citizens in their institutions. The UNDP has also been involved in our programme to reduce corruption. We have established an aggressive programme to delegate much of the State's procurement to UNDP and other non- governmental organizations in order to ensure honesty and avoid the temptation of corruption. My Government has therefore come to this world forum with facts testifying to our desire to follow through with our commitments to reduce inequality and exclusion. However, Honduras is also here in the hope that the slow pace of human development in the world can, because it must, be overcome with increased and heightened international solidarity. I therefore appeal that the opportunities and benefits of globalization be made more equitable and just for all peoples and nations. In that regard, I should like to refer to the Organization. The United Nations must increasingly be the meeting place for cultures and civilizations. Common effort is essential to achieve the purposes we agreed upon in San Francisco, and which we enshrined 5 in the Charter. We need a more efficient Organization to meet the challenges faced by peoples and to be able to channel our differences towards the peaceful causes we have agreed upon. Undoubtedly, there are pressing situations that require our attention. The situation in the Middle East is of great concern to us. As in other countries, people whose ancestors came from that part of the world live peacefully in our country. They, along with all Hondurans, want peace to be a reality for the Palestinian and Jewish peoples, as well as for others in the region. Hanging by a thread, peace in the Middle East is precarious. It is our clear duty to strengthen that peace. We are also concerned by clashes on the African continent and by the hotbeds of tension that occasionally flare up in Asia, whose consequences, were they to develop further, could jeopardize the entire world. Good sense must always prevail. It is for that reason that we look forward to promising results from the negotiating table. Peace in the world is our peace. We are therefore committed to respecting and promoting human rights. While respecting human rights, Honduras is also committed to combating the various scourges besetting our societies. Today in Honduras we have a very serious problem with juvenile crime, which has reached alarming levels that affect all of our citizens. In that regard, I would like to highlight one aspect of that violence. A number of years ago, criminal activity led to the tragic deaths of a number of young people under the age of 18. Given that tragic situation, my Government established a presidential commission for the physical and moral protection of young people. It also ordered an investigation of this phenomenon whose results were published in September 2002. In addition, we have set up a special unit to investigate the death of minors, which ensures that such reprehensible crimes are punished. In that connection, Honduras has adopted the recommendations contained in the report of the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions of the Commission on Human Rights, which has already begun to produce very positive results. The time is ripe to categorically reiterate that the State of Honduras does not in any way tolerate, accept or promote the killing of children and young people. We have committed a considerable amount of our limited resources to mitigate, and if possible eradicate, this affront to human dignity. It is inconceivable for a violent minority to take hostage and threaten the peaceful and honest majority. Organized civil society is working on behalf of the majority of Hondurans in that effort, and together we are succeeding in reducing the level of crime in its various forms. In order to deal with that evil which is closely related to other forms of international crime, such as drug trafficking and terrorism, whose causes extend far beyond my homeland my Government requires understanding and brotherly support from the international community. We also require that understanding and support in order that we can reach satisfactory agreements with the International Monetary Fund, thereby making possible the comprehensive implementation of the Stockholm Agenda for the Reconstruction and Transformation of Central America. Foreign debt relief must not continue to be mere words; it must become a reality. With the resources freed up by debt relief, my Government and the Governments to follow will have on hand extremely valuable capital to continue to combat poverty, illiteracy and HIV/AIDS and to meet other goals of the Millennium agenda. Cooperation and solidarity is an obligation, not charity. It is an assumed commitment. Honduras hopes that greater and immediate efforts will be made so that the percentages agreed upon for cooperation will become a reality. We also recognize the fact that globalization, and specifically with regard to increased international trade, holds out the promise of growth for our peoples. We are involved in negotiating a free trade agreement with the United States and Canada, and will do the same with the European Union and others next year. However, we would ask more developed countries to allow our products access to their markets, which now benefit from outdated protection schemes. We also ask for the elimination of agricultural subsidies, as well as for better benefits for our producers, who today receive only a minimal part of the value of the fruits of their labour. I would like to refer to the case of coffee as an example of the lack of equity in the added value of basic goods from our region. The recent crisis in the price of coffee beans has led to the unemployment of 600,000 persons in Central America. Over 80,000 small producers, most of whom are poor people from rural regions, carry out coffee production in Honduras. That is an enormous advantage during times when prices are good, because it provides a very efficient mechanism for the social 6 distribution of income. However, the contrary is true now that prices are at historical lows. Six years ago, in 1997, it was estimated that the total value of the retail coffee market was $30 billion. Forty per cent of that amount, which is to say, $12 billion, was returned to producers. Today that market price has more than doubled, to $65 billion. However, producers are now getting less than half of what they had been getting, namely, $5.5 billion; which means that only 9 per cent of the final market value goes to producers. I wish to reiterate that it is essential that we redistribute the benefits of globalization and that we increase solidarity. That situation is not limited to just one of our export products. The actual terms of trade for our main export products conspire against democratic governance, but the Honduran people require, as I have said, clear actions to redistribute the benefits of globalization and increase levels of solidarity. International peace and security require all our efforts. The attitude adopted on conflicts is very important. Hence, Honduras is taking part in two cases before the International Court of Justice. In both cases, Honduras has come forward in peace to seek justice. We are certain that in the case of El Salvador, there will be a positive outcome to the 1992 ruling of the Court. In the case of Nicaragua, we are also certain that the definition the International Court adopts regarding our respective maritime claims will be fully respected. Honduras has always faithfully and strictly complied with international rulings. Rest assured, Sir, of our firm determination to respect in both these cases the decisions of the International Court of Justice. I cannot leave this rostrum of universal conscience without expressing my congratulations to you, Sir, on your election and wishing you every success in your sensitive tasks.  ﻿Allow me first of all to sincerely congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte on his election as President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Your election to the presidency is a reflection of the high esteem the international community reserves for your country, Saint Lucia, and your good person. At the same time, I would like to express our appreciation for the excellent manner in which your predecessor conducted the work of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I would be remiss if I did not pay tribute to Secretary-General Kofi Anan for his strong commitment to the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter and for defending so courageously the ideals on which this Organization is based. The destruction of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, with its unnecessary loss of life, was a heinous crime against humanity and the United Nations. Sergio Vieira de Mello and his United Nations co-workers were in Iraq not as an occupying Power, but to serve and address the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people. This despicable act is tantamount to cutting off the hand that feeds. We offer our sincere and profound condolences to Secretary-General Kofi Anan, the United Nations family and the bereaved families. In memory of the fallen, it is imperative for us, Member States, to accelerate ratification of the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. The recent high-level meeting at United Nations Headquarters on the HIV/AIDS pandemic was of tremendous interest to the world and particularly to many countries in Africa. The AIDS scourge, having devastated entire communities, has also negatively impacted the economic development of countries. In order to combat this scourge, it is incumbent upon the international community to make more resources available, even in those countries where the incidence of the pandemic is reportedly low. My country, Somalia, is reported to be one of those countries in Africa with a very low rate of infection. However, this should not lead us into complacency. Countries like Somalia have a unique chance to prevent the disease from spreading. An AIDS epidemic would be catastrophic for Somalia and seriously hamper efforts for peace and nation-building. It is therefore critical to put into place coordinated and strategic AIDS education and early response programmes to prevent the spread of the epidemic in Somalia. As the saying goes, prevention is better than cure. Recent developments in the international arena present the United Nations with unprecedented challenges. Whether we succeed or fail will depend primarily on the manner in which we address these challenges. In our view, that should be through the United Nations. We have to reinforce the principles of the United Nations Charter through which we can further cement the pillars of international legitimacy on the basis of the equality of nations big and small, rich and poor; respect for the sovereignty of peoples; non- interference in each others’ internal affairs; renunciation of the use of force in resolving conflicts; and respect for human rights. 21 There are Members of this Organization who violate these lofty principles with impunity. Israel is an example in this regard. Israel’s continued occupation of Arab lands seized by war; its denying the Palestinian people their dignity; the daily killings of Palestinian children; the siege of the legitimate leader of the Palestinian people and calls by Israeli officials for his killing; and the suffering and daily humiliations inflicted on the Palestinian people are of great concern to the international community. We believe that these gross violations of international law are not in the interest of Israel or peace in the Middle East. We believe that the Arab initiative, which has the support of Arab States, provides a unique opportunity for achieving a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle East and specifically between Arabs and Israelis. The situation in Iraq continues to be of great concern. The people of Iraq need peace and development. The people of Iraq need to recuperate from the trauma of war and its aftermath. As a country that has witnessed war and its destruction, we know what the Iraqi people are going through. We empathize with them strongly. There must be a commitment from the international community to respecting the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. The withdrawal of the occupying forces from Iraq as soon as possible and the establishment of a truly representative Government for Iraq based on a constitution acceptable to all Iraqis continue to be imperatives. In this regard, the United Nations can and must play the central role in bringing peace to Iraq. A fresh wind is blowing throughout Africa, from the West of the continent to its Eastern and Central regions. This fresh wind is one of hope and peace not only for Africa, but also for the world. This wind of hope and peace needs to be nurtured and sustained by the international community. We welcome the progress made in the search for peace in African countries — the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Liberia, the Côte d’Ivoire and Guinea-Bissau. The latest and most welcome progress towards peace is the 22 September 2003 agreement signed in Naivasha, Kenya, by the Government of Sudan and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement/Sudan People’s Liberation Army. We encourage the parties to resolve the remaining outstanding issues in a spirit of accommodation and mutual understanding. We also commend the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), the Economic Community of West African States, the African Union, the United Nations and individual countries for their valuable assistance in bringing peace to areas of conflict in Africa. I pause to share with the General Assembly the situation in my country, Somalia. We express our deep gratitude to the Government and people of Kenya for hosting us and for their perseverance. We strongly commend Kenya for its active role in promoting peace in Somalia. I also take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General for his valuable support for the peace process in Somalia. The IGAD Partners Forum, the African Union, the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and IGAD are to be commended for their firm commitment and input into this process. The Somali National Reconciliation Conference at Mbagathi enters its twelfth month. A lot of ground has been covered during this period. A declaration on the cessation of hostilities has been adopted and the African Union has put in place a monitoring mechanism. Today, African Union monitors crisscross nearly all areas of Somalia to ensure the implementation of the declaration on the cessation of hostilities. Equally important is the completion of the first two phases of the Conference. Despite such progress, we have been struggling with the last and crucial phase of the Conference for the past four months. This last phase envisaged the adoption of an interim charter, to be followed by the election of an interim head of State and the formation of an all-inclusive Government of Somalia. However, disagreements regarding the content of the interim charter and other important matters continue to persist. The provisions of the interim charter that raise the concerns of many touch upon the shape and very foundations of the reconstituted State of Somalia. It is for that reason that the Conference is currently in suspense and stalled, with the Transitional National Government and at least seven other groups refraining from participation. Any interim charter for Somalia, in our view, must meet certain, basic criteria. First, it must have Somali ownership. Secondly, it must be the result of a fair and transparent process. Thirdly, it must have the support of the Somali stakeholders. Fourthly, it must be enforceable on the ground. Fifthly, it must reflect the 22 unity and indivisibility of the Somali nation. Finally, any Government that is established under this interim Charter should be an all-inclusive one. By the same token, any agreements reached in Kenya must be on a consensus basis, have the support of the Somalis as well as of the international community, and be enforceable on the ground. To facilitate an agreement based on these criteria, a re-evaluation of the manner in which the Conference is currently being run is called for. The IGAD frontline States must observe the principle of impartiality and neutrality, without which no mediation can be taken seriously. Furthermore, the IGAD frontline States must confine their role to that of an active facilitator and attempts to fast-track the process with a view to reaching any agreement in haste and at any price must be discouraged. In spite of the current difficulties, I am here to reiterate before this Assembly the sincere commitment of the Transitional National Government to the IGAD- led peace process for Somalia. I hereby state that the Transitional National Government will rejoin the peace conference in Mbagathi, Kenya, as soon as its concerns are fairly addressed. We do this not only for ourselves, but also for the Somali people, who have suffered so long. I submit that the solution lies in assisting the Somali parties to come to an agreement that is owned by all Somalis, rather than in imposing something against their will. We urge the international community to engage itself in the realization of this goal. We must all work together to ensure that the march to peace in Somalia is irreversible. The international community has an obligation to re-engage in Somalia in a very serious manner and to re-enforce its role as a promoter of peace there at the Security Council and other levels, as it has done with other conflict areas in Africa. It is not enough to observe or to wait and see. Somalia needs serious sponsorship to push the peace forward. Finally, we urge the neighbouring countries of Somalia to scrupulously comply with the arms embargo imposed on Somalia by the Security Council. We strongly urge them to do so in the interest of peace and security in the subregion.  ﻿I would like to begin by extending Latvia’s heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Julian Hunte on his appointment as President of the United Nations General Assembly. Latvia highly values his extensive experience and is confident that he will succeed in his efforts to hasten the pace of reforms within the Assembly. I am pleased that a broad consensus on the main goals of these reforms was achieved during the previous session, and I wish him success in his responsible duties. Three days ago, the people of Latvia made a historical decision that will influence their country’s course of development over the next foreseeable decades, or even centuries. On 20 September 2003, the people of Latvia decided, in a referendum, to join the European Union. In voting for accession to this influential body of free and democratic nations, my country became the last of 10 candidate States to confirm its commitment to a strong and united Europe and to the extension of a growing family of secure and prosperous nations. It is our hope that this extended Union of 25 member States will serve not only to promote the welfare of its citizens, but also to become an even more significant contributor to international stability and worldwide prosperity. The European Union is already the world’s largest provider of development assistance and Latvia looks forward to undertaking the responsibilities and commitments that this entails. This includes taking an active part in the formulation of priorities to ensure that the assistance provided by the European Union reaches those who need it most. Latvia and her Baltic neighbours reappeared on the international stage only twelve short years ago, following half a century of totalitarian rule under Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia. Our success story of rebirth and renewal testifies to the fact that through hard work and dedicated effort the re-establishment of democratic societies and functioning market economies can be realized within a relatively short period of time. Many other nations in transition are now undertaking similar paths of development and reform. Latvia is already sharing its experiences with other 2 developing countries, and will continue to do so in the future. Twelve years ago, when Latvia became a member of the United Nations, the Soviet Union was in the process of breaking up and the Cold War was coming to an end. As the threat of a nuclear conflagration between two mutually hostile superpowers receded, new challenges to world security were coming to the fore, and older ones were showing no sign of going away. Perhaps humanity’s greatest problem lies in its propensity for violence, which manifests itself in all levels of society, starting with the abusive individual in the family household and ending in armed conflict in the international arena. Even peaceful countries with lengthy traditions of non-intervention and domestic tranquillity are finding themselves faced with tragic acts of senseless violence that include the beating and killing of immigrants and political assassinations. The unrest and turmoil in the Middle East, which has lasted for well over five decades, shows no sign of abating and can only come to an end once violence is firmly forsaken as a means for obtaining political ends. Latvia views the road map for peace, which foresees a free and secure State of Israel living in peace alongside an independent Palestinian State as the only feasible means for ending the dangerous impasse that both sides have now reached. The alternative is a continuing escalation of bloodshed, a never-ending cycle of killing and mounting mutual hostility. Latvia is ready to promote the establishment of a lasting peace in the region, under the auspices of both the United Nations and the European Union. We encourage the interested parties to do everything within their means to de-escalate tensions and put the peace process back on track. The establishment of a genuine and lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians would also have an additional benefit. It would remove the Palestinian cause as an excuse for terrorists to justify their actions of murder and destruction. As the events of the last few years so poignantly reveal, terrorism and arms proliferation have become two of the largest threats to world security today. Currently, the international community is deeply divided about the ethics and feasibility of implementing direct military action against Governments that are deemed to support and sponsor terrorism. In the case of Afghanistan and Iraq, where undeniably repressive regimes were removed by force through outside intervention, the military measures undertaken by the United States and its allies will have to be followed by comprehensive international efforts to help those countries rebuild their societies and their economies. I am certain that most of us would agree on the need for reconstruction and security regardless of our opinion about the foreign military presence in these two countries. Within the limited means at its disposal, Latvia has sent humanitarian assistance and military medical personnel to Afghanistan and has dispatched a military contingent to help maintain order in post-war Iraq. As we collectively seek to avoid a clash of civilizations between different societies in the world, so we must seek to reduce the growing discrepancies between the rich and the poor. Poverty afflicts every single member country of the United Nations. About three billion people, or half the world’s population, struggle to subsist on the equivalent of less than two dollars a day. Seventy per cent of the world’s poorest people live in rural areas and depend on agriculture for their subsistence. The Millennium Goal of reducing poverty and of halving the proportion of people earning less than one dollar a day can be achieved only by improving the plight of poor farmers and creating viable agricultural communities. Poor farmers in developing countries cannot compete with products subsidized by the treasuries of the world’s richest countries. At this month’s World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference in Cancún, Mexico, United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan urged the WTO member States to say no to trade policies that aggravate poverty and to say yes to bold and sensible steps that will revive the global economy and set the new course for development. Poverty also provides fertile ground for modern- day slavery and the trafficking of humans, which continues to occur in nearly all regions of the globe. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, an estimated 27 million people are still being bought, sold, held captive, brutalized and exploited for profit. Together with non-governmental organizations that are working to stop slavery, and through international organizations 3 such as the United Nations, our Governments must help those slaves break free from their chains. We all live in a world where such deadly diseases as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and, lately, SARS, to name a few, know no borders. It is only through the continued vigilance of our countries’ health officials and through close international cooperation that we will ever be able to keep those mortal dangers in check. I hope that yesterday’s AIDS conference has strengthened the resolve and confidence of participants to overcome this great affliction. The Government of Latvia is actively pursuing its commitments under the Millennium Declaration to attain the Millennium Development Goals. For example, it has prepared a national action plan to address the needs of children in consultation with local authorities, non-governmental organizations and the children themselves. In cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme office in Riga, it has also established a working group that is devoting particular attention to the reduction of child mortality and the improvement of mothers’ health. During the twentieth century, mankind inflicted more environmental damage on our planet than during all of the previous centuries combined. If we do not devote greater efforts to reducing environmental pollution, including greenhouse gas emissions, then future generations stand to inherit a planet with increasingly destructive climate change and with a forest cover that is restricted to scattered nature reserves. We must avoid reaching the stage at which the Earth’s energy and food resources become irreversibly depleted. People and Governments must be willing to make difficult economic sacrifices for the sake of a cleaner environment. Since its foundation in 1945, the United Nations has seen the number of its Member States increase almost fourfold. It has seen European colonialism, the Cold War and apartheid come to an end. It has successfully brokered the cessation of hostilities in Cyprus, East Timor and other countries. It has provided trillions of dollars of development assistance to numerous countries. Latvia believes that the United Nations should remain the principal world body for the mediation of international disputes and for the formulation of universal rules of conduct that all abide by. However, the United Nations has also been criticized for being slow, unwieldy and ineffectual. Few would disagree that it has reached a point where changes within its structure are required so that it can effectively deal with the new challenges of the twenty- first century. Let us recall that a working group on the reform of the Security Council was created already ten years ago, shortly after the collapse of the bipolar world that had dominated international relations for decades. At that time there were hopes that an unprecedented degree of unity might be reached within the United Nations community. For the moment, however, it appears that any substantial changes within the United Nations will have to await a renewed climate of consensus, which is not likely to precede the resolution of the crisis in the Middle East, the settling of trade disputes and the establishment of greater unity about agricultural subsidies, arms proliferation and environmental issues. Latvia firmly believes in the universal ideals that this Organization embodies and is ready, within the limited means at its disposal, to contribute to their realization. The United Nations presents our 191 Member States with the unique opportunity to work together for the benefit of humanity. Let us hope that our efforts will be coordinated and constructive, so that we may make the twenty-first century one of security, peace, and continued development.  ﻿Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Allow me also to express our heartfelt appreciation to Mr. Jan Kavan for his outstanding leadership during the previous session. I would also like to pay tribute to Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and the United Nations staff members who fell victim to cowardly and blind rage in Baghdad. The dreadful terrorist attack perpetrated against those messengers of peace once again highlighted the danger we face in many corners of the world. In recent years, the United Nations and the entire world community have come up against challenges that threaten the very basis of the Organization and our collective efforts towards global peace and security. International terrorism, a threat with a global dimension, affects each and every one of us. However, it has become evident that many of the new democracies are particularly vulnerable to that threat. Scarce material resources and the lack of qualified personnel undermine their efforts, highlighting the need for further intensified global cooperation. Georgia is no exception when it comes to threats posed by international terrorism. However, despite existing difficulties, and with the active support and assistance of our partners, especially the United States, we have made substantial progress. Georgia successfully completed its anti-criminal and anti- terrorist operation in the Pankisi Gorge. We have freed that territory from illegal armed groups and have seized a considerable number of arms and ammunition. I can unequivocally state today that the Pankisi Gorge, which 9 has been freed of every illegally armed person, no longer poses any threat to Georgia or its neighbours. However, unless the root cause of the Pankisi Gorge problem is settled, namely, the conflict in Chechnya, we cannot consider the problem eliminated. The lesson to be drawn from this experience is that the fight against terrorism, in all its complexity, will be successful only if carried out through concerted international efforts. A single quick-fix operation can cause the problem to resurface at a later stage. Many of the speakers who spoke before me highlighted the importance of tackling the threat of international terrorism in all its aspects. We cannot but share that notion. Protracted problems, and in particular unresolved conflicts that result in the creation of uncontrolled territories, have become a breeding ground for terrorism. It is only a matter of time until we witness greater ties being forged between separatist leaders and terrorists. A vivid example of that is the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia. That territory, which is under the control of a separatist regime, has turned into a safe haven for criminals, traffickers in drugs and human beings, illegal arms dealers and terrorist groups. The notorious Shamil Basayev, who was recently included on the Counter-Terrorism Committee’s terrorist list, has re-established himself as a friend of the separatist authorities and is maintaining active links with the terrorist groups in Abkhazia. In the near future, we will provide the Counter-Terrorism Committee with relevant information on individuals involved in terrorist activities in that region of Georgia. The record of the United Nations in reaching a comprehensive settlement of the conflict in Abkhazia, Georgia, has been less than satisfactory. After more than 10 years of United Nations involvement, we have not come even a single step closer to a settlement. Blatant violations of human rights and ethnic cleansing of the Georgian population in Abkhazia continue unabated. Despite numerous calls, we have failed to correct even the fundamental flaws in the entire United Nations-led peace process. We welcome the fact that, since the last session of the General Assembly, the Geneva process has gained a new dimension. We are hopeful that that will give new impetus to the peace process. I would like to stress that this relatively new development is still fragile and that it should be aimed at achieving results, and not at the process itself. We would also like to underline the importance of the recently held summit of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), which reinforced the previous decisions of CIS heads of States putting forth restrictive regulations on political and economic cooperation and contact with Abkhazia, Georgia. However, despite those positive steps, very little has changed on the ground. In that regard, I am thinking in particular of the illegal unilateral actions undertaken by representatives of the Russian side, and especially by leaders of regional authorities, that significantly damage the peace process. The railway link between Sochi and Sukhumi is still operating unhindered. Despite our appeals at the last session of the General Assembly, the wholesale granting of Russian citizenship to the Abkhaz population has never slowed. Russian passports issued to the inhabitants of the secessionist region have already fallen into hands of terrorists, who are making the best use of free passage in and out of Russia through the Abkhaz and Ossetian sections of the Georgian-Russian border, where our neighbour unilaterally imposes a visa-free regime. The illegal acquisition of property — including possessions of internally displaced persons — in Abkhazia, Georgia, by State bodies, legal entities and individuals continues. Needless to say, such acts are being carried out in flagrant violation of international law and represent an infringement of Georgia’s sovereignty. They run counter to the Georgian law that declares any transaction with the separatist regime null and void. The illegal presence of the Russian military base in Gudauta is yet another element that is exacerbating the situation in Abkhazia. Georgia insists that the commitment undertaken in accordance with the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe concerning the removal of that base be implemented expeditiously and transparently. But there must still be hope — hope that we will not again fail the 300,000 internally displaced persons and refugees, whose patience is running thin. Efforts must be redoubled to persuade the Abkhaz side to accept the so-called Boden Document, on the distribution of constitutional competences between Tbilisi and Sokhumi, as a basis for political negotiations. 10 We have repeatedly noted the failure of the peacekeeping forces of the Commonwealth of Independent States to provide security for returnees. In fact, those forces — which do not even have a United Nations mandate — have done no more than sustain the status quo, virtually functioning as border guards between Abkhazia and the rest of Georgia. We cannot hope for any improvement in the situation unless the United Nations takes upon itself the launching, in an internationalized format, of a full-scale peacekeeping operation in Abkhazia. It is through an increased role on the part of the United Nations and through the will of the international community that the unheeding Abkhaz separatists can be forced to compromise. Failing that, the Government of Georgia will have no other choice but to request the Security Council to resort to the measures envisaged under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. The Secretary-General and many other world leaders have duly recognized that the United Nations is passing though one of the most critical phases of its history. New global realities have made it clear that immediate measures ought to be undertaken if we want to ensure the sustainability of the United Nations and to strengthen the confidence of Member States in the Organization. In his statement before the forty-seventh session of the General Assembly, in 1992, President Shevardnadze of Georgia stated: “There is no need to fear reforms when reforms are so necessary, especially, in our view, in the two interrelated fields of peacekeeping and nation-building in the newly independent States.” (A/47/PV.12, p.36) Those sentiments have been duly echoed during the current Assembly session. We should be courageous enough to recognize that reform of the United Nations is essential for the interests of each of us, as well as for our collective good. It is our belief that Member States can rally around the Secretary-General in his call for the creation of a high-level panel of eminent personalities charged with a multitude of tasks aimed at reforming the United Nations. I reaffirm Georgia’s support for expansion of the Security Council. We join the calls to grant Germany and Japan permanent seats on the Council and to increase the number of non-permanent members. Moreover, the decision-making process within the Council should be made more transparent and democratic to ensure that the adoption of necessary resolutions does not fall prey to special, narrow interests. As we continue to collectively witness changing global realities, the Government of Georgia welcomes the increasing role of regional structures in achieving the fundamental objectives set forth by the United Nations. The efforts of European and Euro-Atlantic structures in the Balkans is just one successful example in that regard. Another vivid example is Afghanistan, where NATO has taken a leading role in the peace- building operation. That organization’s role will increase further as a result of its recent expansion. Security issues have become a serious concern for such regional organizations as the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization and the GUUAM Participating States — Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Republic of Moldova. Here, we should like to appeal to Member States for support for the GUUAM’s efforts to be granted observer status in the General Assembly. The Millennium Summit and the decisions taken there remain, in our view, one of the most significant achievements of the United Nations. The consensus achieved both at the Monterrey and the Johannesburg Summits are road maps for the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. The Government of Georgia supports the objectives and strategies set forth in both outcome documents, considering it imperative that the international community remain on course. Globalization is becoming an everyday reality. Advances in modern technologies are making that process irreversible. However, it is up to the United Nations to take a more active role in guaranteeing equitable distribution of resources among all nations of the world. It is through increased cooperation, through the streamlining of actions within the United Nations and its bodies, and through the establishment of new partnerships that the Organization must prevail in achieving global sustainable development. Despite rapidly changing global realities, one thing remains constant: there is a greater need and a greater demand for the United Nations. We remain hopeful that common sense and a common vision of the future will prevail in this unique international body. For our part, we are prepared to do our utmost towards that end. ﻿On behalf of the Government and people of Nigeria, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as the President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I 18 assure you of the cooperation and support of my delegation in ensuring a successful outcome to this session. Permit me also to acknowledge the excellent work done by your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan. I also wish to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tireless efforts, vision and leadership, and for his inspiring address to the General Assembly this morning. In recent months, many voices inside and outside of Governments have questioned the utility, relevance and efficacy of the United Nations, the only universal multilateral tool at our disposal. Even more tragically, sinister forces have taken aim at the United Nations and its dedicated staff, as demonstrated by the senseless attack on the United Nations compound in Baghdad. My Government once again joins the international community in condemning that heartless action, which claimed the lives of so many talented and dedicated staff members. We share the sorrow of the Secretary-General and his staff, and extend our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. In that connection, I wish to reaffirm my country’s total commitment to, and support for, our Organization. My Government is deeply concerned about the persistence of conflicts in many regions of the world, and in particular in our subregion of West Africa. The conflict in Liberia has again tested the will of the international community to respond proactively to conflicts and to the humanitarian catastrophes they leave in their wake. The decision of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to deploy troops to Liberia in the face of obvious hesitation by the international community and despite the strain it placed our resources was therefore indicative of our determination to show that we will not stand by wringing our hands when such catastrophic events occur in our neighbourhood. We are greatly relieved that our forward deployment of troops and the initiative to remove the former Liberian President from the scene have had such an immediate calming effect, which will hopefully be further reinforced by the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping force. I therefore wish to assure the General Assembly that Nigeria appreciates the decision taken by the Security Council in resolution 1509 (2003), of 19 September 2003, to authorize a multisectoral peacekeeping mission in Liberia in order to continue the achievement of the ECOWAS initiative. I should like to emphasize the fact that if regional organizations are to play the lead role that the United Nations is increasingly demanding, the international community will not be able to escape its own responsibility to do much more to strengthen the requisite capacities of such organizations. Let me now turn to another subject that is closely related to the conflicts in Africa. The proliferation of small arms and light weapons has been identified as one of the major factors fuelling conflicts. An effective strategy to deal with that proliferation entails controlling the illicit trade in that category of weapons emanating from the countries where they originate, as well as controlling their transfer to intermediaries and arms merchants. We therefore call for an early conclusion of negotiations on a legally binding international instrument to control the indiscriminate supply of small arms and light weapons, especially to non-State actors. In keeping with our commitment to the eradication of those weapons, ECOWAS has already established and renewed a moratorium on the importation of small arms and light weapons. To make that moratorium as effective as intended, we call for effective cooperation on the part of all producing countries. In April 2003, the people of Nigeria reaffirmed their commitment to good governance and democracy by holding successful elections. Following our 1999 elections, which marked the transition from military to civilian Government, last April’s election represented both our first civilian-to-civilian transition and a consolidation of our democratic process. I consider my re-election to a second — and under our Constitution, my last — term of office not only as a vote of confidence but also as a great challenge to deliver the dividends of democracy to our citizens. To meet that challenge, my Government has developed a programme of economic reforms, the National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS). The programme, which places people first, is aimed at laying a solid foundation for sustainable socio- economic transformation and poverty eradication. By its design, it will strengthen governance, enhance transparency, intensify the fight against corruption and develop infrastructure — especially in the areas of electricity, water and roads. It also places high priority on food security, agricultural development and the promotion of small- and medium-scale enterprises. 19 I believe that that ambitious economic reform will constitute an important national contribution to the attainment of the targets of the Millennium Development Goals and of the objectives of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). In that connection, my Government’s new reform programme is a clarion call to national mobilization and re- orientation. However, it also envisages active cooperation by our multilateral and bilateral partners. We are all too well aware that the development of our agricultural sector, by which the majority of our people still earn their living, cannot be successful as long as huge subsidies to agriculture in the developed countries continue. My Government, therefore, wishes to use this forum to call again for the reform of the system of subsidies to agricultural production, which is strangulating agriculture in developing countries. In this connection, it is regrettable that the reasonable proposals made by the group of developing countries at the recently concluded World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference in Cancún were rejected by their negotiating partners, leading to the collapse of the Conference. Creating conditions of fair and undistorted trade would be the most effective way of providing additional resources to developing countries. This is particularly urgent in light of the low levels of official development assistance and the recent sharp decline in the flow of foreign direct investment. Other areas that we hope the international community will address with determination include the problem of external debt. This continues to be a major obstacle to the development of my country and many other African countries. It is evident that the various initiatives by the international community on debt relief and debt management have been able neither to address nor solve the problems. While appreciating the efforts by the international community in the context of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, we must observe that these efforts have not provided adequate responses or solutions to the problems. This is even more true in the case of the heavily indebted middle-income countries, like Nigeria, for whom no special debt relief mechanism exists, although such machinery was successfully established for countries in Eastern and Central Europe, for instance. Nigeria believes, therefore, that bolder steps must be taken to resolve the heavy debt burden, which for a large number of countries has become unsustainable and a hindrance to development. I am afraid that we have no effective mechanism in place to tackle this problem. Neither the Bretton Woods institutions nor the Paris and London Clubs alone can provide lasting solutions and relief. I therefore believe that this issue is of such significance for the peace and development of such a large portion of the world community that we need to create a mechanism within the United Nations to address the problem in its full scope, based on the principle of the joint responsibility of debtors and creditors alike. We welcome the ongoing negotiations for a legally binding instrument on the repatriation of illicitly acquired funds stashed away in foreign countries. We call for the early conclusion of the Convention on that issue. This Convention is expected to make more resources available for development and show concretely the global commitment to eradicating large-scale corruption, which is at the origin of the funds. In this connection, I must say that the experience of my country has been one of only lukewarm cooperation by most countries where our looted funds have been traced. Our partners among the great banking nations should recognize that it is contradictory to condemn corruption on the one hand, and, on the other, to hinder us in the recovery of the plundered funds. For our economic and social reform programmes, the funds to be recovered can make a huge difference in meeting our national objectives. I earnestly appeal through this forum for maximum cooperation in repatriating the looted funds. I take this opportunity to thank those countries that have matched their words with actions in assisting us in repatriating looted funds. Last year, this Assembly endorsed the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) as the framework for development of the continent. We commend the Group of 8 for their Africa Action Plan to support the implementation of NEPAD and hope that this will soon be translated into cooperation on specific programmes and projects. In addition, we hope that the developed countries will also concretely demonstrate their support for NEPAD. For our part in Nigeria, the Government’s economic reform programme is a commitment to continue to make our contribution to an African renaissance, which will underpin NEPAD. 20 We welcome the establishment by the United Nations of the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa and urge that adequate resources be provided for its mandate to be discharged effectively. The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to ravage our continent, affecting most of all the productive segment of the population. To combat the epidemic, my Government has embarked on a major national programme of action, the highlight of which consists of a nationwide public enlightenment campaign and mass mobilization to deepen awareness and understanding of the disease, the prevention and control of its spread and modalities for providing care and support for people living with the virus. To contribute to the global programme on HIV/AIDS, Nigeria has redeemed its pledge of $10,000,000 to the Global Fund. Let me urge all countries that have not yet made pledges to the Global Fund to do so urgently. Those that have made pledges should kindly redeem them early. I wish to acknowledge with gratitude, the efforts so far deployed by the international community on the pandemic, and to thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan for convening yesterday the high-level plenary meeting devoted to HIV/AIDS. However, a lot still needs to be done in a more concerted way to address all aspects of the problem, including the issue of more international funding and access to affordable drugs. These actions must be taken urgently if the Millennium Development Goal of halting and reversing the spread of this dreaded disease by 2015 is to be achieved. The issue of terrorism has been of great preoccupation to our Organization in the past few years. Several instances of terrorist attacks continue to surface in different parts of the world, involving the loss of innocent lives and vast destruction of properties. Nigeria reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all its manifestations, and joins other Member States in the global determination to combat this veritable threat to national and international security. We support the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee, and reaffirm our conviction that a comprehensive convention on international terrorism will constitute an important instrument for the protection of the individual and collective rights to life. The situation in the Middle East, which we had hoped would improve with the adoption of the road map for a peaceful settlement of the conflict, has again deteriorated. We call on the parties to halt the new cycle of violence — a cycle from which neither side stands to gain. We believe that any violation of the terms of the peace plan by either side does a great disservice to the Palestinians, as well as to the Israelis. We therefore appeal to both sides to demonstrate their full commitment to the implementation of the plan so as to create conditions for the peaceful coexistence of a Palestinian State, side by side with the State of Israel. In conclusion, I would like to comment briefly on the issue of the reform of our Organization so as to make it more responsive to contemporary global needs and challenges. Nigeria has noted with dismay that obstacles continue to be placed in the way of the adoption of any of the constructive proposals for the reform of the Security Council. The changes that are being made in the Council’s working methods to make it more open to non-members are appreciated; however, these are no more than marginal. I wish again to reiterate Nigeria’s long held conviction that what is required is a more fundamental reform that would democratize the Security Council and thus reposition it to enable it to respond to issues of international peace and security in a more comprehensive, objective and effective manner. The overwhelming membership of our Organization demands no less in the interest of its continued relevance. We cannot preach and endeavour to practise participation and inclusiveness at the national level while denying it at the global level of the United Nations, and expect that all will be well. Yet we have no substitute for this universal Organization. That point is now becoming evident in the context of the current situation of Iraq. Whatever the circumstances in which the Iraqi war occurred, the role played by the United Nations will be decisive in resolving the present impasse. Our Organization has now established itself in the post-conflict pacification of States. We can use that vast United Nations experience to our advantage in managing the current post-conflict situation in Iraq. We now have the possibility of an independent democratic Iraq, and we must not waste this opportunity. One obvious point of disagreement relates to the issue of decision-making, both prior to and after the Iraqi war. This may be symptomatic of the deficiencies — to which I alluded — that are not conducive to the well-being of our Organization. Let us therefore undertake the necessary reforms in order to make our Organization work for all of us so that we 21 can deal effectively and adequately with the pressing issues of the twenty-first century.  ﻿Once again, I am delighted to have this opportunity to address this representative audience. At the outset, however, I should like to wish the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly fruitful work — work to successfully harmonize the actions of peoples and States; work on behalf of peace, security and progress. Those purposes were set out in the Charter of the United Nations by our predecessors, but, as we can see, they are still relevant. Even now, they provide a solid, long-term foundation for the activities of the United Nations. And, although the structure and the functions of the Organization took shape in an international environment fundamentally different from ours, time has only reaffirmed their universal importance. Today, the instruments of the United Nations are not merely in demand; they are, as life itself has shown, simply irreplaceable in crucial situations. That has been made abundantly clear by the following important fact: despite sharp differences concerning how to resolve the Iraq crisis, the situation is ultimately returning to the legal sphere of the United Nations. Russia’s position in that regard is consistent and clear. Only direct United Nations participation in Iraq’s reconstruction will enable Iraq’s people to decide their future. And only with active and — I want to stress this — practical United Nations assistance in Iraq’s economic and civil transformation will Iraq assume a truly new and worthy place in the world community. It is clear that, in recent years, the United Nations has increasingly been obliged to carry out fundamentally new tasks and to tackle threats that are different from, but just as serious as, those it faced before. Three years ago, at the 2000 Millennium Summit, I said here that the common enemy of the United Nations was terrorism. Was Russia’s voice heeded then? Did everyone understand the seriousness of the threat, and were our joint actions adequate? The events of 11 September proved that, unfortunately, they were not. To us in Russia, however, the style of the murderers who committed terrorist acts in Moscow, in Chechnya and elsewhere in Russia and in New York, as well as against United Nations staff in Baghdad, has long been painfully familiar. That style is identical everywhere, and the fact that the inciters of terror are easily recognizable — with regard to both the events of August this year and the terrorist attacks of previous years — only attests to the global nature of this threat. It is true that now we are listening to one another. And we understand that the United Nations must become — and is indeed becoming — the basis for a global anti-terrorist coalition. Here, I wish to take particular note of the Security Council’s Counter- Terrorism Committee. Terrorism is a challenge to the planet’s security and to its economic future. Therefore, the Committee must become a real and practical instrument for effectively fighting the terrorist threat. I should like to focus in particular on the humanitarian activities of the United Nations. That area consumes the lion’s share of the Organization’s energy, time and resources, but it does not always appear in the headlines, nor is it always familiar to the citizens of the more prosperous States. But it is precisely that area of United Nations work that is so fundamental and irreplaceable. The United Nations is helping millions of destitute people throughout the world — victims of hunger, of disease and of conflict — to survive and not to lose hope. That work is exceptionally important; it lends indisputable political and moral authority to the entire Organization. And it is here that the interrelationship between the moral and political content of international activities is particularly evident. I should like to take this opportunity to thank all staff members of the United Nations, all non- governmental organizations and, of course, the many volunteers who are participating in this noble work. Because we understand how valuable the Organization’s humanitarian mission is, Russia views it as a major political endeavour. We are already contributing to this work, and we are committed to increasing our contribution. Over the past three years, Russia has forgiven a total of $27.2 billion in debt of 5 developing countries, and we are currently granting significant tariff preferences to such countries. For the first time in many years, as our country has grown, it has become a donor to the United Nations World Food Programme. The horrors of starvation are well known to us from our own history. As a result of the civil war of the past century and the forced collectivization of the 1920s and 1930s, millions of people died of starvation in the Volga region, in Northern Caucasus and in other parts of our country. Hunger became a national tragedy for the peoples of Ukraine as well. We consider it our moral and ethical duty to expand our participation in food aid programmes. Russia intends to work actively to resolve acute environmental problems. A milestone will be achieved in that area by the World Conference on Climate Change, scheduled to convene next week in Russia’s capital, Moscow. We also believe it is essential that a global system be established to monitor and neutralize dangerous infectious diseases, and we consider the work done by the Global Fund to be a real demonstration of international solidarity in fighting the spread of AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Of course, the United Nations, like any system with a complex structure, needs to be improved. But the Organization’s past and current problems have never been problems of only the Organization per se; they have always been created by — and they continue to reflect — contradictions in the very system of international relations, particularly the system of international law. After all, politicians, including those represented in the United Nations, including the Security Council, do not always have at their disposal adequate and effectively functioning legal instruments — instruments that would enable them to deal effectively with the international and regional crises that arise. International law must, of course, be fluid and living, reflecting the realities of the contemporary world. I believe that many of the processes that are under way within the United Nations also attest to the constant changes that are taking place in the world. Such changes dictate a logic of evolution in the United Nations. Members of the Organization know very well that, as a rule, all of the achievements of the United Nations are shared successes, and that our failures are shared miscalculations. Such knowledge, however, brings with it great responsibility. First and foremost, we must be extremely careful about interfering with the fabric — the mechanisms — of the work of the United Nations. Clearly, behind any such decision there should be more than general political rhetoric — mere words about so-called fair policies. I am convinced that any attempt to modernize United Nations instruments must be preceded by serious analysis and careful calculation. Such an approach should be taken, first and foremost, with regard to the principal international legal instruments. After all, guaranteeing that they remain effective is the only way to avoid a legal vacuum. As long as the norms of international law remain unchanged and operative, we must observe them. We must ensure continuity of security guarantees for States and for the world as a whole. We must analyse United Nations structures and mechanisms and try to understand which have proved effective and productive, as well as which have done the job they were intended to do and which now remain unused. We should remember that much of the potential of the United Nations has still to be tapped. There are many resources that we are only now learning how to use. I would like in particular to comment on the need to enhance the effectiveness of the Security Council. I am convinced that, given the deep-rooted nature of the current differences of opinion and the importance of ensuring that the Council remain effective, we must work gradually and very cautiously. We believe that at this stage we should be guided above all by the broadest possible agreement on all aspects of the expansion of the Council, as well as by the need to ensure that it maintains its current high status and the legitimacy born of agreed actions. After all, the Security Council, as the Charter makes clear, acts on behalf of the United Nations. The Security Council is endowed with a specific mechanism for harmonizing political will and for protecting the national interests of a great variety of States, and, through this, the interests of the entire international community. It is true that we often hear that the developed countries bear special responsibility for the destiny of the world. Such leadership, however, entails major obligations, primarily to ensure that the interests of the international community as a whole are reflected. Being a world Power means working together with the world community. Being a truly strong, influential 6 State means seeing and helping to resolve the problems of small and economically weak countries. In that connection, I believe that it would be useful to intensify the work that is being carried out by the United Nations in cooperation with the regional international structures. That will lead directly towards increased economic prosperity in various parts of the world, and thus contribute to the containment of potential threats and the maintenance of a common global strategic balance. We welcome the emergence of regional centres for coordination and cooperation in a united Europe. We favour the strengthening of integration processes in the Asia-Pacific region. And of course, we support the work of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), as well as that of the Collective Security Treaty Organization and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, whose authority and effectiveness are continuing to grow. Russia is not the only country that is interested in regional integration. Our CIS partners have also demonstrated their practical commitment to that same goal. This was reaffirmed during the recent CIS summit. We consider the development of our interaction with the European Union, which is multifaceted in nature, to be important. Likewise, with regard to security issues, we attach importance to the search new forms of cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. We should counter current threats to civilization only by means of collective responses whose legitimacy is not in doubt. In this respect, we need a systemic vision that combines political with, when necessary, military measures. Such measures should be agreed upon in advance, and be sensible and appropriate. The need to improve the peacekeeping mechanisms of the United Nations remains on the Organization’s agenda. The United Nations must be able to deploy peacekeeping — and, where necessary, peace-enforcement — operations more quickly and efficiently, in strict compliance with the United Nations Charter. I should like to note that Russia, which has always supported the peacekeeping functions of the Organization, is prepared to step up its participation in such operations, both under United Nations auspices and in coalition operations authorized by the Security Council. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems remains a serious challenge to the modern world. The most dangerous challenge is the possibility of their falling into the hands of terrorists. We know what steps must be taken in order to eliminate such threats. These include the further universalization of the existing non-proliferation regimes, the strengthening of international verification instruments and the introduction of safe technologies in nuclear energy production. In general, this requires the renunciation by States of excessive arsenals and military programmes that could undermine the political and military balance and trigger an arms race. Russia believes that it is extremely important to prevent the militarization of outer space. We believe that a comprehensive agreement should be elaborated on this issue, and invite all countries possessing potential in this area to join our initiative. The Russian initiative to set up, under the auspices of the United Nations, a global system to counter these new threats has already been supported by the General Assembly. We propose the adoption of a new resolution during this session setting out specific further steps in this direction. In conclusion, I should like to recall that the solid structure of the United Nations has enabled it to withstand all of the many crises of the second half of the twentieth century. It has helped to overcome threats of global confrontation and, most importantly, helped to promote human rights. It has also helped to assert the principles of mutual respect and good-neighbourliness among States. The main thrust of the United Nations approach is that humankind has no alternative but to jointly construct a safer, fairer and more prosperous world. That is our duty to succeeding generations. In that important task we can have no better help than such time-tested instruments as the work of the United Nations, an Organization that, for half a century, took decisions that were crucial for the entire world. Russia is convinced that the United Nations must maintain its central role in international affairs. This is particularly relevant, and particularly important, for resolving conflict situations. This is our choice and our strategic position of principle. ﻿I would like to congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte, the Foreign Minister of Saint Lucia, on his election as the new President of the General Assembly. Singapore is delighted that a fellow small island State and member of the Forum of Small States holds that office. I also join others in paying a tribute to United Nations personnel who have fallen victim to violence or attacks, including a special tribute to the late Sergio Vieira de Mello. The terrorist attack that caused his death has outraged the entire civilized world. Sergio dedicated his life, and ultimately gave his life, in the service of the United Nations. He is mourned and missed by his many friends around the world. We can best honour his memory by reaffirming our commitment to the ideals that he served. The run-up to the war in Iraq saw a heated debate about the role of the United Nations. The United Nations is, of course, no stranger to controversy, but that debate was notable for being framed in particularly stark terms. The rhetoric was inflamed and inflated. It has been variously asserted, with glee or gloom, that the United Nations was irrelevant or irreplaceable, a threat to national sovereignty, the sole source of international legitimacy, merely a tool of the remaining super-Power, or the only way to restrain that super- Power. There are indeed serious issues that require debate, but the simplistic manner in which that debate was framed — in particular the portrayal of a struggle between unilateralism and multilateralism — is, in my view, unhelpful. Unfortunately, that rhetoric has obscured, rather than clarified, the issue. It has oversimplified the debate and glossed over the more complex reality. The danger is that we may believe in the rhetoric and arrive at wrong conclusions about the relevance, or irrelevance, of the United Nations. I am therefore joining that debate with some trepidation, and I do so only to highlight some of the complexities, in the hope that it will contribute to a more balanced appraisal of the United Nations. I shall start by restating some basics. In the 58 years since its formation, the influence and role of the United Nations in world affairs has always flowed and ebbed in accordance with shifting geopolitical tides. The role of the United Nations has been indispensable on some crucial international issues; on other occasions the United Nations has had no role, or only a marginal role. If that meant that the United Nations was irrelevant, then it was irrelevant long before the recent war in Iraq. The ability of the United Nations to act and the kinds of actions it took have always been contingent on how States, and in 30 particular the permanent members of the Security Council, perceived whether the United Nations served their interests. But the United Nations and the United Nations system have always endured. Neither the variable fortunes nor the survival of the United Nations should surprise anyone. The United Nations functions in an international system consisting of sovereign States. Multilateralism and unilateralism were never mutually exclusive alternatives; they are different options in every State’s menu of policy choices. Few States, large or small, would agree to entrust their security or other vital national interests entirely to a multilateral institution. On the other hand, no State, however powerful, can always succeed in achieving its objectives without the help of others. Every State will choose the option that serves its interest best. Furthermore, the United Nations as a total system is bigger than the General Assembly and the Security Council. As we debate the future of international organizations we should not forget that the world has never been more interdependent, and therefore more in need of global governance. The United Nations now has more than 190 Members and has never been closer to the ideal of universal participation. There has never been a period in world history when there have been more international legal regimes and norms regulating State behaviour. The Secretariat is the depository for over 500 international treaties covering the entire spectrum of global activities. International legal regimes and norms are imperfect in their efficiency and observance. Some international norms are hotly contested. Still, the conduct of international relations today does not take place in a vacuum, but within that framework of laws, rules, standards and norms. Nevertheless, there is no escaping the fact that the maintenance of international peace and security is first among the purposes of the United Nations, and the most contested and controversial of its roles. It is also the focus of the current debate over Iraq. It is here that the rhetorical exaggerations I mentioned earlier stand most in the way of clear and rational thinking about the strengths and limitations of the United Nations. Traditional international law recognizes only two grounds for the use of force: self-defence under Article 51 of the Charter and authorization by the Security Council. That seeming clarity is deceptive. Even before the latest Iraq war, traditional interpretations of the Charter had been questioned. The doctrine of self-defence has long been the subject of learned debate. The current controversy over the right to pre-emption is only the latest manifestation. The doctrine of humanitarian intervention — or “responsibility to protect” — so boldly brought to the fore by Secretary-General Kofi Annan, has for several decades challenged the conventional concepts of non- intervention and the sovereign equality of States. Another challenge to traditional approaches has been the threat posed by non-State actors, especially the contemporary menace posed by perpetrators of international terrorism. The problem posed by rebel groups in civil conflicts is another example. In its efforts to respond to egregious violations of human rights, starvation, anarchy and chaos, the Security Council had already stretched both the authority of the United Nations to intervene and the definition of “threats to the peace” and “aggression”. The war in Iraq was not the first time, and will not be the last time, that the Security Council was unable to act. The hope of the late 1980s and early 1990s that the end of the cold war would at last enable the Security Council to discharge its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security has long been shattered. In retrospect, Iraq’s invasion and annexation of Kuwait in 1990 represented an unusually clear-cut violation of fundamental Charter principles. That greatly eased the task of securing Security Council authorization for military action. But the consensus on Iraq was short-lived. By 1994, France and Russia began to call for a road map for the lifting of sanctions. By 1998, the withdrawal of the United Nations Special Commission and Operation Desert Fox marked the end of the Security Council’s consensus on Iraq. Thereafter the Security Council acted in accordance with a complex balance of principles and national interests, resulting in inconsistent and incoherent decisions. In the oil-for- food debates humanitarian concerns about the consequences of sanctions were mixed with the commercial and business interests of some of the permanent members. That did not, however, make the Security Council irrelevant. It merely meant that the Council served as a forum for managing competing interests, an important 31 role that it has played for all its history. After all, while Security Council resolutions have the force of law, they are, at the end of the day, first and foremost political documents indicating the degree of consensus that can be achieved among its most powerful members at any one time. I do not think that it is self-evident that the 2002- 2003 clash of interests over Iraq was qualitatively different from the differences between the permanent members during the previous decade. I do not think that the disagreement over Iraq has permanently damaged the United Nations. The 2002-2003 crisis over Iraq in the Security Council only underscored what we have known all along, namely, that the Security Council can authorize intervention only when the permanent members are in agreement, and that all States, big and small, will do what they must to protect their vital national interests. This is not the occasion to revisit old debates over whether the war in Iraq was authorized on the basis of a continuity of authority from 1990 to 2003. Certainly, as resolution 1441 (2002) recognized, Iraq had been in material breach of several resolutions. My point is that, whatever its eventual outcome, the intense diplomatic effort to secure another explicit resolution for the use of force was itself testimony to the importance attached by all to the Security Council’s legitimizing role. In May, only weeks after a formal end to major combat operations was declared, resolution 1483 (2003) was adopted without any dissenting vote, recognizing that the United Nations had a significant role in post-war Iraq. More balanced views are now beginning to emerge, albeit still tainted by the bitterness of the debates in the run-up to the war. It will be some time before consensus can be reached on the role of the United Nations in post-war Iraq. Some are loath to grant ex post facto legitimization of military action. At the same time, there is reluctance to cede power won with blood. But the legitimacy that the United Nations brings is unique. The debate on the role of the United Nations will continue. It can, and should, go on. But that does not mean that the United Nations should be in paralysis. We must at the same time press on with our commitment to fulfil the fundamental purposes of the United Nations, which, as stated in the Charter, are “To maintain international peace and security”, “To develop friendly relations among nations” and “To achieve international cooperation”. The starting point for that effort must be acceptance of the fact that, while the United Nations stands for ideals that we must never relinquish, the reality is that the United Nations both reflects and shapes geopolitics. Underlying the debates in the run- up to the war, and still infusing the controversies, is acute uneasiness over the distribution of power in the post-cold war international system. But can the United Nations escape that reality? The fact is that the United Nations can operate only on the basis of a hard-headed appreciation of the realities of power. If we allow exaggerated rhetoric about the role of the United Nations to obscure that fact, then we do the United Nations a disservice. The Charter of the United Nations has remained essentially unchanged since 1945. But it has been continuously interpreted and re-interpreted to meet changing geopolitical circumstances and new challenges, many of which were unforeseen by the founders of the United Nations. Today we are again faced with radically new threats, not least of which are the global terrorist networks that respect neither national boundaries nor traditional international law. Clearly, the United Nations needs to fashion new and more flexible rules to deal with these new threats. Yet, at the same time, we must continue to ensure that there are adequate safeguards to prevent abuse or a return to the law of the jungle. Finding the right balance between those equally urgent imperatives will not be easy. But it is not impossible, if we can find the discipline to debate the issues openly and realistically, with a clear appreciation of both the limitations and potential of the United Nations. Recent events in Iraq have shown that the United States needs the United Nations. It is also a fact that the United Nations needs the United States. Since there is a convergence of interests for the two to cooperate in order to achieve our shared interests and objectives, it is surely not impossible for us to negotiate and agree upon a new paradigm of cooperation between the world’s sole super-Power and the world’s only, and indispensable, United Nations. 32 The United Nations is not a panacea for all the world’s ills. Neither is the United Nations a global villain. The United Nations is a political institution. Politics, as is often said, is the art of the possible. There is no need, therefore, to succumb to despair or cynicism. We should turn the page and move on.  ﻿I come before this parliament of humankind to present my final report as a Head of State who believes in interdependence and for whom sovereignty is not a closed door separating nations, but rather an open window affording a glimpse into the identity of each one, furthering the respectful interchange of experiences and the quest for understanding and solidarity among peoples. My presence here reflects Guatemala’s commitment to the United Nations, whose presence in my country has been crucial to the implementation of the Peace Agreements concluded in 1996. It also gives me the opportunity to participate in the debate concerning the main subjects that make up the international agenda, while at the same time allowing me once again to express our solidarity with the inhabitants of the great city of New York over the tragic events of two years ago. I wish to reiterate our energetic repudiation of the treacherous attack against United Nations headquarters in Baghdad that took place just a few weeks ago. We especially regret the loss of valuable officials of the Organization, including the esteemed Sergio Vieira de Mello. I also wish to express our gratitude to Mr. Jan Kavan, of the Czech Republic, for his enlightened leadership of the previous session. At the same time, I would like very sincerely to congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte on having assumed the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. We are pleased to see a distinguished representative of our own region occupy such an important post. We have no doubt that, with his proven abilities and his well-known experience, he will be quite successful in conducting our deliberations. Guatemala, just like its brotherly countries in Latin America, has experienced a dramatic period at the close of the twentieth century. That time has been characterized by a complex agenda involving various challenges, including those of entering into the globalization process, building peace with justice and consolidating democracy in a way that includes good governance. 13 In that regard, during the last four years we have sought to make progress in opening up Guatemala to the world and in making it part of globalization’s technological, financial and cultural currents. We promoted the democratization of institutions, mechanisms, practices and values capable of commingling freedom with authority and effectiveness with equality. We have also nurtured the concept of peace based on justice and respect for human rights. Guatemala is a country where several historical tasks remain to be completed or have been permanently postponed. When I assumed the presidency, in January 2000, I resolved to thoroughly address some of those pending issues. We have freed our country from its captivity by powerful economic interests. There are no longer tax exemptions that favour individuals. Trade policy is no longer manipulated to the detriment of the production of small farmers. Economic policy is now seen as an instrument of social development. After a century of captive markets, local monopolies are now exposed to competition. The Peace Agreements bestowed on Guatemala a programme for democratization. With an eye towards the twenty-first century, the Agreements constitute a proposal for a wide-ranging reinvigoration of coexistence between Guatemalans. But the Agreements have also presented us with the challenge of simultaneously completing various tasks pertaining to different historical processes that other societies have carried out in stages. I am pleased to say that we have made progress in various substantive areas. However, I must also admit that we have fallen short, or inadequately addressed, other areas. Against the opposition of powerful interests, we made a determined effort to increase the tax rate. We achieved a historical level in the collection of taxes, but without attaining the goal that had been set. We carried out the most significant financial reform since 1945 in order to modernize the banking system, reduce the risks of speculation and restore to the system its true mediation function. We modernized the labour law, which since 1944 had suffered a series of setbacks. We consistently raised the minimum wage in real terms at an unprecedented pace. On average, workers in the countryside now earn 50 per cent more than they did four years ago. Our illiteracy rate has historically been shameful. We therefore adopted plans that made it possible to reduce that rate by almost half. Special attention has been devoted to young girls. Through scholarships and school feeding programmes, we have removed tens of thousands of children from child labour. We have also reformed curricula to include the philosophy of the Peace Agreements. And we have considerably increased school enrolment. With regard to basic health care, we have confronted structural weaknesses in the critical areas of child and maternal mortality rates and nutrition. However, much more remains to be done. We are in an unfavourable economic environment. The traditional engines of growth and employment have weakened, and the necessary changes in production are taking place slowly. We have therefore undertaken a massive effort to stabilize the economy and have implemented emergency measures, such as providing small farmers with agricultural supplies so that they can sustain their productive capacity. The issue of transforming the production process is so sensitive that it was a contributing factor in the civil war that raged for almost 40 years during the last century. Recognizing the urgency of the issue, I introduced reconciliation mechanisms in which all sectors participate in an effort to define the country’s strategic policies, including in the areas of economic and rural development. Our people have made significant advances in the area of participation in the past three years. We have carried out the country’s most significant reform by decentralizing our institutions, strengthening local development councils and granting greater powers and functions to municipal governments. Indigenous peoples are now recognized as such and are able to participate in defining a new institutional landscape grounded in their own cultures. Women also have an increased public role and are developing innovative ways of organizing. All those efforts are aimed at reweaving our social fabric, which had been torn apart by the war. Reconciliation is an essential task in that regard, and the Government must foster a favourable climate for it to take place. That is why I assumed international 14 commitments to counter violations of human rights. That is also why we have begun a national compensation programme that includes reparations for the families of the more than 200,000 victims of the war, most of whom were indigenous persons. We also trust that the High Commissioner for Human Rights will establish an Office in Guatemala. Nevertheless, impunity continues to be a difficult issue to overcome. Judicial bodies continue to be weak, which is what led me to put forward an unprecedented temporary measure to strengthen local institutional capacity. I asked for the support of the United Nations in immediately establishing a commission to investigate illegal groups and clandestine security mechanisms, as several repressive groups of the past that are now in league with organized crime are threatening and intimidating human rights activists, judges and journalists. Civilian authority must be strengthened if we are to restore all aspects of democracy. Our efforts in that regard have been clear. We have established a civilian national intelligence agency, as well as a civilian body responsible for presidential security. We now have a defence policy in keeping with the principles of democratic security that was the product of an open debate among the members of our society. We have designed laws to provide for free access to information, the declassification of secret State archives and the establishment of civilian controls over security functions, which includes an advisory council on security. Those efforts are well under way and should be fully implemented during the next few years. Promoting a culture of peace has not been easy. The trauma of war continues to hamper trust in our society. Political polarization also exists, as a result of powerful economic and military groups defending their privileges. However, human life is less endangered and the democratization process continues to move forward. I will fulfil two other basic commitments in the remaining 114 days of my presidency. One of them will be to ensure that Guatemalans are able to take part in a free and transparent electoral process that is closely monitored by the international community and in which all political forces participate without exception. Such an event will be taking place for only the second time in our history during the past century. The second commitment involves carrying out an orderly transition of power that safeguards the reforms begun in the context of the Peace Agreements. To that end, I have worked with my Government team to come up with a basic transition agenda that includes providing for continuity in programmes and policies and the strengthening of institutions involved in the peace process. I would now like to turn briefly to some of the issues we will be dealing with during this session. In particular, I would like to respond to the challenge that the Secretary-General put before us this morning, namely, how to rethink the United Nations in these times of fundamental changes. As I have already said, we fully support the United Nations as the highest proponent of multilateralism. We also firmly support the stewardship of Secretary-General Kofi Annan. We concur with his view that it is imperative that we adapt the Organization to the exigencies of globalization. We will also support efforts aimed at improving the managerial capacities of the Secretariat and at promoting the reform of intergovernmental bodies. We therefore believe that we should not delay our efforts to make the Security Council more representative, and its procedures more transparent. Moreover, we think that it is necessary to strengthen the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council in order that the three principal organs of our Organization mutually support one another. We reiterate our opposition to all forms of terrorism and we support the collective efforts of the international community to combat that scourge. We believe that the United Nations should continue to give priority to the essential issue of development. Along with multilateral financial organizations, our Organization should dedicate itself to the task of ensuring that the benefits of globalization are widely shared among all the inhabitants of the world. We also stress the singular importance of the Monterrey Consensus and the Johannesburg Plan of Action. We express our disappointment at the lack of progress made at the recent meeting of trade ministers held in Cancún. As part of the G-21, we commit ourselves to working constructively to bring together the positions of all parties to produce a more open and 15 transparent international trade regime that provides more opportunities for developing countries. We also underscore the need to give greater importance in the international agenda to the situation of immigrants and migrant workers while focusing on undocumented immigrants, who constitute a vulnerable group vis-à-vis the need to protect human rights. I would especially like to refer to the subject of children and to the obligation of States to guarantee their rights and protection. A case in point is the effort that is taking place in the context of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to re-establish links between three Guatemalan children and their mother, Gabriela Arias. We support all efforts to put an end to the tragic spiral of violence afflicting the Middle East and to achieve a just and lasting peace in that long-suffering region. We associate ourselves with efforts aimed at restoring peace, security and the rule of law in Iraq, as well as to reinstate that country’s sovereignty. We share the view that the United Nations should play a significant role in that undertaking. We support the heartfelt aspiration of the 23 million citizens of the Republic of China on Taiwan to be represented in international organizations such as the United Nations. Guatemala, like all of Central America, believes those aspirations to be a positive force for peace and democracy in the world. We are making our best effort to strengthen the bonds of friendship and neighbourliness with Belize, without prejudice to the search for ways to peacefully, honourably, equitably and permanently resolve our territorial dispute. We express our complete willingness to continue to seek a negotiated solution to that dispute within the framework of the Organization of American States. We reiterate our devotion to, and support for, Central American integration, as well as our solidarity with, and commitment to, all of Latin America and the Caribbean. We live in exceptional times that affect each and every one of our countries, as well as the United Nations as a whole. Such critical moments create opportunities for re-evaluation and change. I hope that God will grant us the wisdom to take advantage of those opportunities, thereby making it possible for us to overcome the obstacles that have served to distract humankind from a future of solidarity and common welfare. ﻿To stand again at this podium today, representing Australia as its Foreign Minister, entering into the great conversation of nations, is an unsettling experience. Seldom has this 31 forum been confronted with so many dimensions of uncertainty, so many challenges to global peace, security and orderly economic reform. Seldom has its own capacity for regeneration to deal with them been so insistently put to the test. Conor Cruise O’Brien, one of Ireland’s finest writers, an official and later ambassador here, famously remarked: “The cynicism necessary in the approach to the United Nations must at some point be made to yield to reverence: the reverence which is appropriate to ... an institution which is humanity’s prayer to itself to be saved from itself.” Recently one of Australia’s foremost novelists, Frank Moorhouse, wrote a meditative essay on this theme. In it he discerned a new pair of parallel world orders: “For the first time in our lives, there are two very powerful agents in world affairs … the United Nations Security Council … and the United States.” He noted that “for all the cynicism about the futility of international intervention, pragmatically, people are being helped daily by the United Nations” and that “visionary and innovative international missions” continue to be conceived and achieved within it. Moorhouse’s estimation of the significance of the United Nations is debatable. But a combination of pragmatism, vision and reforming innovation is necessary if, as I have already warned, this Organization is to avoid frittering away its credibility and influence by failing to exercise its power effectively. In the words of Secretary-General Annan, we should not shy away from the need to improve and, where necessary, change the structure and function of the United Nations and other international institutions to make sure they remain effective in promoting security and peace. I alluded to the global challenges which confront us. First among them is the emergence of the “age of terror”. Where once it was possible to view terrorism as the lamentable legacy of a few unsafe regions, today almost no country has been left untouched. Despite the war on terror — a war we are winning — terrorism continues to be a scourge to which neither age, nationality, religion or political affiliation provides immunity. It takes a considerable act of imaginative engagement to see these new forms of nihilism for what they really are. They are a negation of civilization and of the discourse that sustains it. I referred earlier to the visionary and innovative work which sometimes only the United Nations can do. In that context, I want to pause to pay tribute to the Secretary-General’s senior representative in Baghdad, Sergio Vieira de Mello, well known to many of you here. That such a man, engaged in such vital tasks — along with so many of his colleagues — should have been swept by a terrorist bomb into the silent democracy of death epitomizes the struggle between civilization and the unthinkable alternative. We cannot allow terrorists to succeed in determining the course of world events. We must overwhelm their efforts to disrupt global security and prosperity, to undermine democratic countries or destabilize nation-building. Terrorism has also created a new urgency in solving a more familiar problem — the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Efforts by rogue States to develop and traffic in weapons of mass destruction materials underpin the priority we give to non- proliferation. The possibility that weapons of mass destruction might fall into the hands of terrorists makes it an absolute imperative. Terrorism and proliferation do not occur in a vacuum — except, of course, a moral vacuum. It is no longer open to us to ignore the failed States which have become their incubators or the transnational crime on which they depend. The promotion of good governance and democratization are imperatives both morally and pragmatically. They have become preconditions for international security. Good governance serves both global and national interests, as improved governance will fortify the United Nations itself. Without it, developing States will never be able fully to realize the opportunities that globalization presents: chiefly, the potential to erase divisions between themselves and the developed world. That can occur only if we are all prepared to accept the disciplines that global trade liberalization imposes. While the prospects, post-Cancún, do not seem particularly favourable, pursuing the Doha objectives 32 remains the best way to alleviate poverty and its attendant ills in the developing world. In confronting these challenges — such as security, governance, poverty, terrorism and pandemics — collective action is likely to yield the best results, since not even the most powerful among us can bear the burden alone. Effective regional action also remains important. Australia has built, with its neighbours, a network of bilateral counter-terrorism arrangements. These enhance practical, operational- level liaison among regional security, intelligence and law enforcement agencies that have seen terror attacks prevented, networks disrupted and terrorists arrested. Similarly, we are developing regional approaches to confront the dangers of State failure. Together with our Pacific Island Forum partners, we are restoring hope for a better future to the people of Solomon Islands. This Regional Assistance Mission has already made excellent progress in its efforts to restore law and order and to rebuild the institutions of governance. Requested by the Government of Solomon Islands and supported and implemented by Pacific island nations, the Mission is consistent with the United Nations Charter’s original vision of strong regional efforts to maintain international peace and security. Indeed, we will continue to concentrate on improved standards of governance, which are central to our assistance in our own region. The Pacific Island Forum leaders recently endorsed efforts to promote more effective regional institutions and, where appropriate, the pooling of resources to ensure that services are both deliverable and sustainable. The virtues of collective action are self-evident. But collectivity ought not serve as a mantra which is an obstacle to effective action. Sometimes the most effective means of preserving security — and indeed international law — occur alongside the traditional mechanisms of multilateral diplomacy. Australia is a strong supporter of multilateral institutions and processes, but only insofar as they are a means to an effective end. The major global disarmament and non- proliferation treaties remain critical to setting norms of international order. But ultimately, those instruments must be enforced. States are not merely entitled, but obliged, to take action to uphold those norms, especially when the transfer of weapons of mass destruction outside internationally agreed frameworks is involved. The conviction that States must uphold international norms — particularly in relation to weapons of mass destruction — led Australia to join the coalition to disarm Iraq, and, in the same way, we recently joined with others in what is known as the Proliferation Security Initiative. Australia believes the United Nations has a critical role in promoting international peace and security. First-hand experience in East Timor reminds us of that fact, and we look to the United Nations for continuing contributions to ensuring its stability. Australia also appreciates the work of the United Nations in rebuilding civil society in Iraq. Of the $100 million Australia has committed to humanitarian and reconstruction assistance in Iraq, much has been directed through United Nations agencies. Those are two examples in which the United Nations is playing a positive role. Nevertheless, the role of the United Nations in international affairs is under critical scrutiny, and with good reason. The United Nations, through its Member States, needs to do much more to adapt to the evolving global environment. Australia has long been an advocate of a more focused, efficient United Nations system. The Secretary-General’s reforms to date — in particular the Brahimi peacekeeping changes — have been a valuable start. Radical and fundamental change is now needed. The Secretary-General rightly states that the General Assembly is bogged down with an unwieldy agenda and repetitive and sterile debates. We need to ask ourselves, if much of the activity of the General Assembly — or indeed of the Economic and Social Council — did not occur, what practical difference would it make, and would anyone notice? Again, as Australia has long argued, the composition of the Security Council is out of step with geopolitical realities. The permanent membership of the Security Council should be expanded to reflect the current realities — with the addition of countries such as Japan, India, Brazil, Indonesia and an African nation. We support an overhaul of the United Nations architecture, particularly in the light of new security threats. The functioning of all the major United Nations organs needs to be re-examined, as does the inter-relationship among them. Old shibboleths — such as the excessive homage to sovereignty, even at the 33 expense of the preservation of humanity and human values — should not constrain us. We must end absurd duplication of effort. We should refocus the United Nations on areas where it can and should make a very real difference. But we must be imaginative and bold. The group system, for example, needs modernization. Australia could become part of an East Asia and Pacific grouping, and the old divide of Eastern and Western Europe should be dispensed with to reflect the new, converging European reality. That would form the basis for greater regional cooperation within the United Nations system, for greater engagement and problem-solving on a regional scale. In short, we must work urgently on a bold blueprint for revitalization, which we should consider by the summer of next year. That is why we welcome the Secretary-General’s proposal for a high-level review panel. Real commitment to change — which can be endorsed at a second San Francisco Conference — will be necessary if the United Nations is to rediscover its credibility and its promise.﻿On behalf of the Government of the Republic of San Marino, let me congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte on his election to the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. His election brings us great satisfaction since he also represents a small country, Saint Lucia, like ours. I also wish to express my country’s appreciation for the fruitful work and remarkable abilities of former Assembly President Jan Kavan. It has been a privilege for us to cooperate with him. I cannot start my speech without mentioning the cowardly attacks on the United Nations offices in Baghdad, which took a heavy toll of lives including that of Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General in Iraq. On behalf of the Government and people of San Marino, I take this opportunity to reiterate our most sincere condolences to the Secretary-General and the families of the victims. Furthermore, we would like to express our deep appreciation to the United Nations for the fundamental role it is playing in Iraq during this difficult transition period for the Iraqi people. The necessary conditions for social and economic development will be established only through security and stability, independence and democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. In light of the above, I wish to express the hope that the transitional Iraqi Governing Council, welcomed and supported by the Security Council, may operate efficiently so that Iraq can fully enjoy its right to self-determination, its own sovereignty and establish a democratic and representative Government, internationally recognized and able to guarantee the conditions necessary for the country’s reconstruction. We also hope that the United Nations may further strengthen its active humanitarian and civil role in favour of the Iraqi population, so as to contribute to the rebirth of that nation through democracy and development. We hope that all countries cooperating in Iraq to improve security and order, under the aegis of the United States of America, after assuring a decisive contribution to the liberation of the country from the previous regime, will reach an agreement with this Organization. To this end, the drafting of a new Security Council resolution, the outcome of a lively debate that is going on now, would be a major political and diplomatic achievement. It would definitely pave the way to democracy and progress in Iraq and embody the will of many different Governments under the aegis of the United Nations. 29 In line with its tradition of solidarity, and as demonstrated in recent years through its support of humanitarian projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, the Middle East and in several African countries, often in the context of ad hoc programmes and United Nations special missions, my country will be pleased to contribute to the reconstruction process in Iraq. For the achievement of this objective, the forthcoming conference on the reconstruction of Iraq is particularly interesting. The tragic, painful and unforgettable events of 11 September 2001 have also marked the proliferation of international terrorism and the escalation of terrorist attacks. Today’s gathering in this important forum is a clear indication of our country’s position and its significance is increased by the universal character of this meeting. The creation of the United Nations nearly 60 years ago, at the end of Second World War, attested to a unanimous desire for lasting peace and justice. I believe that at the beginning of the third millennium it is the responsibility of the Organization to reflect effectively the will of States to fulfil that original commitment and keep its original spirit alive through dialogue, mediation and cooperation. Conscious of this, San Marino reaffirms its decision to reject all forms of terrorism and to contribute fully to its defeat, as testified to by the Republic’s accession to several international instruments of the United Nations and European organizations. Likewise, San Marino has promptly followed up on Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and will continue to monitor terrorism at the national level, as can be noted by the implementation of the guidelines to combat the phenomenon of terrorism and its related aspects. Unfortunately, it is evident that terrorism, aside from being inspired by fanaticism and fundamentalism, is too often linked to underdevelopment and injustice; their victims can, in turn, become instruments of violence and oppression. However, terrorism can also be countered through the active support of international cooperation programmes to overcome disparities, poverty, discrimination, the violation of the rights of individuals and peoples, a total absence of opportunities, and, as a result, hopelessness, in particular among the young, who are the future of mankind. Our collective efforts to restore favourable conditions for dialogue and mutual acceptance must not be weakened by the growing concern of persistent, serious obstacles to the road map for peace in the Middle East, where negotiations and agreements are being jeopardized by renewed terrorist attacks, hatred and retaliation. We are convinced that the Israeli and Palestinian peoples must be ensured the indisputable right to live freely in their own territory, where they can exercise their full sovereignty in security and peace. The success of the globalization process under way will ultimately depend on achieving peace and development for all. Within the framework of effective global cooperation, the role played by San Marino is inextricably linked to its tradition of freedom, independence and democracy. Those principles, which have characterized the Republic’s 1700 years of existence, continue to inspire its international policy today. In 1854 San Marino became the first European country to ban the death penalty. My country believes that this issue, which is so important and topical, must remain a top priority for the General Assembly, even though it is not on the agenda for this session. In the field of human rights, the ethics of diversity requires the acceptance of the human condition. In that spirit, San Marino has followed with special attention the negotiations within the working group for the drafting of an international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. San Marino continues to pay great attention to the follow-up given to initiatives on HIV/AIDS being carried out by the United Nations and to the search for adequate responses so as to prevent the spread of new epidemics such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). San Marino is also following with great interest the work of the working group for the drafting of an international convention against the reproductive cloning of human beings, spurred by the conviction that the cloning of human beings is an immoral and inhuman degeneration of biotechnological development and that such an abhorrent practice would be contrary to human dignity. The important ethical and moral implications of this issue cannot be separated from purely scientific questions. We hope that the United Nations will continue to strive for the protection of the fundamental rights of human beings. Additionally, in the area of human rights, San Marino recently extended a standing invitation to the 30 Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to visit the Republic whenever necessary in order better to carry out its mandate. I wish to recall that San Marino was the first Western European country to ratify the Statute of the International Criminal Court, confident that the Court would satisfy the widespread desire for justice and put an end to impunity for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes against the international community as a whole. Let me also express our best wishes to the Court, which is composed of authoritative judges, and convey our hope that it will now be able to work in accordance with the objectives of justice, security and peace on which it is based. We are confident its work will be fruitful and that it will always act independently and impartially. All the objectives set out in the Millennium Declaration could be achieved if an additional $50 billion per year were granted for development assistance, at a time when global military expenditures total $850 billion. We also wish to express our appreciation for the positive achievements of United Nations peacekeeping missions deployed to many areas of the world afflicted by conflicts. Such results should encourage Governments to increase their support for those missions, which promote lasting, sustainable peace and the re- establishment of democracy and the rule of law. San Marino will continue to participate in joint action for the total elimination of anti-personnel mines. In that context, San Marino urges countries that have not yet done so to accede to the Ottawa Convention. The tenth anniversary of the International Year of the Family in 2004 will provide further incentive to reflect on and analyse the living conditions of our populations, paying particular attention to children, the elderly and the most vulnerable in our societies. Such groups deserve greater consideration from society. Society must promote effective projects for education, solidarity and adequate support. Only a few days ago, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child reviewed San Marino’s initial report on its implementation of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The relevant measures now in force will soon be supplemented by new ones in support of the family. In underlining the validity of the reform programme started by the Secretary-General, we deem it necessary to continue efforts to reform the General Assembly, which is the most representative body of our Organization. Indeed, the Assembly should enjoy greater authority. We hope that agreement can also be reached on Security Council reform, and San Marino reiterates its support for the inclusion of a larger number of non-permanent members, in order to make the Council more representative and democratic. Let me stress once again my country’s appreciation for and commitment to activities carried out by the United Nations in building a world of peace, solidarity and development. It is in that spirit that this morning I signed three important international instruments: the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, recently adopted at the fifty-sixth Assembly of the World Health Organization and the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, aimed at abolishing the death penalty. We need to continue our action at the international level despite all the difficulties and tensions that exist, bearing in mind that our joint efforts are essential to finding a solution to the emergencies and concerns of today. Bringing about the necessary changes, we will be able to reconfirm the validity of the basic principles of this Organization. We will responsibly set the conditions for our future and thus meet the expectations of our peoples and our hearts. While expressing my best wishes to you, Mr President, to the Secretary-General and to all United Nations officers, as well as to all Member States. I assure them that San Marino will be at their side in meeting all of these challenges. ﻿Allow me to extend my congratulations to the President on his unanimous and well-deserved election as President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. This is a difficult period for any person to preside over the General Assembly, and I wish him every success. I also wish to thank Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic for his exemplary work as the outgoing President. Last year, while addressing the General Assembly, I referred to the commencement of the peace process in Sri Lanka and promised to report on its progress. Progress in the peace process in Sri Lanka is due to the fact that we stopped talking about talking to each other and actually began to talk. We have been lucky, because the international community did not simply talk about helping us, it actually did so. In moving from conflict to peace in Sri Lanka we initiated fundamental change in policy and strategy. We shifted from confrontation to negotiation, identifying and recognizing the root causes of the conflict. The success story that Sri Lanka is fast becoming also demonstrates the value of the support of the international community acting in concert. That the global community, moving with a common purpose, can succeed in re-establishing peace, democracy and prosperity has been amply demonstrated in the Sri Lankan experience. After 20 years of conflict, our people are now enjoying the fruits of 20 months of peace. The role of the international community in enabling us to move from war to peace has been outstanding. The facilitation provided by Norway has had the result of bringing the Government and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) together in several rounds of negotiation. President Chandrika Kumaratunga's continuing declaration of commitment to a political solution has been invaluable. The moral and material support that our other frontline sponsors India, the European Union, Japan, Canada and the United States, along with the multilateral institutions of the United Nations and the rest of the international community have given, and continue to give to us, has guaranteed that our efforts to consolidate and maintain the peace will strengthen and develop. Last November at Oslo, our international partners endorsed and underwrote a paradigm shift in policy when the Government and the LTTE accepted that the 13 future political order in Sri Lanka would include moving towards a federal polity where the unity and territorial integrity of the country would be ensured. Again, in June of this year at Tokyo, 52 nations and 21 multilateral agencies, many of them of the United Nations system, pledged their support to Sri Lanka's peace efforts, rehabilitation and development programmes. The massive and unparalleled financial contributions alone totalled $4.5 billion over a four-year period. Those are indeed landmark events underlining the value and strength of international action. I must, however, inform the Assembly that, like in all negotiations in a peace process, we find ourselves today at a temporary impasse in the talks. Within the next few weeks we should know the results of a comprehensive review undertaken by the LTTE in response to our earlier proposals regarding an interim administrative arrangement for the north and east of our country. That they should take so much time and effort can be seen as a positive sign. We in turn will look positively at the proposals put forward by the LTTE, and will do everything in our power to keep the peace process moving forward to a successful conclusion. Meanwhile, our collective efforts, which have been handsomely supported by the international community and multilateral agencies, at providing relief, rehabilitation and development to the conflict- affected areas of the country are proceeding apace. Economic growth is marching ahead, from a growth rate of -1 per cent in the year 2001 to possibly 6 per cent this year. And tourism is booming. That has thus far been the story of Sri Lanka. In the recent past there have indeed also been some success stories in the United Nations: in Haiti, Somalia, Angola, Kosovo and East Timor. But they are not enough. The United Nations represents a unique concept for international order formulated by the Allied Powers to address challenges to peace and security and to development and democracy in the aftermath of the Second World War. President Roosevelt, in his 1943 Christmas Eve radio talk, said that as long as Britain, Russia, China and the United States stuck together in determination to keep the peace, there was no possibility of an aggressor nation arising to start another world war. But the world that the United Nations is called upon to represent today is an immeasurably changed world. Today's problems, as the Secretary-General has reminded us, are problems that respect no borders and no laws. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, environmental degradation, alienation and exclusion, conflict, global terrorism, disease and endemic poverty are foremost among those problems. Inescapably, the United Nations remains the central, indispensable forum in which we can collectively and democratically respond to the challenges that we face in common. But the United Nations is under enormous stress. That strain comes from the structure of the Organization itself. As a result, the adequacy and effectiveness of the rules and instruments devised over 50 years ago to bring order and reason to the post-Second-World-War international scene are being questioned. The apparent irrelevance of the current multilateral rules and institutions to deal with the manifold problems of today compel our urgent attention. In the words of the Secretary-General, it challenges our ability to deal with the least difficult issues and to do so effectively'. Hence the rationale for reform which is insistent, compelling and radical cannot be averted; for words without action are meaningless, as we in Sri Lanka have learned at a bitter cost. Take for example the profound issues surrounding Iraq. There are members in the Hall today who believe passionately that the United States and its allies were wrong to intervene in Iraq. Then there are those of us who feel that the United States and its allies had no choice but to intervene, that the failure of the United Nations had created the need for a world policeman, however reluctant it might be. But Iraq is more than a divergence of views on a major issue. It shows the inadequacies of the present collective security system, a decision-making system which grappled with the issue of Iraq for over a decade without a solution and created a deadlock at a most critical time. The United Nations has already paid a dreadful price. The attack on United Nations headquarters in Baghdad not only deprived the world community of some of its most devoted and talented servants but raised to the fore issues relating to the mandates entrusted to the United Nations by its Member States. It represents, undoubtedly, a direct challenge a challenge which must be met. Any reform must be radical, so that in this changed world so different from the one it was called upon to serve in 1945 the United Nations can have the capacity to cope with war, poverty, human rights, 14 terrorism and a dramatically changed environment in which weapons of mass destruction have become so potent a symbol. We have to move beyond rhetoric and from cosmetic change to major surgery if we are to overcome the challenge ahead. Rhetoric is not a substitute for decisive action. Frantic activity is not a substitute for concerted action, and the adoption of resolutions does not make a tangible difference in the day-to-day lives of our peoples. Above all, let us recall that inaction in itself is a deliberate and a considered decision to do nothing. We should not rival the League of Nations' impotence on Abyssinia. The problems we are encountering at the present time compel us courageously and resolutely to address and overcome the fundamental inadequacies that afflict our international institutions and processes. This year has seen the propitious coming together of three events which have framed thus far the political, financial and economic ordering of our world. I refer to this session of the General Assembly, the gathering of the Finance Ministers at the Bretton Woods institutions, and the discussions at Cancun on the reordering of the world trade regime. At all three meetings, the call for structural reform was insistent and compelling. All three the United Nations, the Bretton Woods Twins and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) were born out of the trauma and dislocation of the Second World War. For over 50 years they have served our many causes in varying ways, at times with limited success, at times with despair at their inability to effectively deal with the fundamental problems of the day. After the Asian crisis, the Bretton Wood institutions came under close scrutiny, and today we are discussing how the developing countries can have greater say in their decision-making. Recent experience under the Doha Round of the World Trade Organization (WTO) process at Cancun further illustrates the problems that face us. No one expected an agreed formula to come out of Cancun. On the other hand, it need not have ended in collapse. The Secretary-General's report has identified many of the defects of the system that need to be addressed. Other speakers, too, have made proposals in this regard. At this stage, I should like to mention that, in our view, any expansion of the Security Council as a result of reforms must involve a manageable number, and Asia must be given its due. This was ignored in 1945. While many have urged a radical reform of the structure of the United Nations so as to make it able to respond to the challenges that confront multilateralism at the present time, most have been hesitant to suggest ideas that are both practical and doable. I believe that the time has come for all of us who accept in principle the value of this institution, the United Nations, and the objective it stands for to think out of the box to think creatively, imaginatively and unconventionally. If I were to hazard an approach, it would be along the lines of going back to our roots. The outline of the United Nations prepared at Dumbarton Oaks in August and September 1944 was agreed to at Yalta in February 1945 at the level of head of Government. The Charter was signed at the final meeting in San Francisco, in June 1945. All this was completed in just 10 months. I, for one, would like to suggest that the Secretary- General and a carefully selected group of political leaders themselves come up with recommendations for United Nations reform. Their recommendations could be placed before a special session of the General Assembly, at which heads of State or Government would be present. I suggest that the time frame for this need not be any longer than at the inception of the United Nations, 58 years ago. In conclusion, let us remind ourselves that 11 September was a tragic wake-up call for all of us. The 19th of August was a tragic wake-up call for the United Nations. We have before us a historic opportunity to build a United Nations worthy of the people whom we have the honour to represent a United Nations where honesty is not clouded by diplomacy, where realism replaces rhetoric, and where action supplants treaties.  ﻿I should like to begin my statement with a quotation from the Koran: “O mankind! We created You from a single (pair) Of a male and a female, And made you into Nations and tribes, that Ye may know each other (Not that ye may despise (Each other). Verily The most honoured of you in the sight of Allah Is (he who is) the most Righteous of you.” (The Holy Koran, XLIX:13) Peace be upon you. I should like at the outset to congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. I should also like to express the gratitude of my delegation to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan. We would like to express our appreciation for the important role that the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, continues to play in revitalizing the work of the Organization. In this connection, we welcome his ideas regarding the institutional reform of the Organization. I would also like to take this opportunity to express to the United Nations our heartfelt condolences for the untimely deaths of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues. When I addressed the Assembly from this rostrum last year, I made clear that my Government and my country were eager to achieve peace in the Sudan. I am very pleased, therefore, to inform the 23 Assembly that our words have been matched with deeds, and peace is now on the horizon — peace that will put an end to an armed conflict that has squandered the human and natural resources of the country and hindered the development of the Sudanese people. My country has continuously reiterated its desire for dialogue and negotiation with the Sudan People’s Liberation Army Movement (SPLM). Our efforts, together with those of the mediators, have been continuing for more than 10 years and have recently been crowned with success in the form of an agreement by both parties as a result of an initiative put forward by the countries of the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development, under the patronage of the sisterly country, Kenya, and with much appreciated positive support by the IGAD partners. At the most recent round of negotiations, His Excellency Mr. Ali Osman Mohamed Taha, First Vice- President, led the Government delegation, and Mr. John Garang led the SPLM delegation. Four days ago, it resulted in an agreement on security arrangements and the extension of a ceasefire. It is expected that that agreement will pave the way for a final round of negotiations that will lead to just and lasting peace throughout the Sudan as soon as possible. I would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the IGAD member countries for the role they played in the Sudan peace process, under the stewardship of the President of Kenya and his special envoy. Our thanks and appreciation also go to IGAD partners, namely the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Italy and Norway. We would like to express particular gratitude for the positive intervention of the Government of the United States of America at the most critical juncture in the negotiation process. We also appreciate the considerable efforts that Egypt and Libya have continued to make in the interests of peace in the Sudan, as well as those of the Arab League and the African Union. We are confident that Members will understand how important the ceasefire agreement is for the humanitarian situation. The report of the Secretary- General on the humanitarian situation in the Sudan demonstrates the extent of the progress made in this area. Next month will mark the one-year anniversary of the cessation of hostilities. Peace remains a basic requirement for the rehabilitation of the areas affected by war and will allow for the transition from humanitarian relief to comprehensive sustainable development. We would like to reiterate our full conviction that the peace, security and stability of the countries of the region are directly linked with peace in the Sudan. That is why my country has endeavoured to heal the wounds of the past in its relations with neighbouring countries, in particular Egypt and Ethiopia. Our relationship with those two countries has moved beyond the reconciliation stage; we now have exemplary strategic security ties with them, thereby protecting the interests of our peoples and consolidating peace and security in the entire region. We would like to express gratitude to our friends and brothers and to the United Nations in general for their humanitarian assistance during the conflict. We call upon the international community to help in the post-conflict reconstruction of our country and the rehabilitation of internally displaced persons and refugees, and to assist in the achievement of sustainable development in support of the fledgling peace. It gives me great pleasure to tell the Assembly that we have made appreciable constitutional achievements that will open the door wide for participation by all the Sudanese people in all areas of political life. Economic plans and policies adopted by the Government have started to bear fruit, whether in the form of reduced levels of inflation, high rates of growth or the stabilization of exchange rates. We will continue to enhance those policies with a view to reducing poverty and achieving sustainable development within the framework of the 25-year comprehensive development strategy for the period 2003-2027. In his report on the work of the Organization, the Secretary-General reminded us that, as the challenges facing us change, so must we alter our methods of dealing with them. It is high time, therefore, that we summon the political will to reform the Security Council by dealing with the double issues of membership and the right of veto so as to make it more representative and democratic in its membership and in its decision-making. While touching on Security Council reform, we warmly welcome Council 24 resolution 1506 (2003), which lifted the sanctions imposed against fraternal Libya. In that connection, we wish to stress the need to lift all unilateral sanctions, used as a means for the political and economic coercion of States. We urge the Security Council not to be quick to impose sanctions on countries, particularly the developing countries, because of their adverse impact on their people. The high-level participation at this session to discuss various international issues is clear evidence of the General Assembly’s importance. We strongly support its efforts to rearrange its priorities and agenda items, in order to improve the administrative and procedural aspects of its work, to enhance its relations with the Security Council, the highest organ in the United Nations, to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security and to face ongoing challenges. Another challenge of great concern to us lately is the increasing acts of terrorism. Terrorist acts that occurred in various parts of the world last year clearly prove that no country is immune to terrorism. All of us, regardless of our religion or beliefs, could be the victims of such crimes. As I mentioned earlier, terrorism has no religion or country. Hence, in order to face this grave threat, we need to reach an international consensus on its definition, root causes and means to combat it, under the auspices of our international Organization. In that context, we express our support for the call of His Excellency Mohamed Hosni Mubarak, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, to convene an international conference, under the auspices of the United Nations, to address the issue of terrorism. In the context of its international and regional role, the Sudan will have the honour next year to host the Non-Aligned Movement ministerial conference. We hope that the conference will consider issues of collective security and challenges. The deteriorating socio-economic situation of the least developed countries requires the international community to make every effort to extricate them from the labyrinth of poverty, hunger and disease. Our experience in the Sudan has proved that, regardless of their endeavours, the least developed countries cannot achieve the objectives of the Brussels Programme of Action without substantial assistance from their development partners. I commend the tireless efforts of the High Representative of the Secretary-General for the Least Developed Countries in mobilizing international support for initiatives on the subject. We join the appeal to the international community by His Excellency Joaquim Alberto Chissano, President of Mozambique, as Chairman of the African Union, to extend support and assistance to the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), the framework adopted by the African continent and endorsed by the United Nations and donor countries as a tool for coping with development challenges in the continent. I am pleased to inform members that the Sudan, as Chairman of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), has tried its best to formulate policies and take steps that will further consolidate and promote links of cooperation between EGAD and COMESA member States. Such efforts are in line with the NEPAD initiative aimed at achieving peace, development and prosperity for the peoples of the entire African continent. To that end, a number of specialized conferences have been convened in the Sudan to address issues of economic cooperation, disarmament and combating terrorism, as well as issues of internally displaced persons and refugees, all with the aim of attaining the NEPAD goals. Another agenda item subject that we think will negatively impact the future of humankind if not properly addressed is that of human cloning, which is now at the centre of a heated scientific, religious, legal and ethical debate. The Sudan strongly supports the call for an international convention against the reproductive cloning of human beings. We also condemn all medical ventures that disdain human dignity and the sanctity of the Creator. Statements over the past few days clearly demonstrate the keen interest of the international community in maintaining international peace and security. While adding our voice to those calling for the revitalization of multilateral diplomacy, we also call for the prompt handling of the critical security and humanitarian situation in Iraq. Furthermore, we call for the empowerment of our Iraqi brothers so that they may exercise their right to sovereignty, as guaranteed to them by international law, and live in peace and harmony with their neighbours. It gives me pleasure to remind the Assembly of the important resolution adopted a few weeks ago by the Council of Ministers of the League of Arab States, which recognized the 25 transitional Governing Council of Iraq. Such recognition is a significant step that will, hopefully, enable Iraq to regain its sovereignty and to play its regional and international role. The question of Palestine has been a deep concern to the human conscience. For more than five decades, it has been a major threat to international peace and security. We have been firmly convinced that Israel’s maintenance of a huge military presence, its aggression and its killing and suppression of the Palestinian people, will only aggravate a situation that is already deteriorating. The only viable way to achieve peace is to adhere to the relevant resolutions of international legitimacy and international law. The international community, particularly the influential parties in the peace process, are urged to exert pressure on Israel. The conflict in Somalia has been a bleeding wound in the Horn of Africa and the time has come to stop that painful bleeding. We call upon the leaders of all Somali factions to join hands to preserve the unity and stability of their country, and to achieve development and prosperity for their people, in order to protect them from the scourge of war and fighting. We remain confident that the neighbouring and other interested countries will spare no effort to help reach an agreement that will preserve the unity, security and stability of Somalia. The Sudan is now a genuine partner in the international efforts aimed at the prohibition of chemical weapons. One of the significant roles played by the Sudan in that regard was its hosting last August of the First Conference of the African National Authorities of the Chemical Weapons Convention States Parties. We are committed to implementing the recommendations adopted at the conference, particularly to creating a chemical-weapon-free zone in Africa and to enhancing international cooperation in the peaceful use of chemical materials. I call upon the international community to make renewed efforts to declare the Middle East a zone free of nuclear weapons and of all other weapons of mass destruction. That inflamed region must abide by international agreements banning nuclear weapons. The nuclear facilities of all States, without exception and with complete fairness, must be subjected to the comprehensive safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Here we recall, shortly after its fifth anniversary, the unjust bombing of the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical and veterinary factory by the former United States Administration which claimed that it was used to manufacture weapons. It was a baseless accusation, as Members are aware, that has been refuted by American scientific and academic institutions before relevant international organizations. The Sudan’s complaint is still alive in the Security Council. In that connection, I call upon the current United States Administration to rectify the serious mistake that it inherited from its predecessor, by compensating the Sudan morally and financially. I hope that before the end of this session my country will finally bid farewell to the longest African conflict, an achievement that would enable the Sudan to play its role at the regional level and to contribute to the stability and sustainable development of the African continent. In conclusion, I reaffirm our deep conviction that the United Nations is the sole, irreplaceable mechanism for administering and promoting international cooperation in all fields. Therefore, we should distance the United Nations from serving narrow interests and from attempts to exploit it to pursue special agendas. In that connection, we express our readiness and our commitment to assist the United Nations system in achieving the lofty goals enshrined in the Charter.  ﻿Mr. President, my Government and country warmly congratulate you on your assumption of the Presidency of this fifty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. In presiding over the Assembly, Saint Lucia is setting an historic precedent for small island developing States, with the able support of its Caribbean Community (CARICOM) neighbours. Fiji fully supports your chairmanship. We also recognize the successful leadership of your 17 predecessor, President Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic. I wish to express my Government’s deep condolences to the family of Mr. Vieira de Mello and of all the victims of the bombing at the United Nations in Baghdad last month. This was a brutal crime, which robbed the world of one of its most accomplished mediators and peacemakers. We hope that at this session, we can all come together, united, in our collective determination to rid the world of terrorism. I come from a part of the globe that is isolated in the vast South Pacific. But that remoteness does not separate us from the international perils of the bomb, the gun and the hijacker. It does not insulate us against those bent on causing death and destruction to defend their interests or advance a cause. The fact is that every country and region is a potential target. Members of the Pacific Islands Forum are joined with the United Nations in the search for a new order of peace and stability. That might seem an impossible task set against the tensions, the hatreds, the bloodshed and violence of the times. But, if we abandon it, we sell out the principles of the United Nations. We betray our countries, our peoples and generations to come. Are we so inadequate and lacking in our understanding and abilities that we are incapable of coming up with new solutions to stop the spread of terror? It is not enough to simply strike out at the perpetrators. We must spend more effort and resources finding out what turns people towards violence to achieve a goal. We must tell ourselves that there is a different way, that the growing culture of violence and killing is not destined to be a permanent part of our world. The United Nations needs to go to the root causes of this terrible phenomenon, which casts a very dark and menacing shadow over the first years of the twenty-first century. In the Pacific, we are concentrating on security issues, strengthening law and order and maintaining stability. A number of initiatives were taken during the last 12 months when our Prime Minister served as Forum chair. Foremost among these initiatives was the ground- breaking decision to send a peace mission to the Solomon Islands in response to a plea for assistance from that country. The Solomon Islands had been wracked for several years by civil unrest, lawlessness and ethnic conflict. We in Fiji had a sympathetic appreciation of the difficulties facing those islands because of our own crisis in 2000. We were more than happy, therefore, to contribute to a task force to the Solomon Islands charged with bringing back order and re-establishing peace. A contingent of our troops, combined with others from Australia, Papua New Guinea, Tonga and New Zealand, is now in the Solomon Islands working with the people there. We are encouraged by what our own soldiers and their comrades have been able to do so far to support a neighbour in distress. Our task is given extra significance through the close ties we enjoy with the Solomon Islands. The Solomon Islands mission has inevitably generated some controversy and debate about Australia’s expanding involvement in our region. But let the record reflect that we endorse Australia’s leading role in this intervention on the invitation of the Solomon Islands Government. One of its notable aspects is that it is multilateral. It was accomplished through the Pacific Islands Forum and has the unanimous support of the members. Beyond this, we know that the support and encouragement of the international community and the United Nations system will remain important, as work to build a credible law and justice system, an effective administration and a viable economic base continues. Recent happenings have brought into question the value, the relevance and the future of multilateralism. Our position is that we understood the concerns, which led the United States to act in the way it did over Iraq. The date of 11 September 2001 was a shattering ordeal. It changed history and it changed America. That said, Fiji declares an unwavering commitment to the concept of the world community working together, seeking the common path forward. We stand by the ideals of a multilateral, cooperative approach among nations. We welcome the decision by the United States to now seek United Nations involvement in Iraq’s reconstruction. In the Pacific, the Nasonini Declaration on regional security, adopted last year in Fiji, is a keystone of joint strategy. It followed the earlier Honiara Declaration on Law Enforcement Cooperation, aimed at countering transnational and organized crime. The Forum countries will give higher priority to implementing legislative provisions to improve our 18 capacity for dealing with law enforcement and security challenges. Underpinning this is an Australian commitment, also approved by the Forum, to spend approximately $15 million over three years, to strengthen regional police forces. New Zealand has, additionally, agreed to put in $2 million. This important project is to be based in Fiji. A regional academy will provide training for about 900 police officers annually from Forum countries. Fiji has been taking part in United Nations peacekeeping operations since 1978. This has come at a price. But, to us, serving world peace with our soldiers demonstrates that even the smallest States can play their part in minimizing and preventing conflicts. Currently, 635 Fiji personnel are on active duty in United Nations missions, apart from 123 soldiers and 15 police in the Solomon Islands. Our commitment to United Nations peacekeeping has not changed. It is a vital part of our foreign policy. Fiji stresses the importance of strengthening multilateral treaties and conventions on disarmament and non-proliferation. Our country is one of those that want to see an effective global strategy for the control of small arms and light weapons. During our Prime Minister’s chairmanship of the Pacific Islands Forum, there was a deepening of the South Pacific region’s engagement with development partners and international organizations. Heads of Government from member States enhanced their ties with France and Japan. They met in Tahiti with President Chirac and discussed many topics of common concern. At a summit with Prime Minister Koizumi in Okinawa, they were able to reach and agreement on the outcome of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, the Millennium Development Goals and our own regional priorities, as a further basis for future collaboration. The Pacific Islands Forum now has 12 dialogue partners, including the United States, Canada, France, the United Kingdom, the European Union, Japan, China, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, India and Taiwan. China — the emerging giant in world affairs and trade — has a steadily growing presence in our region. Its involvement and support for our economic and social development is welcome. We see definite scope for trade, investment, cultural and tourism links. China, many commentators believe, already has the world’s second largest economy. Its present aid programme is significant and we expect it to grow substantially as bilateral relationships grow stronger. At the same time, we place great value on our trade and commerce with Taiwan and value its assistance to our development. We look forward to the day when China and Taiwan peacefully resolve their long-standing differences. We also welcome Japan’s role and presence in the Pacific Islands region. Japan is an economic powerhouse and its increased role and contribution in promoting international security and development should be recognized by all Member States in allowing Japan a special place in the United Nations Security Council. I am pleased to report that in Fiji and the region, there is more coordination in the effort to curb HIV/AIDS, the most terrible disease of our era. Although we have so far escaped the worst effects of HIV/AIDS, it is a real danger in the islands. We expect to make substantial progress in our fight against this affliction, with support from Japan and France and an allocation from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. A programme financed by Australia provides $12.5 million for the regional campaign. Our Government will also make a larger HIV/AIDS allocation in next year’s budget. HIV/AIDS screening was recently at the centre of discussion in Fiji, when a suggestion was made for obligatory testing. Such a move was regarded by our Human Rights Commission as a rights violation. We must weigh the Commission’s views carefully against the competing call for radical response to a national threat. The Fiji Human Rights Commission is a product of our Constitution and its comprehensive bill of rights. The Commission is implementing a public education campaign to overcome a lack of awareness on rights issues. It also monitors Government and statutory authorities so that laws and policies conform to international human rights principles and the requirements of the Constitution. These generally reflect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by this Assembly in 1948. 19 As a former colony, Fiji is a late-starter in promoting human rights and civil liberties. Our Government’s strategic plan to 2005 expresses very clearly where we stand. The plan was endorsed by a national economic summit and by Parliament. Please allow me to quote briefly from the plan: “The guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms for every citizen of Fiji and their equal protection under the law ... is an essential part of our vision for a peaceful Fiji. A feeling of personal security and of group security comes about when people have confidence that breaches of rights and freedoms will be dealt with impartially and speedily”. I quote further: “... Respect for the rights of others is a critical component of our freedoms guaranteed under the constitution. It is essential for peaceful existence in our multi-cultural society”. I emphasize these points because sometimes there are attempts to depict Fiji as a land where rights are habitually abused. Propaganda against our country has been circulated in some quarters here at the United Nations. Much of this stems from opposition to our affirmative action policies designed to end social and economic inequalities. These are based on principles well-established internationally and are provided for in our Constitution. It is self-evident that a country cannot grow in justice, harmony and prosperity when more than half of its population — in this case the indigenous Fijians — are largely outside the economy looking in. All right-thinking people will agree that it is just and fair that this should be changed. But we constantly stress that this is not about taking from one group to give to another. It is about making the economy grow so that there is enough wealth to be shared equitably among our population. We want to give the Fijians a chance to catch up and compete in business and commerce. Let it be noted that we have brought in laws to help the disadvantaged of all communities. This is a constitutional obligation. No one is being left out. That is the commitment we have made to our own population, and we now make to the international community. Disparities and inequalities go to the very heart of the dispute which brought about the collapse of the Cancún talks. The failure of the talks underscores the deep differences which separate the poor countries from the rich in the battle to reform international trade. We acknowledge the ideal of free trade, but the stark reality is that there are many dangerous pitfalls for nations whose economies are weak and vulnerable. It will be a long time before most developing States are ready to compete on that so-called level playing field. To them it is not level at all. Bring the barriers down completely and the full might of first- world commercial power will descend. What will that do to home-grown and emerging industries in poorer countries? For the time being, countries like ours need preferences and special access for our economic survival. Think of it as a form of affirmative action to reduce that yawning chasm between the rich North and the poverty-stricken South. We now need to urgently consider where the World Trade Organization goes from here, and what can be done to salvage the wreckage of Cancún. About three and-a-half years ago, my country came very close to anarchy. We had an armed insurrection, hostage-taking and violence. The Government of the day was overthrown. It was a time of extreme crisis for Fiji. Now, I can stand before this Assembly to tell you that our nation is being reborn. Order and stability were restored and the first steps taken on a continuing journey of reconciliation. We had peaceful, democratic elections. Our Government is on a mission to build a Fiji where peace, multi-racial harmony and prosperity will always reign. Our economic policy is to create more employment and wealth through high growth. We have increased Government investment in infrastructure and made a concerted and, to this point, successful effort to attract greater volumes of private capital. Many of the indicators are positive — apart from those relating to our sugar industry. This year, we expect to achieve an overall growth rate of more than five per cent. This remarkable recovery could not have been achieved without the encouragement and support of 20 many friends of Fiji in the international community, and especially here at the United Nations. I pay tribute to the role of the United Nations Development Programme, the World Health Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the International Labour Organization. The ILO is making a particularly valuable contribution at the moment with a plan to accelerate job creation. To conclude, the “special case” of the small island developing States is calling for a “special response” of the global community, in further advancing our sustainable development efforts. The ten-year comprehensive review of the Barbados Programme of Action in Mauritius next year will provide the avenue for our development partners to make further commitments to our cause. Fiji is urging the international community to contribute to the success of this meeting. Mr. President and fellow delegates, the United Nations is currently experiencing considerable strain and division, but it is for all of us to ensure that this Organization comes through the period of difficulty, strengthened and regenerated. The world needs the United Nations and what it stands for. ﻿It is with a deep sense of pride and pleasure that my delegation congratulates you, Sir, on your unanimous election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. You have done the entire Caribbean region proud. Your own country, Saint Lucia, one of the smallest States Members of this Organization, can feel especially proud. We are confident that, given the combination of your vast experience, solid leadership skills and charismatic personality, this session will go down in history as one of the most dynamic and constructive for all States, large and small. My delegation pays tribute to your illustrious predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, for his enlightened and innovative conduct of this body during the previous session. My delegation also expresses profound sympathy to the Government and the people of Saint Lucia on the recent passing of your predecessor, Sir, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, The Honourable George Odlum. Each succeeding President of the General Assembly inherits an agenda of recurring resolutions and outcome documents adopted at the many international summit-level conferences during the past 4 decade. My delegation remains confident that your administration, Sir, will put implementation concerns high on the development agenda. When the United Nations was founded 58 years ago, the focus was basically on world peace and security in the aftermath of the devastating effects of the Second World War. Security concerns have once again taken centre stage in current international affairs, but they should not displace the consideration of important issues on the economic and social agenda. My Government remains totally committed to the global fight against terrorism and the perpetrators of violence. In this regard, it will certainly take all necessary actions to ensure that Grenada is an active partner in this common struggle. The proliferation of transnational criminal activities is the most vivid example of the negative effect of open borders in a globalized world. The illicit trade in weapons and drugs, money-laundering and trafficking in women and children clearly need to be tackled in a more organized manner. A truly effective global response to these and other threats requires that all States act in concert with each other. In this regard, my Government, despite its limited resources, is fulfilling its commitment. Since the events of 11 September 2001, Grenada has ratified or acceded to all relevant international treaties and conventions on terrorism and related activities. All the appropriate domestic legislation has been enacted. My delegation is convinced that the elimination of terrorism alone will not guarantee social and economic stability. It will not solve the many problems associated with underdevelopment, poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy, and unemployment — all of which give rise to hopelessness and pose a threat to peace and security. The holding of the recent meeting here at the United Nations to assess the implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS made clear that the pandemic is continuing to take a heavy toll, especially in sub-Saharan Africa and the Caribbean. As the many leaders who took part in the debate said, much remains to be done in the fight against this dreadful scourge if the Declaration of Commitment target is to be met by 2005. Thus, certain critical areas in this fight, such as education on prevention and care targeted especially to young people, mobilization of resources by engaging civil society including the business sector, and access to affordable medicine are absolutely essential. Fighting HIV/AIDS is both a medical and a socio- economic problem, with far-reaching implications for small developing countries such as my own. Caring for the ever-increasing numbers with the virus, together with educating and sensitizing the general public on prevention issues and responsible behaviour, has become burdensome, in terms of both human and financial resources. Partnership and support from the developed countries will be welcomed. My delegation is convinced that the eradication of poverty and its related ills is central to social and economic stability. Poverty will not simply disappear through passionate pleas and eloquent statements, but through genuine collaborative and cooperative efforts. My Government is acutely aware of our responsibility, as a sovereign and independent nation to provide for our citizens. The efforts of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) to establish a single market and economy with a view to harnessing and efficiently utilizing the limited resources of the region, improving competitiveness, productivity and general cooperation, must be applauded. The more developed countries must speedily come to the rescue of the needy developing countries by providing tangible and meaningful technical, economic and other forms of assistance — assistance that will have a positive impact on the lives of millions in the developing world. It is for this reason that we will continue to clamour for reforms within the global trading system, and especially within the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO), particularly as it relates to trade in agriculture and in other services. My delegation calls for a substantial reduction of the subsidies afforded to farmers in the more developed and industrialized economies, and also for the removal of non-tariff and other technical barriers to the export of our commodities. In our efforts to diversify our economies and to enhance our revenue-earning options, we need the flexibility to develop our service sector free from pressures and conditionalities, to add value to our 5 primary products, and to be able to export our exotic fruits and vegetables. Our small and vulnerable economies can become viable if the right conditions are created to facilitate the trade of our products on the world market. The failure of the recently concluded WTO Ministerial Meeting in Cancún, Mexico, to reach a compromise on issues of extreme importance is a cause for concern. The outcome has confirmed, in unequivocal terms, that the divide between rich and poor nations continues to widen. My country endorses the idea that the United Nations must continue its work to ensure that democracy and respect for basic human rights prevail in all civil societies. However, this body should, as a matter of principle, also seek to ensure that fair, just and morally correct actions and decisions are taken on equally important matters. The people of the Republic of Cuba continue to live under a unilaterally imposed financial, commercial and economic blockade, as they have for more than 40 years. This has resulted in great human and material losses, and in many personal traumatic experiences. Grenada joins the overwhelming majority in the United Nations and calls for the unconditional lifting of those sanctions. We believe that universally accepted norms and values and economic growth and prosperity can flourish only under normal circumstances. The people of Cuba need that chance. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict continues to escalate, and every effort must be made to return to the road map, as it remains the best hope for the resolution of the problem. Similarly, my delegation is concerned about the negative effect of civil unrest and tensions around the globe, particularly in Iraq, Liberia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. My Government supports all efforts, actions and initiatives to ensure that normalcy returns to the countries and regions concerned. We urge patience, understanding and tolerance in dealing with these difficult situations. The United Nations has been seized with the reform of the Security Council and with the revitalization of the General Assembly for a number of years. When the United Nations was founded 58 years ago, the membership was 51; today there are 191 Member States. Much has changed in the geopolitical dynamics of the world, which the United Nations represents and reflects. Therefore, there is a need for structural and functional changes in the Security Council and the General Assembly, two of the main organs of greatest importance in the world body. At the beginning of this intervention, I alluded to the tardiness in the implementation of collective decisions, particularly on the subject of the sustainable development of small island developing States. A total of six summit conferences have been held over a period of 11 years to address the issues of the environment and development in those vulnerable island States. Donor countries have not fulfilled their end of that partnership. Official development assistance continues to fall, and multilateral aid has dropped significantly. Ten years later, another high-level meeting is scheduled to take place in Mauritius in 2004 to review the Barbados Declaration and Programme of Action. My delegation is hopeful that the occasion will be used to ensure that the priority issues facing small States will be addressed in a way that gives optimism to the millions whose lives depend on a commitment to the following issues: improving their preparedness for, and recovery from, natural and environmental disasters; addressing the problem of climate change and sea-level rise, which could submerge low-lying nations in the Caribbean and the Pacific; preventing worsening shortages of potable water; developing solar and renewable energy to lessen dependence on expensive imported oil; and managing growth in tourism to protect the environmental and cultural integrity of our nations. My delegation’s appeal to this session of the General Assembly is for all stakeholders, including the multilateral financial institutions, demonstrate their total commitment to the entire process in order that efforts to implement outstanding important commitments can be finalized. Despite the uncertainty over adequate funding for implementation, my delegation remains confident, Mr. President, that, with your ability to lead and build consensus, this fifty-eighth session will become known as the General Assembly of implementation. 6 As Secretary-General Kofi Annan recently stated: “We all live on the same planet, buffeted by the same winds, influenced by the same currents of change. But instead of acting on what unites us … we allow a chasm to persist between us … We need to mend this great divide with a new fabric of solidarity”. My delegation is convinced that we have the opportunity to build and develop this new kind of solidarity and partnership between rich and poor, big and small, powerful and weak, at this session of the General Assembly. The opportunity is ours to embrace or to lose. ﻿Allow me to extend to you, Sir, our sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. You may rest assured of my delegation’s full support in the discharge of your important responsibilities. It is my painful duty to pay, along with so many of us, a tribute to the memory of Sergio Vieira de Mello and his associates, who sacrificed their lives for the people of Iraq in the service of peace and the United Nations. Our heart goes out to the families of the victims of that cowardly terrorist act. The world was shocked and saddened when a most respected colleague, and a close friend of mine, the late Anna Lindh, the Swedish Foreign Minister, fell victim to a senseless act of crime in Stockholm. Her vision of the world and her deep commitment to the principles and purposes of the United Nations will continue to be a source of inspiration to all of us. 4 Hungary aligned itself with the statement delivered by the presidency of the European Union during the general debate and fully supports it. We live in a world of great opportunities and serious challenges. It is in this context that global problems require global and concerted solutions. To that effect, we must use the potentials of the United Nations to make the best use of opportunities at hand. In that respect, maintaining or restoring peace and stability, non-proliferation, development and human rights are in the focus of attention of the international community. International terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, grave armed internal conflicts, poverty and illegal migration constitute enormous challenges to all of us. Hungary remains strongly committed to multilateral institutions. We are firmly convinced that the United Nations can and should play a major role in meeting the multifaceted and ever growing challenges of our contemporary world. We, for our part, are deeply devoted to assisting that role. Along with our partners in the European Union, we are more than prepared to strengthen the United Nations as a unique instrument of a strong multilateral system to tackle global and regional issues for the sake of a safer and more secure world. We will spare no effort to take an active part in maintaining peace and security, enhancing the non- proliferation regimes, protecting and promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms, and establishing international standards. The global fight against international terrorism must remain a major priority of the United Nations. In this context, we support the full and effective implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions. Hungary is keenly interested in widening the scope of multilateral instruments in the fight against terrorism. After the success of the coalition forces in bringing freedom and the opportunities of democracy in Iraq, we have to turn our attention to the reconstruction and development of that long-suffering country. Hungary is strongly committed to supporting the Iraqi people. Our fellow Hungarians are serving with the coalition forces. We will also attend the donors conference in Madrid later this fall. We are closely following developments regarding the United Nations assumption of an ever-increasing role in Iraq. I would like to stress that the United Nations has to assume its share of the work both in restoring the sovereignty of Iraq and in the reconstruction process. I believe that our Organization, with ample experience elsewhere, can play a significant role in the establishment of democratic institutions, the rule of law, respect for human rights and election-monitoring. We are studying intensively our possible contributions to this process. For the time being, though, our priority must be the stabilization of the security situation in Iraq and the normalization of day-to-day life. Hungary is deeply concerned by the grave and deteriorating situation in the Middle East. We believe that the implementation of the road map is the only framework for reaching a political settlement. An effective and credible monitoring mechanism is of critical importance to that effect. The Quartet should carry on with its mission in the peace process. We call upon both the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority to dedicate all their efforts to the full and unconditional implementation of the road map. The security situation in Afghanistan remains fragile. The Government of Afghanistan deserves our assistance and attention. Terrorist acts and illicit drug- trafficking are causes for serious concern. I am confident that, with the unwavering support of the international community, Afghanistan will soon be a better place for the Afghan people. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, together with the means of their delivery, is a growing and serious threat to international peace and security. The danger of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons in the hands of terrorist groups and States — which are a menace to our world — represents new major security challenges, against which we must act together in a resolute manner, both regionally and globally. Earlier this year, the European Union (EU) adopted a very important and far-reaching Declaration on Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction. Hungary will work hard with its partners in the EU towards the effective implementation of that new instrument and of the recently agreed EU Action Plan. In the current world security environment, the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) needs to be reinforced. We call on the States remaining outside the NPT to accede to it 5 unconditionally and to accept the nearly universal norms of nuclear non-proliferation. Revelations about large-scale nuclear programmes and the failure to provide sufficient explanations as to their purpose and nature have given rise to legitimate concerns on the part of the international community. There is a growing recognition — shared by Hungary — that those programmes imply serious proliferation risks as well. We view the first follow-up meeting of the States parties to the Biological Weapons Convention (BWC), held at Geneva in August this year, as encouraging. The participants rightly focused on practical actions. We look forward to seeing further progress in strengthening national implementation of the BWC at the next meeting, in November. Hungary remains strongly committed to the international protection and promotion of human rights and of fundamental freedoms, including the rights of minorities. The United Nations is the only universal Organization dealing with worldwide standards-setting, protecting human rights and addressing violations of human rights in individual Member States. All those efforts deserve our unqualified support. Hungary continues to attach particular importance to the protection of the rights of minorities. Regional instruments aimed at improving the situation of national and ethnic minorities have already been adopted to that end without major difficulties. A universal instrument on the rights of minorities has yet to be elaborated. We believe that, given the necessary political will on the part of Member States, the United Nations will be able to fill that gap through an international minority protection system. The more effectively we act, the more beneficial the service that we will be able to provide with respect to protecting vulnerable minority groups through standards and norms. Hungary stands ready and is willing to join others in redoubling our efforts with regard to strengthening the United Nations system. Multilateral institutions are in serious need of reform, if they are to live up to the expectations of the fast-changing political and economic landscape of our times. The United Nations cannot be an exception to that.  ﻿Mr. President, my delegation congratulates you on your assumption of this high office. We are confident that, given your vast experience and consummate diplomatic skill, you will be able to successfully manage the proceedings of this session of the General Assembly. I also wish to express our appreciation for the excellent and effective manner in which your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, conducted the work of the fifty-seventh session. In the same vein, I would like to commend the Secretary-General for his efforts to strengthen the role of the United Nations in resolving the world’s burning issues. Allow me also to pay tribute to the international workers who have recently given their lives in service to the United Nations in Iraq. In particular, we reiterate our condolences to the Secretary-General and the Organization for the tragic death of Sergio Vieira de Mello, that outstanding servant of the United Nations. As we condemn terrorism and violence in all their forms and manifestations, we honour the memory of Anna Lindh, the slain Foreign Minister of Sweden, who dedicated her life to the pursuit of peace, development and social progress. We appear here before this Assembly every year to renew our vow to the United Nations as the main guarantor of international peace and security. The speeches that we deliver here are a distilled expression of our collective passion for and conviction about the ideals that the United Nations stands for. Yet, at times, as was the case with the war on Iraq, the United Nations gets sidelined and the unique legitimacy of its authority undermined through unilateral actions. Such actions produced a general feeling of fear and uncertainty, especially among the small and weak nations of the world. This is why the central theme that runs through nearly all the speeches at this session is the call for a return to multilateral dialogue, persuasion and collective action as the only appropriate approach to resolving the many conflicts facing the international community. Being a small country, Namibia echoes this call. Multilateralism must be the basis of global security, if smaller countries are not to feel that they are at the mercy of stronger ones. But, as recent events have demonstrated, big Powers, like the smaller ones, also need a multilateral framework as a more reassuring environment for the execution of foreign policy. We cannot fail to re-emphasize the inseparable link between international security and economic development. Therefore, the Organization must uphold the commitments made in the field of economic development, especially the important pledges made at the Millennium Summit and contained in the Millennium Declaration. In that Declaration, world leaders committed themselves to help lift half of the world’s poor out of misery and deprivation by the year 2015. We are talking here of 1.5 billion people around the world who 10 are today victims of abject poverty and 800 million who are starving. Still more, we are talking about the 900 million adults worldwide who are illiterate. The tragedy is that this human misery is acquiring deepening and broadening dimensions at a time when human ingenuity is ever enlarging the horizons of possibilities of doing away with this terrible scourge of extreme poverty and deprivation. Clearly, therefore, the implementation of the Millennium Declaration is a race against time. Failure to act now, and to do so with a sense of urgency, will mean that we, especially the rich of this world, have failed to rise to the moral and political challenge, which is to protect that most sacred of all human rights, the right to life. Namibia is fully committed to the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. To this end, we allocate 23 per cent of our annual national budget to education and 15 per cent to health. In this commitment to invest in our people, we have proceeded from the premise that a fundamental way to address the problem of poverty is to improve the productive competitiveness of our economy, and that improving that competitiveness is dependant on the rapid increase in the knowledge, skills and capacities of the people, with a view to empowering them to be able to escape from the trap of poverty. Skills in the field of information technology are a critical element of our human resources development programme. The other urgent challenge, spelled out in the Millennium Declaration, is the fight against the AIDS pandemic. Namibia is devoting considerable resources and attention to this seemingly daunting battle to contain the spread and limit the impact of this epidemic on our society. In this effort, we are working with other countries, relevant United Nations agencies, the private sector and members of civil society. In the context of this battle, the plight of AIDS orphans is given priority. However, there is a need for more generous contributions to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. In the pursuit of Millennium Development Goals, Namibia is, furthermore, working closely with its partners in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) to implement a number of key regional projects. One of these is a major power project, involving the power utilities of Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Africa and Namibia. Similarly, Namibia, together with Angola, Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe, has embarked on one of the world’s largest regional wildlife conservation and tourism development projects. The geographical scope of this area cuts across the territories of all five countries and covers approximately 278,000 square kilometres. We would like, therefore, to reassure the Secretary-General that Namibia has, indeed, started in earnest on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration and is staying the course. However, as I said earlier, there is still a great need for additional resources so that we can intensify our efforts aimed at development and poverty eradication. For more than a decade now, the overwhelming majority of Member States, including Namibia, have been calling for the reform of the institutions of the Organization, especially the Security Council. At the time of the founding of the United Nations in 1945, the Organization consisted of only 51 Member States. That number has now grown to 191 sovereign States. But the structure of the United Nations has remained in some respects unchanged. The Security Council needs to become democratic and more representative — allowing other regions and States to be represented. There is a broad consensus that by making it a democratic body, and more representative, we would give the Security Council greater legitimacy and that that, in turn, would mean more effective United Nations machinery. This call for reform is in line with the principle of democratic governance so often demanded of the developing countries by, among others, some of the Powers that occupy permanent seats in the Security Council. We welcome the fact that the Secretary-General has taken on board the reform of the United Nations, and that it is one of the higher priorities on his agenda. We have noted with great interest his plan to set up a panel of eminent personalities to look into the reform process and recommend ways of effecting such a reform. One of the issues that underlines the need for the urgent reform of the Security Council is the pathetic inability of that organ to bring the authority of the United Nations to bear on the situation in the Middle East. The unrelenting carnage that is taking place in that region has not compelled the Powers that be to accept the fact that that situation constitutes a threat to international peace and security. Because of a lack of political will in the Security Council, there has been no ability to act collectively to put a stop to the carnage. The continued occupation of the Palestinian territory exacerbates frustration and despair among the Palestinians. It follows, therefore, that the end of the occupation and the establishment of a Palestinian State, existing side by side with Israel, is key to peace and stability in that region. The implementation of the Security Council’s plan for Western Sahara would have closed the chapter on decolonization in Africa. The right of the people of Western Sahara to self-determination and independence is a Charter obligation that we cannot shirk. We hail the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States in Liberia and welcome the establishment of the United Nations Mission in that country. Guided by our commitment to African solidarity and given the resolve of the African Union to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, Namibia has decided to contribute troops to the United Nations Mission in Liberia. Geographic proximity is not a matter of choice. We abhor the continued imposition of the United States embargo against the people of Cuba, and call on the international community to demand the immediate lifting of that embargo. In conclusion, I would like to stress the vital importance of international cooperation by all stakeholders in our effort to realize the Millennium Development Goals. In order to reduce the scourge of poverty and underdevelopment, developing countries need access to the markets of developed countries. There is, therefore, an urgent need to overcome the impasse which has developed as result of the failure of the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference at Cancún. We need to emphasize that urgent need. We call on the developed countries to demonstrate a spirit of compromise in line with their undertakings at the Millennium Summit. Furthermore the implementation of the decisions taken at the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development must not be allowed to become a dead letter. The promise made by world leaders at the Millennium Summit to give globalization a human face should also be given practical expression. In short, the vision of a bright and prosperity- enhancing new Millennium must not be allowed to become a mirage or a dream that could not be realized. ﻿I am pleased to take this opportunity to address the General Assembly. In the past year both Kenya and the United Nations have been struck by terrorism. On behalf of my delegation, I wish to convey to the Secretary-General, through you, Mr. President, our profound condolences following the heartless and senseless attack on United Nations premises in Baghdad last August. Several United Nations personnel, including Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative in Iraq, lost their lives during this attack. Mr. Vieira de Mello — an elegant, highly intelligent man — was a calm voice of reason in a sea of troubles. As an assembly of nations, we may have lost his voice, but we should not lose sight of his vision and hopes. Terrorism has become a disturbing trend. We who live in Kenya know this all too well, as we do not have the option of ignoring the threat of terror. The people of Kenya have been targeted by terrorists on two recent, separate occasions — in 1998 and in 2002. After the 2002 attacks in Mombasa, Kenya’s economy was almost brought to its knees because of the various unhelpful measures from without that discouraged travel to our country. As a result, we have been doubly victimized. Against this backdrop, Kenya is totally committed to the fight against terrorism, as we have been subjected to the loss of innocent lives, untold human suffering, loss of property and social and economic hardship. We empathize with others, including the residents of this city and, indeed, the American people, who bore the brunt of unprecedented terror in the September 2001 attack. We are convinced that this fight can be won only by collective action by the community of nations. We should all address terrorism under the rubric of the United Nations and develop measured, long-term strategies to eliminate terrorism once and for all. Self- interest and unilateral action do not provide a firm basis for a global alliance against terrorism. Only principled international solidarity will defeat terrorism. My delegation wishes to commend the Secretary- General for the efforts made in enhancing the utilization of the United Nations Office at Nairobi. I note with satisfaction that construction of additional administration and social facilities at the United 10 Nations Complex at Gigiri has commenced. Further, following the elevation of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (UN-Habitat) to a fully fledged United Nations programme, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 56/206, it is the desire of the Government of Kenya to see maximum utilization of those facilities through the hosting of additional meetings and conferences in Nairobi. This will be a clear demonstration of our support for the relevant General Assembly resolutions on this issue. The proliferation of small arms and light weapons has contributed to the conflicts raging in many parts of Africa. Kenya has been actively involved in efforts to address this issue and hosts the Nairobi Secretariat on Small Arms and Light Weapons, a regional initiative involving 10 countries of the Great Lakes region and the Horn of Africa. In addition, at the Biennial Meeting of States on small arms and light weapons, held in New York in July 2003, Kenya presented a report on the activities of the Nairobi Secretariat as well as on the measures undertaken by the Government of Kenya at the national level to curb that menace. In this regard, we call upon the international community to provide the requisite resources in our joint effort to fight the proliferation of such arms. Wars and conflicts continue, and peace, stability and socio-economic development remain elusive, particularly in Africa. Kenya therefore continues to give priority to the prevention, management and peaceful resolution of conflicts. We have spearheaded the Inter-Government Authority on Development (IGAD) peace processes on the conflicts in southern Sudan and in Somalia. Negotiations on a peaceful solution are ongoing in both Naivasha and Nairobi, respectively. It is with profound satisfaction that we recall the historic event that occurred on 22 September of this year, when the warring parties in the Sudan signed a truly landmark agreement in Naivasha, Kenya. That agreement, which addresses transitional security arrangements, will no doubt provide the basis for a bright and prosperous future for the people of the Sudan. The parties will reconvene in the next two weeks to discuss power sharing, wealth sharing and the status of the three disputed regions of the Sudan. Indeed, the peace process in the Sudan has become irreversible. I therefore wish to pay tribute to the Government of the Sudan, the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM), the Sudanese People’s Liberation Army (SPLA), IGAD and the international Partners Forum for their concerted efforts and dedication to the peace process. This historic event is a concrete example of multilateralism at work. It is indeed a beacon of hope and a manifestation of the fact that, with goodwill and political will, peace is achievable. I am happy to say that not all news emanating from Africa is all about doom and gloom. However, in order to consolidate and guarantee a long-lasting peace, it is vital for the international community to play a greater role in the process. In this connection, I would like to urge the United Nations to play a leadership role in the post-conflict reconstruction of the Sudan and to request Member States to support that reconstruction. On the Somali peace process, I am happy to note that there is encouraging progress in the negotiations, and we are hopeful that there will be a fruitful outcome. Just two weeks ago, representatives adopted the charter, and elections will soon be held. Kenya therefore encourages the parties concerned to consolidate and take advantage of the gains made so far. We emphasize that the peace process should be all- inclusive, and we call upon the President of the Transitional National Government, Mr. Abdikassim, to return to the negotiating table in Nairobi and on the other faction leaders to accept his participation. By the same token, we call upon our partners and the international community to continue supporting both peace processes. We commend the efforts made by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to restore normalcy in Liberia. While appreciating the important role the United Nations plays in consolidating peace and stability in the world, Kenya advocates greater United Nations participation in African initiatives, such as the peace processes led by IGAD and ECOWAS. We are concerned at the continuing deterioration of the situation in the Middle East. Kenya notes with regret that a lasting solution to the question of Palestine remains elusive despite the various initiatives undertaken and efforts made to address the problem. We should not lose sight of the objective of establishing a viable Palestinian State, as envisaged in United Nations resolutions. Similarly, it should be recalled that, in order to ensure a durable solution to the conflict, it is important to take full account of the right of Israel to exist within safe and secure borders. We therefore reiterate our call to the parties to the conflict, as well as to the other players involved, to exercise restraint and to give priority to dialogue. Another area of concern in the Middle East is Iraq. The people of that country have yet to find peace and stability, without which any hope of national reconstruction will be in vain. It is, however, encouraging to observe that the international community now shares the common view that the United Nations should play a greater role in rebuilding that country. It is our hope that that consensus will be translated into action soon. For peace and stability to flourish, good governance is a necessity. This challenge is one that Kenya has been able to meet. In December 2002, Kenya saw a historic moment, when we held general elections which were universally recognized as free, fair and, indeed, democratic. Every citizen of Kenya was provided an opportunity to have a voice in determining his or her Government, successful and strong evidence that Africans can and will embrace democracy and that we, the proud descendants of the oldest civilizations in history, are ready to determine our destiny. I would like to recall the words of a great son of Africa, the late Patrice Lumumba: “History will one day have its say ... Africa will write its own history, and it will be to the north and to the south of the Sahara, a history of glory and dignity”. We are prepared as a country, under the leadership of President Mwai Kibaki, to play our part in promoting development and democracy. The New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) commands the support of all of us and, if implemented in a holistic manner, it will guarantee sustainable development for the African continent. NEPAD is a symbol of renewed commitment by the region’s States, and should thus be accorded the necessary support by the international community. We appreciate the warm reception accorded to NEPAD by both the United Nations and our development partners. We are committed to the successful implementation of this arrangement. For its part, Kenya, which is a member of the Steering Committee, has established a National NEPAD Secretariat and will host a regional summit on NEPAD for East Africa, the Great Lakes and the Horn of Africa next month to take stock of its implementation. The United Nations conferences and summits of the 1990s, particularly the Rio Summit, the Millennium Summit, the special session of the General Assembly on HIV/AIDS, the Monterrey Conference and, finally, the Johannesburg Summit, have equipped us with numerous ideas and commitments to tackle the problems facing the world today. Despite this wealth of ideas and commitments, we have continued to slip backwards in the fight against poverty, disease, illiteracy, environmental degradation and hunger. My message to all of us today is that we must recommit ourselves; let us implement what we have agreed on to make the world a better place for all. We welcome the adoption by the Assembly of resolution 57/270 B on the integrated and coordinated follow-up to the implementation of United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields. We urge all stakeholders identified in this resolution to play their part to ensure its full and speedy implementation. The majority of African countries are among the poorest in the world. The situation has been compounded by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which has ravaged the continent and reversed the socio-economic gains made since independence. To counter the ravages of the pandemic, the Kenya Government has put in place various measures to curb further spread of HIV/ AIDS. As a result of these efforts, prevalence rates have been significantly reduced in the last four years. However, much still needs to be done in this area. Last month, Kenya hosted the thirteenth International Conference on AIDS and Sexually- Transmitted Diseases. This forum brought together over 6,000 delegates from all over the world to discuss urgent measures that we all must take to combat the pandemic. We call upon the international community to intensify its efforts in fighting the scourge by, among others things, the provision of adequate financial resources, as well as enhanced access to antiretroviral drugs, for those infected. We welcome the recent agreement arrived at in the World Trade Organization (WTO) enabling developing countries to import HIV/AIDS generic drugs. We urge developed countries and drug manufacturers to respect the decision of the WTO and 12 to cooperate with developing countries to facilitate accessibility of antiretroviral drugs to all HIV/AIDS sufferers. Kenya regrets the collapse of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Cancún last month. However, we in the developing world are ready to continue with negotiations as long as our partners are prepared to work with us as equal players. In conclusion, I wish to extend to Assembly President Mr. Julian Hunte, on behalf of my delegation, congratulations on his unanimous election as President of the fifty-eighth regular session of the General Assembly. The challenges that I have addressed today have no respect for boundaries or sovereignty or, indeed, historical realities. They represent a collective problem for this Assembly and one that we must face together as an international organization. It is my hope that the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly will address with courage the issues before the international community. I wish to assure the Assembly President of the full support of the Kenyan delegation.  ﻿I should like at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. You have set in motion a cycle of African presidencies of the Assembly — today, the African diaspora, tomorrow the African motherland. Your election attests to the high esteem in which the Member States hold your country, Saint Lucia, a traditional partner of Cameroon in the great African, Caribbean and Pacific family. It is also testimony to the trust that the representatives of those States place in you and your eminent diplomatic qualities. You may rest assured that my delegation will cooperate fully with you, as we have the pleasure of being a member of your Bureau in our capacity as Chairman of the Third Committee. Allow me to extend my wishes of success to the other members of the Bureau. I also take this opportunity to commend your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for the skill with which he guided our work at the last session. To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, I wish to reiterate, in the context of the current international scene, Cameroon’s expression of great pride and trust in him and his role as a facilitator in the settlement of inter-African conflicts. I thank him for his energetic and tireless activity in the service of the great ideals of the Organization. Our Organization was created to preserve future generations from the scourge of war, to create conditions in which all can enjoy dignified lives, and to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The United Nations was created to ensure the reign of peace at the service of humankind. As Pope John XXIII recalled in his encyclical Pacem in Terris, which was addressed to all men of good will and the fortieth anniversary of which we celebrate this year, that peace rests on four indispensable conditions corresponding to four specific necessities of the human spirit: truth, justice, charity and liberty. Our heads of State trod the same path at the Millennium Summit. They undertook to free humankind from warfare and poverty, to promote human rights and to strengthen the United Nations. We felt that it would be useful to recall those principles because the picture of the world that has emerged in this general debate since 23 September is not a very optimistic one. On 19 August, the United Nations was struck by tragedy. The terrorist attack that destroyed the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad and struck and killed dozens of innocent victims, including Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, posed a great challenge to the principles and values that are the bedrock of our Organization. At the time, President Paul Biya expressed on behalf of Cameroon expressed his profound indignation and firmly condemned that odious, criminal act. Tomorrow, we will weep with the people of Iraq for the tragic death — again in Baghdad — of Akila Al-Hashemi, a highly talented diplomat and eminent member of the Iraqi Governing Council. Cameroon is proud that our Organization did not shirk its responsibilities or even weaken in its resolve to play a central role in the stabilization, orderly restoration of the sovereignty and reconstruction of Iraq and to support the political process under way. Following upon the long series of terrorist acts committed throughout the world since the tragedy of 11 September 2001, the 19 August attack in Baghdad was a timely reminder of the vulnerability of our world today. The complexity of the challenge and the gravity of the danger require us to step up our collective efforts effectively to confront terrorism, which today poses perhaps the most serious threat to international peace and security. Cameroon again calls for a high-level conference to be convened to define a collective organized response by the international community to terrorism. In addition to new threats to international peace and security, such as terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, there are other, equally dangerous, threats: all sorts of pandemics, including HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, and despair stemming from almost endemic poverty. Therefore, our joint mobilization should be aimed primarily at reducing or even eliminating the germs and causes of conflicts and despair. In the Middle East, we must demand that the parties to the conflict — Israel and Palestine — return without delay to the negotiating table to agree on modalities conducive to the rapid and comprehensive implementation of the road map. Cameroon regrets and condemns the escalation of violence, which is seriously 26 endangering any peaceful solution based on the letter and spirit of Security Council resolution 1397 (2002), adopted with no vote against. In it the Council affirmed “the vision of a region where two States, Israel and Palestine, live side by side within secure and recognized borders”. Our Palestinian and Israeli friends must get used to the idea that they are condemned to live side by side, to coexist in the geopolitical configuration forged by their rich, common history. To that end, Israelis and Palestinians will have to disarm — of course, in terms of weapon policies, but primarily disarm at the cultural level by unanimously and sincerely ridding their hearts of fear and the psychosis of war. The axiom that peace results from a balance of war-making ability and weapons should be replaced by the principle that real peace can be built only on mutual trust. The same applies to the peoples of the renowned Mesopotamia, who are emerging from three decades of tyranny, and must very soon, with the help of the international community, have their full dignity and sovereignty restored in a stable and prosperous Iraq, living in peace with all its neighbours. Over the past year, the many conflicts that have bloodied Africa have remained at the centre of the concerns of the United Nations, which has made many efforts to end them. Fortunately, those efforts are beginning to yield results. Some African conflicts are on the way to being resolved, nourishing new and legitimate hopes. Unfortunately, despite everything, there are still deplorable situations where the protagonists are having trouble finding a negotiated political solution or keeping their commitments. We are convinced that there will soon be results, given genuine political will on the part of the major actors. The irreplaceable support they receive from the United Nations deserves to be welcomed and recognized. Africa in general and our subregion in particular are fully aware of the role this important partner plays in our economic development, in consolidating democracy and the rule of law, and, finally, in promoting peace and security within and outside our countries. That is why the member States of the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS) have forcefully expressed their desire to strengthen their cooperation with the United Nations through a political presence of that Organization in the subregion, which would bolster our subregional capacities, particularly in the area of peace and security. In that connection, Cameroon reiterates its thanks to the Secretary-General for sending a multidisciplinary mission to Central Africa last June at the request of the members of the Security Council. We await with interest its innovative recommendations, which will shortly be made to the Security Council. They will nourish the debate to be held in this Hall on the agenda item entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and the Economic Community of Central African States”. We welcome the Secretary-General’s suggestions concerning the functioning of the Organization in this constantly changing world. We will fully support any reform that will bring the Organization closer to our peoples, as envisaged by the measures for strengthened cooperation between the United Nations and Central African organizations. In the Millennium Declaration, the political leaders of the world committed themselves to creating a world partnership for development and to respond to the special needs of Africa. The New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), whereby Africa has decided to take back the initiative and to control its own fate, can serve as a sound platform for a fruitful partnership between the continent and the international community. Africa is waiting for multiple responses. One, which will play a decisive part in the growth of our continent, is linked to trade. What African States want and aspire to is to play a more important part in the trade of goods and services. That implies in particular standards favouring fair competition. The failure of the recent World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference held at Cancún has raised grave doubts, particularly among African countries that export agricultural products. The tremendous reluctance of wealthy nations to dismantle their agricultural subsidy regimes is puzzling, and seriously threatens the survival of African economies based on agriculture and livestock. The subsidies given to that sector are stifling millions of farmers and cotton producers in Central and West Africa. In the same context, Mr. President, your country, Saint Lucia, and Cameroon have been carrying out an epic battle for almost a decade for the survival of our 27 banana industries, which are up against the giants of the sector. There are many more examples of the need for solidarity and urgent reform of the multilateral economic system. We hope that the Doha round will not deviate from its main objective — development — and that it will take well into consideration the concerns of the poorest in order to integrate them promptly into the global economy. Globalization does not relate only to trade. It also affects human development and new technologies, the protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of water and other natural resources. All of those aspects require a concerted approach, given that the sacrifices of some work to everyone’s advantage. Cameroon, which has chosen, for example, to participate in rational and sustainable management of the world forest ecosystem, has established a bold national environmental management plan. It is clear that, in order to effectively implement such policies without exposing its rural populations to extreme poverty, our country needs significant financial assistance, particularly to diversify its production and to ensure systematic transformation of its natural resources. In other words, today, more than ever before, solidarity should rhyme with partnership — and globalization with fair trade — to ensure the comprehensive and orderly development of our world. The United Nations assuredly remains the only universal Organization that not only possesses the necessary competencies and impartiality, but is also the only entity that can confer legitimacy on any multilateral action tackling the great world challenges, a number of which we have just listed. To attain these noble objectives, it urgently needs to consider in depth its current approaches, the way it operates and its implementing mechanisms. Cameroon unreservedly supports the Secretary- General’s initiative to establish a high-level panel of eminent personalities to consider ways to strengthen the United Nations. We hopefully await their contribution to the Organization’s necessary and unavoidable reform to improve its performance, including its missions of an economic and social nature as well as international peace and security. The Secretary-General invites us to go further along the path of reform, to which he has been committed for several years. He is right. What is at stake is the Organization’s very effectiveness, which it needs to tackle the great challenges of our time. He can count on Cameroon’s support. As I have been concluding my remarks, the light has changed from green to yellow and from yellow to red. How can one refrain from prolonging his comments when it is a question of humanity and humanity’s future through peace, a negotiated peace, a concerted peace, a peace that rests on justice and the equitable distribution of benefits and wealth?   ﻿First of all, I wish to extend my warmest congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that, under your wise leadership, the work of this great Assembly will further strengthen international cooperation and will thus contribute to the maintenance of peace, stability and security in this globalized world. The international environment today remains, no doubt, uncertain, as the world continues to confront constant change and turbulence. On the global stage, at least three key challenges continue to occupy the attention and remain a priority of the international community. The first challenge is the global situation. First, the current situation in Iraq is a serious predicament. While the war is over, the situation in the country remains critical. Peace, security and stability have not returned to Iraq. Although the number of international contingents deployed in Iraq has been increased, the overall environment in the country is very fragile and highly unstable. I think that United Nations should assume a greater and more responsible role in returning normalcy to the country during the transitional period. The road to normalcy means that Iraq should be allowed to govern itself as early as possible, which can be done in several ways, including the holding of free and fair elections. Cambodia strongly condemns the criminal attack against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on 19 August, and it wishes to pay a tribute to all the victims, especially to Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General. Let us pay our respect to the memory of that great servant of peace. We in Cambodia always remembers his noble actions in Cambodia in the early 1990s in the framework of the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia. Secondly, regarding the Middle East quagmire, it is important that all parties to the conflict, particularly 14 Palestine and Israel, as well as the international community, continue to pursue a peaceful solution to the Middle East conflict on the basis of the agreed road map of the Quartet. At the same time, I believe that it is vital for the leaders of both sides of this conflict to renounce the cycle of violence and overcome feelings of animosity and myopic interest. Instead, they should consider the broader collective interests of peaceful coexistence, a peaceful life for their peoples and stability in the region. There is a need for all sides to have a sense of political realism and shared determination to make peace possible. I believe that today peace in the Middle East will come only when both Palestine and Israel reasonably recognize in every way that they must coexist side by side, living in peace and harmony with each other and looking after the interests of one another. Peace, tolerance and harmony are the only way forward for the people of Palestine and Israel. In that regard, the international community must remain fully committed to continuing to support the Middle East process to its end. Thirdly, terrorism is still a very serious threat to humanity as a whole. Since the attacks of 11 September and the international reaction to fight terrorism, terrorists have been strengthening their worldwide networks. They also continue to kill innocent people everywhere in the world. In Asia and in South-East Asia, Jemaah Islamiah, which is linked to al Qaeda, has been responsible for a number of terrorist attacks in the region. The Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) has been actively responding to terrorism by strengthening cooperation at all levels, issuing various statements and taking concrete measures. Nevertheless, Jemaah Islamiah remains a significant threat to the region today, despite the progress in anti-terrorism action thus far. Fourthly, regarding global poverty, we recall the Millennium Summit held in New York and the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey and the recent G-8 Summit in Evian, France, where the overriding theme was the fight against poverty, which calls for concerted efforts for poverty alleviation and sustainable development. However, poverty remains a severe problem for the world, particularly the developing countries, with 1.2 billion people still surviving on less than one dollar a day. Despite clear messages from all those summits, especially from the developing countries, on the need to reduce poverty, the actions so far have not been decisive enough. I believe that, without concrete measures and the provision of adequate resources, it will be impossible for the least developed countries to overcome the current challenges of poverty, aggravated by the speed of globalization, which has contributed to the widening gap between the haves and the have-nots. Fighting poverty is not the responsibility of the least developed countries alone. It is the shared responsibility of the international community, in which the developed world has an important role to play. Poverty prevails today in many forms and dimensions. For the developed countries to share resources with the developing countries is not only an act of generosity, it is also a requirement for living together in a world of peace, security and harmony. In that regard, I am convinced that the international community must act collectively and in a spirit of responsibility and solidarity to end this alarming situation of poverty by taking concrete steps to reduce it gradually. The second major challenge involves regional developments. Regarding the regional situation, there have been many developments. Some have been positive; others negative. I wish to note several important developments since last year. First, the eighth ASEAN Summit and other related summits in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, have successfully advanced ASEAN integration by moving the region ahead in terms of establishing the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC), deepening cooperation between ASEAN and China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, and strengthening cooperation with India. With those four countries, ASEAN has enhanced close and proactive cooperation among a combined population of more than three billion people that has enormous economic potential and opportunities for development and growth. In addition, during that ASEAN Summit, its leaders also held, for the first time, a summit dialogue with Africa through President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, the current Chairman of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, NEPAD. Secondly, the situation in the Korean peninsula continues to evolve and give rise to concerns for countries that are directly involved. Cambodia fully supports the peace talks in Beijing and believes that only dialogue and compromise can provide the way out 15 of the present quandary. Although a number of outstanding issues need to be mutually resolved, I think it is important for all the parties concerned to reduce tension by avoiding hostile actions that would escalate the situation. I believe that one way of enabling the situation on the Korean Peninsula to move ahead positively is to negotiate a road map for a nuclear-free and secure Korean Peninsula. I believe that, if such a plan could go ahead, steps towards the normalization of the situation on the Korean Peninsula could be taken. Thirdly, I would like to refer to recent developments in Cambodia. The situation in Cambodia is continuing to improve significantly. The recent elections were held in a free, fair and democratic environment, as many international election observers noted in their statements. This year’s election marks another important milestone in Cambodia’s democratization, which has been strengthened at the grass-roots level through the successful local elections to communal councils last year. At the same time, Cambodia’s gross domestic product growth continues to show positive signs, with an approximate growth rate of 6.7 per cent per annum over the past five years, despite natural calamities and the impact of other regional and global developments, such as terrorism and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. In addition, the Government’s strategy gives top priority to poverty reduction. In March this year, the Cambodian Prime Minister, Samdech Hun Sen, officially launched the campaign for poverty alleviation aimed at reducing the poverty rate by 1.2 per cent every year. By 2015, the poverty level would be reduced to 19 per cent. In order to achieve that end, a budget of $1.5 billion has been projected. The third challenge is the reform of the United Nations. Every year, representatives of every delegation advocate to the Assembly the necessity of reforming the Organization, in particular the Security Council. I, too, believe that without sufficient reform in this world body, the United Nations cannot be an effective and efficient global Organization that is able to respond collectively to the complex global challenges affecting humanity in the twenty-first century. The world has witnessed a wave of democracy since the end of the cold war more than a decade ago. I believe, however, that democratization needs to start right here at the United Nations, which should respect the will of the community of nations. Any further inaction on the part of the United Nations with regard to the call for reform will mean a continuing decline in its credibility, as well as increasing loss of confidence in this universal institution. I believe that one of the key issues of United Nations reform is the need for the expansion of the Security Council. Cambodia calls once again for the expansion of the membership of the Security Council to include Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany and India as new permanent members, given the crucial role of these three countries in international political and economic affairs today. Moreover, the General Assembly, as the highest body of the United Nations, should play a more important role, in accordance with the Charter, for the maintenance of international peace and security. Furthermore, in the context of United Nations reform, I think that we should look beyond the conventional agenda of international peace and security, given that the glaring poverty in the world today is, without doubt, a peace and security issue. I believe that the United Nations should play a more meaningful role, within the broad framework of human security, in the world’s collective efforts to fight poverty. As the world marches on, I believe that we must perhaps devise new ways to deal with a myriad of challenges that menace the whole of humanity. We will have to close the gap between the poor and the rich and between the developed and developing countries. We must fight poverty and HIV/AIDS, which are affecting millions of people in the developing countries. We need to tackle together the growing impact of transnational crime. At the same time, we must pay greater attention to hotbeds of tension around the world in order to ensure a peaceful and secure world for all. Finally, we must continue to ensure that the United Nations is truly a democratic global institution that reflects the reality of the world today. We need to advance together in peace, security, stability, development and prosperity in building a better place for all peoples on the Earth. In conclusion, I believe the way forward for the world will depend largely on international cooperation and the need to share global resources more equitably. Growing interdependence and increasing globalization mean that every nation must work collectively in addressing the current challenges in the most effective way. 16 ﻿The international community is currently going through a period of reflection and self- definition. The great transformations that humanity experienced during the course of the previous decade, as well as current challenges, demand greater responsibility on the part of our nations in playing an active role in the search for urgent solutions to the problems that are affecting us. This new session of the General Assembly presents us with an excellent opportunity to achieve that goal. Today, the Dominican Republic reaffirms its commitment to peace, the defence of human rights, security, sustainable development and the strengthening of democracy — pillars of indisputable importance in safeguarding international peace and stability. The issue of the reform of the United Nations has been on our agenda for a long time. Events of recent years make it clear that this task must be undertaken as a matter of priority. The reform the Security Council is particularly urgent. Ever since the approval of resolution 47/62 of 11 December 1992, we have been engaged in an ongoing debate on the various reform proposals. Now, however, it is time to act to restructure the Council so as to make it more representative and equitable, as well as more transparent in its decision- making, thereby strengthening its legitimacy as the guarantor of international peace and security. Terrorism has emerged as an ongoing threat to humanity. Uncertainty and pain have characterized the beginning of the twenty-first century. Our nations have the challenge of fighting together, at a global level, against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and in favour of equitable development and free societies. Security problems call for decisive action against international terrorism, organized crime and the illegal trade in arms and drugs. The Millennium Summit established as one of its main goals the reduction of poverty by 50 per cent by 2015. Notwithstanding some progress in the achievement of those goals, poverty remains a terrible scourge. The Dominican Government, which considers that issue to be one of great importance, has created a Social Cabinet to act as a coordinating mechanism for all governmental institutions for social welfare, and is helping to ensure that both national and international resources are distributed equitably and allocated to regions that require social investment. All countries must join efforts, accepting responsibilities, both shared and separate, to guarantee that growth and poverty do not go together and that, in meeting the needs of the present generation, we do not cause the destruction of future generations’ capacity to meet their own needs. The positive outcome of the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, held in Doha, Qatar, in November 2001, and of the International Conference on Financing for Development held in Monterrey, Mexico, in March 2002, was a key element for achieving millennium development goals. The Doha Development Agenda and the Monterrey Consensus provided a framework to facilitate market access, improve multilateral regulations for channelling globalization and increase financial aid for development. However, we must mention what happened at the Fifth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization (WTO) recently held in Cancún, Mexico. Although agreement was not reached because of fundamental differences in the positions regarding essential world trade issues, we are convinced that this will not affect the multilateral system of negotiations. On the contrary, some member states maintain that this impasse may even be necessary to shape more equitable international agreements at the heart of the WTO. What is an important issue is not to lose the development perspective within the work programme of the WTO, as set in the Doha Development Agenda, because that agenda includes the aspirations of millions of people around the world, whose hope for progress lies in the opportunities of the global economy. The position of the Dominican Government with regard to the Middle East conflict is based primarily on unconditional adherence to the norms and principles of international law, particularly those related to the peaceful solution of disputes; condemning the use of force and terrorism in all its forms; complying in good faith with international treaties; and on strict observance of resolutions of the United Nations and its deliberative bodies. Devoted to these principles, the Dominican Republic has, in response to the humanitarian appeals 17 of the Security Council, participated in the efforts to rebuild Iraq, in order to contribute to the development of a secure and stable environment in which the sovereignty of the Iraqi people may be restored. Similarly, our country supports the peace process outlined in the road map submitted by the United States of America and endorsed by the Russian Federation, the United Nations and the European Union. We understand that a cessation of violence cannot be postponed, along with the historic pledges of all parties to make sacrifices to promote a lasting solution to the conflict and peaceful coexistence. Drawing up sustainable development policies calls for dealing with problems before they emerge. This implies making headway in achieving the millennium development goals, particularly on crucial issues such as energy and protection of the environment. In this respect, our nation reiterates its rejection of the international maritime transport of radioactive and toxic waste, a position which has been expressed in other international forums. This issue is linked to international security. The importance of guaranteeing women equal rights and equity, and promoting their increased political participation, has been a continuous concern of the heads of State in various international forums. The International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW), the only institution within the United Nations system dedicated exclusively to that end, has its headquarters in Santo Domingo, capital of the Dominican Republic. The Dominican Government calls upon Member States to continue supporting the work of INSTRAW in the Dominican Republic by providing contributions, to the extent that they can. Our country commends the culture of peace, and is making efforts to ensure that at the primary level children are taught about promoting mutual understanding and learn about civics and human rights. Similarly, we believe that a solid and permanent democracy is an achievable goal. The challenges here are clear: growing democracy, more respect for civic rights, freedom of the press; freedom of expression of political parties and public opinion; dignity and transparency of all leaders and the moral legitimacy of all. Deeply concerned about the spread of HIV/AIDS in our nation, the Government has made great efforts to comply with the commitments entered into in the Declaration on fighting this terrible disease. We call for increased international cooperation and efforts to guarantee the availability of drugs at affordable prices, based on the Doha Declaration on intellectual property and the right to health. The Dominican Republic salutes with optimism the role played by the United Nations and the Organization of American States (OAS) in efforts to develop humanitarian aid programmes for the Haitian people. It is imperative to stress here the need for greater support from the international community for our neighbouring republic of Haiti and its neglected population. Although we are aware that this issue has been excluded from the agenda of the current session , we wish to state our support for the aspirations of the Republic of China, Taiwan, to rejoin this Organization, of which it was a Member for many years. Our position is in line with the universal principles contained in the Charter, the basis of the rules of international law and the historical tradition of friendly relations with Taiwan. On behalf of the Dominican Government, Sir, may I congratulate you on your election as President, confident that your conduct of this session will be successful, beneficial for the international community and a source of pride to your country, Saint Lucia, and thus to our Caribbean community. I also wish to express the Dominican Government’s rejection of the barbaric act perpetrated against the United Nations Mission in Baghdad on 19 August, and to reiterate to the families of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and of the other deceased colleagues our most heartfelt condolences. We are all aware of the great challenges confronting humanity. Our future depends on the actions we take now. We have the opportunity to meet the expectations of the nations of the world. Let us take up this challenge with all due responsibility.  ﻿We thank Jan Kavan for his work, and we welcome Mr. Julian Hunte in the difficult year that awaits him. At the beginning of this millennium, a summit of the world's leaders produced a set of development goals aimed at protecting life and promoting dignity for all peoples. This seemed an appropriate way to begin the third millennium of our modern era. Each year since then, however, we have been reminded that this millennium started very differently and has forced us to address profound challenges to our assumptions, our relationships and our way of life. Beginning with 11 September and continuing with the violence and political crises around the world, each of our societies, nations and regions has been transformed by the intensity of these threats to our way of life and to our security. These crises are forcing a transformation of this Organization as well. Today, reform has become essential not just in the way we decide, act and operate, but in the way we think. Reforms cannot be delayed if this General Assembly and this Organization are to be truly relevant as facilitators of world peace. If the United Nations is for the peaceful, prosperous and democratic development of today's world, then it must undergo its own democratization, so that it will have the increased moral authority to direct others through reform and democratic transition. An organization that espouses dialogue and negotiation as alternatives to violence and conflict ought to find ways through dialogue and negotiation to arrive at a consensus on how to resolve the critical, universal issues facing us today. This General Assembly has the chance to go down in history, not as an undermined, inadequate but well-meaning giant, but as a viable instrument of world peace. The Secretary-General's goals, from United Nations budget and financing reform to reconstituting and enlarging the Security Council, are the building blocks of the relevant, responsive, comprehending, world forum for international cooperation that the United Nations can be. We applaud his decision to empower a commission to give concrete form to the wishes of many. Each year we speak of the need for a comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East, never believing that next year, the region can become even more volatile and explosive. We believe the United Nations and all Member States must continue to support the renewal of the full-scale peace process. In Israel and Palestine, Armenia hails the Quartet's efforts, recognizing that the endangered road map remains the only viable option for peace in a long- suffering region. The situation in Iraq makes the debate about the hows and whys of this conflict irrelevant. The world's small countries are accustomed to making political compromises to join the international flow. In Iraq, the principal Powers, too, must compromise so that a more engaged and empowered United Nations can rally a broad range of countries from the immediate region, as well as the rest of the world, to take on responsibility in bringing democracy and stability to a critical part of the Middle East. It is ironic and in many ways lamentable that the evil of terrorism is what has caused us to rally together. We are fully aware that no single Government can effectively fight this danger alone. Unfortunately, the necessity for coherent measures and cooperation at national, regional and international levels is often stalled, as for example in our region, where a common threat that knows no borders is not only being addressed individually and in isolation, but also exploited for political reasons. In our region, there is much political exploitation. The new Prime Minister of Azerbaijan made plain from this podium yesterday that in his Government's election year, they are willing, at their peril, to ignore the realities which are self-evident. Nearly a decade of negotiations brought us, two years ago, to Key West, Florida, where, hosted by the United States 31 Government and under the watchful eyes of the Minsk Group Co-Chairmen, the President of Armenia and whether the Prime Minister of Azerbaijan likes it or not the President of Azerbaijan did in fact reach an understanding which reflected those realities. There are two myths in Azerbaijan today both of them faulty, miscalculated and risky. Since 1992, Azerbaijan has convinced itself that if they just hold out long enough, Armenia's economy will capitulate, and leave Nagorny Karabakh unprotected and defenceless. Their calculations that a blockade of Armenia would mean that our economic and social conditions will plummet while their oil-based economy grows have proven misguided and misinformed. Not only has Armenia's economy not succumbed to political pressures, but our rate of growth is greater than Azerbaijan's and not only Azerbaijan's. Nevertheless, they continue to cling to a second and related myth. Dreaming of future oil sales whose revenues will be used to buy armaments, Azerbaijan is anticipating the day when it will again have the resources to pursue a military solution. This is self- deception, as well. Azerbaijan has forgotten that similar fantasies led them to respond militarily to the peaceful demands of Nagorny Karabakh's population for self-determination in 1992. The military balance was hugely in their favour then, in proportions far greater than what they might hope for in the future. Still, the moral, historical, legal and psychological balance favoured the people of Nagorny Karabakh, who were fighting for their homes, their families, their security, their lives and their futures. The armaments of Azerbaijan did not then and cannot ever break the will of the people of Nagorny Karabakh to live freely on their own land. Indeed, Azerbaijanis are victims, but of their own aggression. They started the war, one-sidedly. They began massacring Armenians, citizens of the Azerbaijani cities of Sumgait, Baku and Ganja the most irresponsible reaction that a Government can undertake, using the most inhuman methods associated with pogroms. The war that followed changed the world for two generations of Armenians, who have never lived under Azerbaijani rule. Azerbaijan's leadership, old and new, rather than remaining prisoners to the Soviet era which they themselves rejected as historically illegitimate can look to a future of compromise, peace, regional cooperation and prosperous, stable development. Armenia intends to go forward. Indeed, we already have. The year 2003 has been a very good year for Armenia. On the economic front, our steady, double-digit growth rate is the fastest in the Commonwealth of Independent States and in Europe. This has led some to call Armenia the Caucasian tiger. We are pleased with the name and the challenge. We know that with economic growth comes an even greater responsibility: to confront the social gaps which can lead to social inequality and domestic instability. The shortest path to the eradication of transitional ills such as the polarization of society, the urban-rural gap and uneven access to higher education is to sustain that high level of economic growth. That is why, with the help of the United Nations Development Programme, we embarked on the sustainable economic development programme. That is why the Government has approved and launched a poverty reduction strategy. It is also why achieving the Millennium Development Goals for poverty eradication, the awareness and prevention of HIV/AIDS and the empowerment of women is an important part of Armenia's development strategy. In Armenia, the United Nations plays a key role in promoting synergies directed at expanding the development impact of information and communications technologies. As we prepare for the World Summit on the Information Society in December in Geneva, Armenia is living a hopeful paradox. On the one hand, less than half of our more than one thousand schools are connected to the Internet; on the other hand, information and communications technologies (ICTs) comprise a significant proportion of Armenia's exports today. Still, too many in our country just like the majority of the world population still remain untouched by the ICT revolution and its potential. We recognize, of course, that ICTs can be central in economies like ours, especially given the continuing blockade. Our economic growth has continued despite the blockade, which goes against the spirit and the conclusions of the recent United Nations sponsored International Ministerial Conference on Transit Transport Cooperation, which reaffirmed the right of access by landlocked countries to and from the sea and their freedom of transit through the territory of their neighbours by all means of transport, in accordance with the applicable rules of international law. For us, that means a condemnation of the practice of unilateral 32 coercive economic measures intended as political pressure. This was also a good year for our legislative reform process. The Armenian parliament has ratified the Sixth Protocol of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, thus unconditionally abolishing the death penalty. We also adopted the draft law on the ombudsman, thus empowering our citizens and investing them with the faith necessary to govern with justice and to be governed with dignity. Another matter that is important for us and for all humanity: Armenia continues to engage countries and Governments around the world to recognize and condemn the first genocide of the twentieth century. The survivors of the genocide and their descendants are helping to build a democratic Armenia, committed to the future without forgetting the past. When Sergio Vieira de Mello visited Armenia several years ago, he came looking for ways to minimize the pain and suffering of Armenian refugees forced to flee their homes in Baku and Sumgait in Azerbaijan. This year, as he worked to minimize the pain and suffering of the people of Iraq, to help them rebuild their country and their Government, he and too many of his colleagues lost their lives. His death and that of Anna Lindh of Sweden remind us that ideas, more than people, scare and threaten. Those two brutal murders also suggest to us louder than any demonstration that the leadership of the world still has much to do in engaging the rejectionists, the extremists and the cynical. Our positive, forward-looking, determined steps here in the General Assembly will go a long way towards convincing them. ﻿It is with great pleasure that I extend to you, Mr. President, our warmest felicitations on your election. I also congratulate your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan, for his effective leadership during the previous session of the General Assembly. We support Secretary-General Kofi Annan’s efforts to infuse a new sense of mission into the United Nations and maintain the centrality of its role in the promotion of global peace and security. We pay tribute to the memory of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and the other United Nations officials who sacrificed their lives in the service of peace. When the Berlin Wall collapsed, hopes revived for a new age of cooperation and peace, free from ideological confrontations. Sadly, those hopes were dashed — by ethnic cleansing in Bosnia, and then in Kosovo; by the failure to end the occupation of Palestine, leading to the revived intifada against Israeli occupation; by the brutal suppression of the Kashmiri’s demand for self-determination and freedom from Indian occupation; by the unending war in Afghanistan and the international neglect which created a climate in which extremism and terrorism could breed; and by the series of international financial crises and the rise of poverty as a consequence of unequal economic globalization. The terrible terrorist atrocity of 11 September 2001 jolted the foundations of the international system. The response has weakened al Qaeda, but it has not eliminated its associates. Terrorists have struck repeatedly around the world — in Indonesia, Tunisia, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Russia, Kenya and my country, Pakistan. 18 The tragedy of 11 September 2001 transformed security policies and changed geopolitical calculations. Pakistan took a strategic decision, based on our principles of humanity and national interest, to support the war on terrorism. There should be no doubt whatsoever about intentions. Our actions speak louder than words. Our capabilities were limited, but they have been progressively improved. We are acting against al Qaeda and its associates very effectively. We have also acted against other organizations or groups involved in any form of terrorism. Pakistan will remain at the forefront of the war on terrorism. The war against terrorism must be fought comprehensively, on a global front, with vision and understanding. It should not erode the moral values of our societies. It must not be hijacked by those who seek to use it as an excuse to suppress other peoples. It must not be allowed to engender a clash of civilizations — a clash between Islam and the West. It is unfortunate that great religions — which should be a source of hope, tolerance and peace — are seen as being pitted against each other. Many Muslims believe their eternal faith is being demonized. They see Muslim peoples being cruelly suppressed for demanding freedom and equality, or targeted for discrimination and worse. On the other hand, the West perceives the Islamic world as volatile and hostile, bent upon striking at Western values. Muslims are often seen as fanatics, extremists and terrorists. Against the background of this volatile milieu, the recent war in Iraq evoked negative reactions in most Arab and Islamic countries. This moment in history calls for reflection, introspection and action. The thesis of a clash of civilizations is a travesty. We must bridge the gulf of misunderstanding between Islam and the West. We must be the catalysts of change, not the prophets of doom. Islam is a faith of peace, harmony and justice. Islam is democracy in action. It upholds human rights, social equality, non-discrimination and freedom of speech. The protection of minorities is an article of faith in Islam. It does not discriminate on the basis of colour, caste, creed or religion. Our faith is dynamic, promoting constant renewal and adaptation, through the process of ijtihad — interpretation through consultation. Islam’s vision is not trapped in any one period of history; it is modern and futuristic. Islam must not be confused with the narrow vision of a few extremists. I believe the way forward is to adopt a two- pronged — or double-pincer — strategy to build harmony, promote moderation, oppose extremism and ensure justice. I call this the strategy of enlightened moderation. On the one hand, Muslim nations must assume their responsibility for internal reform and renewal. They are at the crossroads. They must eschew extremism and confrontation. They must embrace the march of human civilization. They must address the deficits in their social and economic development. They must seek science and technology, higher education and human resource development. The international community — especially the advanced countries of the West — must deliver the other pincer in this strategy of enlightened moderation. They can do so by helping to resolve political disputes and situations in which Muslim peoples are being suppressed, such as in Palestine and Kashmir; by rejecting attempts to equate terrorism with Islam; and by assisting the Muslim world in poverty alleviation and in socio-economic development. The United Nations itself has a crucial role to play in the conception and execution of the strategy of enlightened moderation. In that context, it is clear that a consensus must be quickly developed at the United Nations on ways to restore Iraq’s stability, security and sovereignty. Iraq cannot be allowed to remain an open wound. That would have an impact on the region and could inject a new dimension into the campaign against terrorism and extremism. The consensus that is developed must enable the Iraqi people, through an inclusive political process, to determine the sequence of steps leading to a fully representative Iraqi Government and to an end to occupation. The Iraqi people should assume control of their resources and of their political destiny as soon as possible. They must receive the full support of the international community, including Iraq’s neighbours and the Arab and the Islamic countries, in building security and in reconstructing their country. Pakistan would be prepared to help in a collective United- Nations-sanctioned Arab and Islamic effort to help the Iraqi people, if they themselves wish us to do so. Endeavours to stabilize Iraq will be enhanced by progress in promoting peace with justice in the Middle 19 East. Hopes for a just and comprehensive peace were aroused earlier this year by the Quartet’s road map; those hopes have been progressively dimmed. But failure is not an option at all. The fate of the Palestinian people is the principal factor in determining public and political perceptions in the entire Islamic world. It is only progress towards a just peace that can marginalize the extremists. Therefore, we must revive faithful implementation of the road map and must realize the vision of two States, Palestine and Israel, living side by side in peace within recognized boundaries. We must ensure successful implementation of the Bonn process in Afghanistan. The international stabilization force should be expanded and enlarged to ensure security and control over all parts of Afghanistan by President Karzai’s Government. Pakistan will continue to contribute to interdicting and arresting al Qaeda and associated terrorists. We will further intensify our economic cooperation with Afghanistan. It is essential that Afghanistan’s territory not be used by third countries for interference or for terrorism against Afghanistan’s neighbours. Jammu and Kashmir has been rightly described as the most dangerous dispute in the world. A just solution of that dispute holds the key to peace and security in South Asia. I am glad that India has stepped back from its dangerous and failed experiment in coercive diplomacy last year. Despite some improvement in the political atmosphere, India continues to suppress the legitimate struggle of the Kashmiri people to exercise their right of self- determination, in accordance with Security Council resolutions. It refuses Pakistan’s offers of dialogue to address and resolve the Kashmir dispute once and for all. India cites cross-border terrorism in order to reject dialogue. It knows full well that the Kashmiri struggle is indigenous. India seeks to exploit the international anti-terrorist sentiment after 11 September to delegitimize the Kashmiri freedom struggle. On the contrary, it is India which violates international law by refusing to implement Security Council resolutions and by perpetrating gross and consistent violations of human rights in Kashmir. Once again, from this rostrum, I invite India to join Pakistan in a sustained dialogue to resolve the Kashmir dispute. I am convinced that, with goodwill, we can find a just solution which is acceptable to India, to Pakistan and, above all, to the people of Kashmir. I also invite India, jointly with Pakistan, to observe a complete ceasefire along the Line of Control in Kashmir. Pakistan would also be prepared to encourage a general cessation of violence within Kashmir involving reciprocal obligations and restraints on Indian forces and on the Kashmir freedom movement. And, may I add, if India is genuinely concerned about infiltration across the Line of Control, we ask that it agree to a viable mechanism to monitor such infiltration on both sides of the Line. The United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan could be enlarged for that very purpose. Apart from addressing Kashmir, sustainable security in South Asia requires India and Pakistan to institute measures to ensure mutual nuclear restraint and a conventional-arms balance. Unfortunately, India has embarked on a massive build-up of its conventional and non-conventional military capabilities — advanced offensive aircraft, ballistic and cruise missiles, anti- ballistic-missile systems, nuclear submarines and an aircraft carrier. That will destabilize South Asia and erode strategic deterrence. Those Powers which desire peace, stability and security in South Asia, and oppose the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, must review their decisions to offer such major strategic- weapons systems to India. They must contribute to maintaining arms restraint and a military balance in South Asia. The crises and conflicts of the past decade have enhanced, not diminished, the relevance of the United Nations. The United Nations remains the central forum for dialogue and diplomacy, and it must be strengthened. The Security Council must be made more representative by increasing the number of non- permanent members. New permanent members will only expand inequality. States which occupy and suppress other peoples, and defy the resolutions of the Council, have absolutely no credentials to aspire to permanent Security Council membership. We are on the cusp of a new millennium. It is a decisive moment in history. We must decide whether to flow with the currents that threaten confrontation and the collapse of civilizations, or to muster the collective will to chart the course of history towards a peaceful and cooperative global society. The leaders assembled 20 here bear an enormous responsibility to rescue our world from war and violence, poverty and pestilence; to redress inequity and impoverishment, which breed despair and destruction; and finally, to collectively construct a new global architecture of peace and prosperity for all peoples and all nations. ﻿First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session and to express gratitude to Mr. Jan Kavan for his work as the President during the fifty-seventh session. This year has been hard for the United Nations. The events surrounding Iraq have revealed weak links in the system of international security. Not for the first time, the Security Council, owing to disagreements among its members, was unable to ensure the implementation of its resolutions and to react adequately to the situation. Those disagreements continue to have a critical influence on the activity of the Security Council with regard to both Iraq and other crises and conflicts. It is clear that existing United Nations mechanisms do not meet the requirements of our time, and it is necessary 28 to reform the United Nations, including the Security Council, which reflects the reality of half a century ago. Azerbaijan supports the well-known reform proposals of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, in particular with regard to the expansion of the membership of the Security Council, and counts on the goodwill of the permanent members of the Council with regard to the revision of its mechanisms, in particular the right of veto. We hope that the international community will now be able to consolidate its efforts to restore and strengthen a united and indivisible Iraq and to establish democracy based on the free will of all of the Iraqi people. Our country, which is ready to take part in this process, has begun to contribute to the strengthening of security and stability in Iraq. The terrorist act against the United Nations Headquarters in Baghdad shocked the entire international community. The death of Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues was a tragic loss for the Organization and all of us. What happened in Baghdad once again showed how vulnerable we are in the face of terror and convinced us that terrorists are capable of committing any crime. The only response should be an uncompromising commitment to fight against anyone who resorts to terrorism, no matter what goals are used as a cover. Selectivity and double standards have no place in this respect. Our country, which has fallen victim to the aggression, occupation and terror unleashed by Armenia, has for years been fighting terrorism on its own. Our appeals to the international community to unite its efforts in combating terrorism went unheeded. The alarm went off only after 11 September 2001. Success in the fight against terrorism cannot be achieved without eradicating the underlying roots and eliminating the factors that create a favourable environment for its dissemination. On the other hand, it is not possible to resolve conflicts throughout the world, including in the southern Caucasus, under conditions of continuing terrorism or of support for it at the State level. We have to keep in mind that terrorist groups, created and developed by separatist and extremist forces, are usually based in illegally controlled territories, in the so-called grey zones that emerge as a result of acts of armed separatism and external aggression. One such uncontrolled grey zone is Nagorny Karabakh and other regions of the Republic of Azerbaijan, occupied by Armenian military forces. While carrying out the comprehensive struggle against terror and resolving conflicts on the basis of principles and norms of international law, the international community should decisively resort to force. That is the only effective way of restoring justice and ensuring the rule of law. The delegation of Azerbaijan has repeatedly drawn the attention of the international community from this high rostrum to the ongoing conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Ten years have elapsed since the Security Council adopted four resolutions demanding the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the Armenian occupying forces from the Azerbaijani territories. However, Armenia continues to challenge the international community by ignoring those decisions, whereas the Security Council and the Minsk Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) do not undertake any adequate measures in that regard. Azerbaijan has on many occasions declared its commitment to the peaceful settlement of the conflict on the basis of norms and principles of international law. We are determined to continue with our efforts in this direction, and we count on the active participation of the international community. Azerbaijan will never accept a settlement on the basis of the so-called existing realities and will not cede a single inch of its land. Azerbaijan's patience is not limitless, and no one should try to take advantage of it. Responsibility for the deadlock in the settlement lies with the aggressor Armenia, and not with the victim of aggression, Azerbaijan. The passive position of an observer taken by the international community can only aggravate that deadlock. Only after Armenia evacuates all the Azerbaijani territories and thus creates a basis for the peaceful settlement of the conflict can Armenia count on normal inter-State relations and cooperation with Azerbaijan. By rejecting our constructive proposals, based on the observance of international law, Armenia is demonstrating its genuine intention to seize and annex Azerbaijani territories. Armenia's authorities continue to profess the ideology of aggressive nationalism, militarism, 29 separatism and terrorism and to doom their people to the deepest crisis. In a society where territorial expansion and the search for external enemies are instilled as a national idea, democracy and pluralism cannot take root. It should be realized in Armenia that the present situation of its conflict with Azerbaijan will not only fail to resolve but will also certainly aggravate its own serious internal social and economic problems. It is with a sense of regret that one has to acknowledge that inaction by the international community leads to the strengthened self-confidence of Armenia in pursuing its destructive policy. Both the OSCE Minsk Group and the Security Council have backed off in the face of illegitimate force, thus calling into question the seriousness of their intentions and continuity of their actions. Appeasement of the aggressor seriously undermines the whole system of international security, which is based on the inviolability of principles and norms of international law. That attitude has on many occasions taken a heavy toll on the international community. We appeal to the Security Council to carry out the necessary measures in order to ensure the implementation of the above-mentioned four resolutions, and we expect that decisive steps will be taken to stop criminal and aggressive actions in the occupied territories and on the line of engagement, as well as to push the occupying forces to unconditionally, immediately and completely evacuate the seized Azerbaijani territories. The conflict has deprived almost one million Azerbaijanis of roofs over their heads. It is clear that the forthcoming winter will again become another hard test for the refugees and the internally displaced persons, hundreds of thousand of whom continue to live in tent camps. The Government of Azerbaijan, using its limited resources, spares no effort to mitigate their suffering. Recently, the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan by decree allocated more than $70 million to the construction of housing for refugees. While we highly appreciate the assistance of the international community, we nevertheless are worried by its decreasing scale. We urge the relevant United Nations agencies and donor countries, as well as non- governmental organizations, to boost their attention to the problems of the forcefully displaced Azerbaijani population and to respond adequately to their needs. As for the long-term resolution of this problem, it lies, of course, in the settlement of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan and in the return of the refugees and internally displaced persons to their homes. The conflict has also severely damaged the economy of Azerbaijan. However, having mobilized our domestic resources, we managed to overcome serious social-economic crises and to move towards stabilization and development. Economic reform policies and the oil strategy elaborated and being implemented under the leadership of the President of Azerbaijan, His Excellency Mr. Heydar Aliyev, have already yielded concrete results. These reforms have led to macroeconomic stability and high economic growth rates. The promotion of the market economy and entrepreneurship increased the share of the private sector of the economy to 73 per cent. Figures on foreign direct investment per capita show that Azerbaijan is one of the leaders among the countries with economies in transition. On average, the annual economic growth rate is between 8 per cent and 10 per cent. The implementation of large-scale transregional projects on development and transportation of hydrocarbon resources of the Caspian Sea to the world market and the diversification of transport corridors, initiated by Azerbaijan, have opened new prospects for the social and economic development of countries along the East-West corridor, aimed at the restoration of the historic Silk Road. This progress would be impossible without internal political stability, which has created the prerequisites and conditions for implementing radical political reforms and the development of democratic society. Today, Azerbaijani democracy stands at the edge of its next test of maturity and firmness. On October 15, the elections for President of the Republic will be held in Azerbaijan. The legislative basis for conducting genuinely free and fair elections has been established in the country. The recently adopted Election Code was widely discussed at the local and international levels, and it meets the highest international standards. Numerous international observers of the OSCE, the Council of Europe and other international organizations, as well as local observers, will follow the presidential elections. 30 The triumph of democracy, social progress and sustainable development on a global scale are impossible unless the problems of poverty and sharp disproportion in economic performance across different countries and regions are resolved. In that regard, the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals is extremely important. Combating poverty presupposes close interaction between developed and developing countries. Regrettably, there is still no breakthrough in that regard. Developed States should pay more attention to the problems of the countries with economies in transition. Experience proves that narrow-minded interests frequently prevail, and thus deadlocks emerge in the negotiation process. Azerbaijan believes that enlargement of parties to the multilateral trade system, as well as granting the provisions of special and differential treatment in the World Trade Organization (WTO) to both developing countries and countries with economies in transition, will contribute to the successful global integration of the latter. We are firmly convinced of the need to develop a dialogue among civilizations and cultures. Only through dialogue and good will shall we defeat mistrust and confrontation, and unify our forces in addressing common threats and challenges. In conclusion, allow me once again to reiterate Azerbaijan's strong adherence to its political course, aimed at building a strong democratic State with a market economy, and our genuine willingness and desire to effectively contribute to peace and international security.  ﻿The delegation of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea joins preceding delegations in congratulating the President on his election to preside over the work of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We know that it is a very difficult task, Sir, because it is your task to organize the debates of this the greatest deliberative organ of the United Nations at a time when the Organization and the international community are experiencing a crisis unprecedented in its history. However, Sir, we have confidence in your political and diplomatic ability and in the maturity and prudence of your country in dealing with international problems; thus we are optimistic that our deliberations will meet with the greatest success. We also congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan on his tireless efforts to ensure that the United Nations fulfils its mission of peace in the various armed conflicts, its humanitarian action in response to the disasters affecting many countries and its efforts to promote peace negotiations and multiple forms of cooperation in order to achieve sustainable development in the world. The Republic of Equatorial Guinea expresses before the Assembly its serious concern at the current international situation, which is manifestly affecting international peace and security, which the United Nations was created to safeguard. Indeed, since the end of the cold war, which gave rise to hope for a more united, cooperative, integrated and peaceful world of greater solidarity, it has seemed that the principle rules governing international relations have been steadily losing force, with the risk that each State will act according to its own will. The concepts of democracy, human rights and technical cooperation and assistance are being misused to the detriment of some, and are being exploited to the benefit of others. The concept of democracy, which is understood as governing according to the will of each people, has today been transformed into a demand imposed by certain States in violation of the universal principle that every State is free to adopt the political system that best suits it. Furthermore, the principles of State sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States, enshrined in international law, have been violated in recent years under the pretext of the need for humanitarian intervention, which are often conducted without United Nations approval. The efforts to establish a new international economic order that ensures cooperation for global development have ended in the division of the world into North and South, and political conditions are now being imposed on the cooperative assistance that is 17 offered. Efforts towards the globalization of economic policies have not recognized the weak position of underdeveloped countries, which suffer grave disadvantages in participating and competing in the so- called globalization of the world. We believe that the policy of globalization needs to include a special programme for the sustainable development of developing countries in order to help them attain the level of maturity necessary to benefit from such an integration. In all these efforts to achieve international cooperation for global development, there are good intentions, but the decisive will needed to build a fairer and more equitable world has been lacking. Meanwhile, the situation of the weakest countries deteriorates, the economic crisis worsens, political upheaval spreads and Governments are taking a harsher stance to protect their power. Internal warfare, mercenaries and terrorism are taking root because, as occurred in the Middle Ages, the people cannot bear hunger and poverty and are driven to civil disobedience. At the same time, the United Nations is losing its authority because its decision-making organs are not democratic, and its capacity for humanitarian assistance falls short because of the proliferation of disasters caused by wars and acts of terrorism. In our opinion, and most regrettably, humanity is already dehumanized and the United Nations has lost its authority. We must now shoulder the responsibility of rebuilding our policies and of morally rebuilding the Organization and restoring its authority. It is the only world body capable of representing humanity with authority and the only one in which we can achieve universal consensus. It is here that we can fight terrorism and organized crime, because everything is listened to and everything is discussed in this forum. The use of weapons against terrorism could turn us into terrorists ourselves. Thus my delegation naturally and energetically condemns the terrorist attack against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, which caused the death of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and those of some 30 staff working in the service of peace. We express our deep condolences at the loss of those noble workers in the service of humanity. We therefore believe that now is the time to adopt strategies so that United Nations peacekeeping missions will not be confused with any interests other than the peaceful settlement of hostilities. As for my country, Equatorial Guinea is faithful to its commitments as a full-fledged Member of the United Nations and a member of the African Union, committed to the maintenance of peaceful relations of friendship and cooperation with other countries. We respect the sovereignty, national unity, territorial integrity and inalienable rights of other States within their borders, and we favour the promotion of the socio-political development of nations. In that connection, Equatorial Guinea is a party to all international conventions that protect the political, economic and sociocultural rights of peoples. Democracy, as the consensus of the people, is a reality in which our country is immersed, with the coexistence of the 13 political parties that constitute it, observing the commitments of the binding national political pact between the Government and the opposition. Undoubtedly, today the formation of a broad-based Government is the greatest exponent of peace and political stability that my country has ever known. In order to ensure such internal political consensus and cooperation with other countries and international organizations, we believe that transparency is absolutely necessary, because it benefits all parties. Equatorial Guinea offers open and unrestricted cooperation to everyone, on the basis of transparent action, for everyone's mutual benefit. Nevertheless, we are aware that our possibilities are very limited as far as acquiring modern technology and laying the foundations for sustained and sustainable and development are concerned. Therefore, we request international cooperation in that regard from friendly countries and from international assistance organizations. I conclude by expressing the hope that the United Nations will recover its leadership in promoting the peace and development of our world.  ﻿Let me congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, and to wish you every success in your important position. It is a pleasure to see as President a representative of Saint Lucia, the smallest country ever to hold the office. That fact upholds the Charter principle of the sovereign equality of nations in this important world body, as well as the desirability of universal membership in the United Nations, where all countries, large and small, have something to contribute. I also take this opportunity, Sir, to thank your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his work and efforts devoted to the activities of the United Nations throughout the past year. It was a great honour for the Czech Republic to preside over the General Assembly and to use that unique opportunity to further enhance the United Nations capacity and ability to respond to current global challenges. Let me also express my country's deepest sympathies to all who have lost loved ones in terrorist attacks, including the attack on the United Nations building in Baghdad, which claimed the lives of the Secretary-General's Special Representative in Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello, and a number of his co- workers. We view that horrible act as an attack against the principles of freedom, democracy and peace, the principles on which our Organization is built. The United Nations effort aimed at the stabilization, democratization and reconstruction of Iraq has the full support of my country, and I appreciate the bold and selfless work done by the staff of the United Nations. The United Nations plays an irreplaceable role in that field. We therefore support the idea of adopting a new Security Council resolution that would provide a framework for the widest possible participation of other countries. The Czech Republic will actively participate in that process, and is determined to continue its engagement. The recent terrorist attacks in Iraq and other regions of the Middle East strengthen our conviction that the international community must not give in to terrorist threats. On the contrary, we must combine and intensify our efforts to combat them. The success of cooperation between the United Nations, the Coalition Provisional Authority and Iraqi representatives in stabilizing the situation in Iraq and handing over the country's administration to the Iraqi people will be the essential step in that direction. The Czech Republic therefore welcomes the establishment of the Governing Council, the appointment of provisional ministers and the continued work on drafting a constitution, and is interested in the speedy creation of a stable Government in Iraq that will honour its international commitments and respect human rights and freedoms and the fundamental principles of democracy. But that is not something than can happen overnight, as we know from our own experience. The transition from dictatorship to a functioning democracy takes some time. We believe that progress in the Middle East peace process based on the road map must be at the centre of the efforts of the whole international community. We should not allow extremist and terrorist groups to dominate its agenda, as recent developments have 12 shown. At the same time, we call upon all parties involved to exercise maximum restraint in taking actions that may contradict the achievement of a peaceful political settlement of the crisis, especially extrajudicial killings and suicide bombings. The Czech Republic supports activities aimed at reviving and continuing the implementation of the peace plan. In their talks, the Quartet and the parties concerned must take stock of the peace plan and identify obstacles on the road to peace, as well as outstanding tasks before the Government of Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Without proper implementation, the road map will suffer the same fate as those of the numerous peace initiatives we have seen in the past. The problems of the Middle East are very complex. My country would like to emphasize three basic issues in this fragile phase that we consider crucial for the implementation and success of the road map for peace, namely, the security aspects of a peace settlement, the consistent suppression of all manifestations of terrorism and the consolidation and strengthening of the position of the Palestinian Government and its process of reform, including concrete steps to confront terror and violence. In our view, tangible changes in the situation on the ground should be an inseparable part of those efforts. At the same time, with their vision of their own independent State, Palestinians should feel that their economic and humanitarian situation is improving. The Czech Republic is prepared to assume its share of responsibility in the efforts to improve the economic situation of Palestinian autonomous territories at both the bilateral and multilateral levels. The restoration of ethnic peace, the strengthening of stability and economic growth remain the main objectives of the international community in the crisis regions of the Balkans. In the present circumstances, the maintenance of an international presence in the region is still a necessary prerequisite for the development of democracy and the strengthening of peace. The United Nations and other international organizations must exercise their control function even more systematically, use their experience in assisting in the transformation of society, ensure the active participation of all ethnic groups in the area of administration, create conditions for the safe return of refugees, help with development of local economies and curb organized crime. I am convinced that Mr. Harri Holkeri, the new Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Kosovo, will further contribute to the achievement of the declared objectives. The transfer of competencies from the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo to local authorities must, at the same time, include the transfer of responsibilities for the achievement of the objectives set by the international administration and, above all, the creation of conditions for the safe return of refugees. For the sake of the functioning of a multi-ethnic society, it is also necessary to ensure the active participation of all ethnic groups in the administration of the province. The Czech Republic supports all international efforts in the field of disarmament and arms control, including verification of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. That process is a long-term priority of Czech foreign policy. The Czech Republic devotes considerable attention to the relevant international treaties and conventions in that regard and takes an active part in addressing security problems. We are convinced that it is necessary to promote and strengthen universal adherence to the three major multilateral agreements relating to weapons of mass destruction, namely, the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention. In that connection, we also support the promotion of an early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Particular emphasis should be placed on establishing effective verification mechanisms, namely, for the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention. We consider the Additional Protocol to the NPT, which creates an integral part of the International Atomic Energy Agency's safeguards system and strengthens the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, to be a very important element of the verification system. That is why it is urgent for the States that have not entered into safeguards agreements with the International Atomic Energy Agency to do so and to fulfil their obligations under article III of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. We believe that the Additional Protocol should be made the standard for all NPT signatory States. 13 The problems associated with the current conflicts severely affecting civilian populations are closely connected with the issue of conventional weapons, especially as regards small arms and light weapons. The Czech Republic supports the international community in its efforts to prevent the illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons and their uncontrolled proliferation. The Czech Republic very much welcomes the fact that the international community is increasingly sensitized to the observance and protection of human rights. There is a growing body of globally recognized human rights and most cases of human rights violations are strongly criticized by the democratic international community. Nevertheless, it would be too daring to assume that criticism by the international community can always mitigate the consequences of a human rights violation. However, the fact that most entities in international law lay stress on human rights is unquestionably a positive aspect. I would therefore like to take this opportunity on behalf of the Czech Republic to call for the release of all prisoners of conscience in various parts of the world, as well as to call for the observance of their fundamental human rights. In the light of recent developments, I consider it necessary to again mention the Nobel Peace Prize laureate from Myanmar, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, and the numerous Cubans who were sentenced to many years in prison in the political trials of March and April 2003. Those and similar cases only deepen the isolation of the countries concerned and do not solve the existing situations. The Czech Republic remains fully committed to the United Nations and is aware of the fact that the United Nations is a universal international organization that plays an irreplaceable role in the present globalized world. We support the Millennium Declaration as the basis for the reform of the entire United Nations system and as a further step towards the strengthening of the Organization's authority, operational capability and effective functioning. We support in particular the initiatives of the Secretary- General aimed at improving the management and administration of the United Nations. Another important task is to proceed with the revitalization of the General Assembly, including such areas as the clustering of agenda items. The reform of the Security Council represents a crucial element in the development of international relations in the new millennium. The Czech Republic shares the majority view that the composition of the Council is outdated, that it reflects the realities of the Second World War rather than those of today and that it should be adjusted to the current state of affairs. The present situation is unsustainable and undermines the legitimacy of the United Nations, and therefore calls for urgent action. The Czech Republic will continue to support inevitable reform steps, including the enlargement of the Council in both categories of membership. In particular, we support the aspirations of Germany and Japan for permanent seats, as well as the allocation of another three new permanent seats for Africa, Asia and Latin America. I would also like to take this opportunity to inform the General Assembly of the decision of the Government of the Czech Republic Government to present its candidature for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2008-2009 as our contribution to safeguarding international peace and security. I welcome the President's intention to focus the Assembly's attention on the implementation of the outcomes of the United Nations summits and conferences held during the past decade and on the United Nations development agenda, including the Millennium Declaration Goals. The Czech Republic emphasizes the importance of the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals as an overarching platform for specific actions to achieve specific goals and targets. Actions at the national, regional and international levels are necessary to fight poverty, improve access to health services and water, combat the spread of HIV/AIDS, provide education, bridge the digital divide and preserve the environment, to name only a few of our many concerns. At the same time, efforts to achieve development goals complement efforts to achieve sustainable development, including its economic, social and environmental aspects. The Czech Republic believes that a focus on multilateral and international cooperation is indispensable to the success of the United Nations development agenda. We are therefore prepared to continue to contribute to that important process. As regards the strategic document entitled the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), in which, for the first time in their history, African 14 States assumed responsibility for their further development, the Czech Republic is well aware that support for that document must be translated into action as soon as possible. An active and constructive approach should be reflected in all horizontal activities of the international community. That is why the Czech Republic regards the principle of good governance as one of NEPAD's key principles that can substantially contribute to the establishment of suitable conditions for the integration of African States into ongoing globalization processes and to the creation of a favourable climate for the continent's further development. As an acceding country to the European Union, the Czech Republic is prepared to assume its part in the implementation of the African policy that is part of the European Union's Common Foreign and Security Policy. In conclusion, let me stress that the challenge posed by security has likely been the most bitter and forceful to arise in the global community in the past two years. In that regard, we face a real test of our will and ability to cooperate, and in that connection the United Nations remains an irreplaceable forum for conflict prevention and a legal platform for the taking of multilateral steps to preserve the world's security and peace. In that respect, we very much support the Secretary-General's call for the strengthening of multilateralism, as international security cannot be fully achieved by single States or coalitions dealing with threats for the rest of the world. Humankind has not been challenged in such terms in all of its history. I am not referring solely to terrorism or nuclear threats, but also to various epidemics, poverty and the worsening environment, which are themselves the root causes of conflicts. Furthermore and we are now witnessing this in Iraq reactive military actions, both targeted and of short duration, are part of the solution, but they do not provide the whole remedy. There is an irreplaceable role for the world community to play. We, the Member States of the United Nations community, should together therefore focus our utmost attention on efficient measures to make our planet secure and prosperous for present and future generations.   ﻿It is neither pride nor the prospect of privilege that moves us to assume the Presidency of the United Nations General Assembly but a certain determination that is the unspoken strength of islands. Nor is it merely that we are honoured — though indeed we are — but that we also feel worthy, as worthy as any other member of this community and determined to make our contribution to the progress of humanity and the welfare of the world. Saint Lucia recognizes and appreciates that this Presidency became a reality only with the support of the Latin American and Caribbean family. Our preoccupation is not with size, sovereignty or power but with people, and by this measure we are not small, nor are we just an island, for we do not stand alone. We stand as one Member of this Organization, proud of the legacy and the vision that we can offer the world. We assume this role because we wish to offer that vision to the world — because it is larger than our 238 square miles and larger than our population of 159,000 people. It is a vision we wish to place at the service of humanity. It is our hope that Saint Lucia’s presidency will offer a fresh perspective, an alternative view, and a different, but not discordant, voice to the heart of the Assembly. As such, the people and the Government of Saint Lucia express both their appreciation and their determination to the members of this international community — appreciation for the faith and trust bestowed upon us with the presidency of this institution, and determination that we shall not fail it, but be judged equal to the task before us. If it is a task of Herculean proportion, then we will face it with equal confidence, certain that the rebuilding of our broken humanity is a matter which we encounter in the company of equally resolute and undaunted partners. Since the end of the cold war, the legitimacy, credibility and relevance of this time-honoured institution have never been so questioned as they are today. The United Nations Millennium Declaration was designed to revive the dying pulse of all humanity but has itself become comatose. Indeed, Secretary-General Kofi Annan was moved to state that: “It is uncertain whether the consensus and the vision that the Millennium Declaration expressed are still intact.” Saint Lucia therefore calls on the international community to heed the appeal of our Secretary-General to seek balance between the imperatives of military security and human security. In the interest of redistributive justice, global peace and security, the developed countries must not renege on their commitments to the developing world in the areas of trade, debt relief and aid. The Millennium Declaration goal of halving global poverty is receding into nothingness, but it can be rescued if developed countries make good on their pledges. Moreover, we might challenge ourselves beyond merely halving global poverty, by aspiring to its virtual elimination. By now, it should be clear to us 27 all that poverty issues are inseparable from human rights issues, as are environmental issues from economic and political development issues. National security and international stability can be realized only where there is justice. It was the prophet Isaiah who reminded us that if mankind is brought low, everyone will be humbled. Yet if we, the international community, retreat from the ideals of the creation of a greater humanity, we would also be retreating from the core values and principles enshrined within the United Nations Charter. More importantly, we would be tacitly endorsing the return and consolidation of a global uncivil society — the symptoms of which are already manifest within our global society. Religious intolerance, tribal aggression and civil war continue to ravage many parts of our planet. Among the victims are the poor, the marginalized and the vulnerable — often women and children, who play no part in the making of war but find themselves stripped of their human dignity and basic human rights. Terrorist attacks in Bali, Kenya, Saudi Arabia and Baghdad add to our symptoms of impending rupture. The arteries of conscience are becoming hardened by the frequency of wanton violence, yet on occasion there are incidents that shock our sensibilities. The murder of Sergio Vieira de Mello and other United Nations colleagues reminds us of the mindless horror at the heart of that darkness. Saint Lucia joins the international community in expressing sympathy to their families, and we reiterate our profound respect to those international workers who are so willing to make the ultimate sacrifice to extend humanitarian assistance, security and comfort to those in peril and in need. In this environment, it is essential that we maintain a United Nations which steadfastly adheres to its original core values. Saint Lucia will resist any attempt to de-legitimize the United Nations system. Any strategy which claims to embrace peace, security and justice and yet excludes the United Nations belies a flawed and unreal conception of world affairs. This Organization has been instrumental in the preservation of the nation-State within a framework of binding relationships among Governments. More importantly, the United Nations has been a devoted guardian of individual rights and freedoms. Saint Lucia maintains that the United Nations, precisely because of its diversity, is the only organization with the political and moral legitimacy to deal adequately with global issues. This universal body — this United Nations — has no other choice but to heed the lessons of the past and the wisdom of the ages in its attempt to better serve humanity. When our predecessor organization, the League of Nations, was discarded as irrelevant, we witnessed the advance of disorder and human catastrophe on a scale never before envisioned. If we stand idly by now, while this time-honoured institution is rendered irrelevant and toothless, we will have commissioned an epitaph for humanity. Saint Lucia therefore calls for the completion of the efforts at reforming the Security Council to better reflect the realities of this new century and to make it more representative — more democratic, legitimate and transparent. The existing veto system is too easily influenced by national interests to address serious issues afflicting humankind. If a coalition of the willing could be assembled for war, then surely we can also gather a coalition of the willing to address the problems of poverty, disease, illiteracy, hunger, and trade imbalances. There can be no sanitizing of one corner of the globe while contagion, despair and desperation fester elsewhere. There is no security for the one while insecurity plagues the other. But, ultimately, the strength of the United Nations must come from the political will of the Member States — a political will that must accept that everyone should adhere to, abide by, and implement all the decisions taken and resolutions adopted by the Organization. We cannot, in the name of national interest, observe only some resolutions and expect to have a strong United Nations. The United Nations cannot be strengthened if we do not have the political will to accept that its activities cannot be dictated by the agendas of a few powerful States. It must embrace, in equal measure, the concerns of the small and the weak that are the majority of its Members. No single State, by virtue of its economic or military might, should determine, on its own, the obligations and responsibilities of the rest of humanity. “Muscular unilateralism” and the emerging doctrine of diplomatic unilateralism cannot be the preferred approach to serious global issues. Exceptionalism within the international system is certain to fragment international cooperation, making it 28 less likely that countries will forgo aspects of national sovereignty in the interest of the common good. It has become abundantly clear that the international community will not succeed in its war against terrorism if it fails to address root causes. The current war on terrorism is designed to capture, confine or eliminate existing terrorist networks without addressing the causes of terrorism. Terrorism does not stem simply from the arrogance and madness of a few dictators and misguided fanatics; it is also the result of deep-seated inequity and, sometimes, bigotry. If the status quo denies opportunity, freedom and fulfilment to those who hunger and dwell in despair, the appeal of chaos and extremism as an avenue to change becomes that much more attractive. If, on the other hand, we perceive that the world order works in the interests of all of us, there will be a universal commitment to sustain that order. Consequently, it is imperative that the international community jointly address economic injustice and political exclusion as common enemies of us all. Your assumption, Sir, of the presidency of this institution at this time, as a representative of a small island developing State — one of the smallest Members of the United Nations — is both a tribute to the democratic principles of the United Nations and a signal of the need to conclude the process of revitalizing the work of the General Assembly. We must conquer delay, procrastination, repetition and inaction. Many years have passed since deliberations on the reform of the Security Council began; and yet there is no end in sight. Consultations on the revitalization of the General Assembly first began 13 years ago, and on that issue, too, there is no end in sight. For some reason, the United Nations seems to enjoy operating in decades. We create decades for our programmes, and when we fail to take action in a particular decade, we simply declare another decade. And so the cycle continues — for decades. This body can no longer afford the luxury of “decade syndrome”, compounded as it is by bureaucratic operations bound by tradition and habit. We must be extremely proactive on the question of the revitalization of the General Assembly. Saint Lucia therefore wishes to propose that during this session we review all the draft resolutions before us, and determine which need to be consigned to the record books and which merit the continued attention of the Assembly. We need to restructure the time frame, as well as the working methods, of the Assembly and its Main Committees, so as to make more productive use of an entire year, rather than engaging in a three-month frenzy of activities. Furthermore, we should consider making the agendas of the Main Committees and the Assembly more relevant to the general debate. It is our view that these should flow from the themes enunciated at the general debate. The United Nations must not compromise its role in global economic governance and development. Saint Lucia calls for Members to resist attempts to dilute the development agenda through cuts and freezes of regular and core budget allocations. Saint Lucia reiterates the need for reform of the system of global economic governance so as to allow for fair trade and special and differential treatment for developing countries. The current global governance system has failed many small States by eliminating commodity protocols and the quota and price preferences that sustain small economies. Unfortunately, they have been replaced by the conspicuous indifference of neo-liberal economic practice. This has contributed to the decimation of many Caribbean economies. It is Saint Lucia’s earnest plea that the distortions in farm trade about which — despite their prevalence — discussion is conspicuously avoided, will be treated in a manner reflective of the redistributive priorities of this Organization. We are therefore determined that a more inclusive and transparent global governance system should hold as sacred the goals and aspirations of those of us in the developing world who strive against all odds. Among the most vulnerable countries in the world today are some of the territories that are on the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories. These countries, the majority of which are small island States in the Caribbean and the Pacific, have yet to exercise the right to self-determination. In the words of the Secretary-General, it is time for the United Nations to bring to a close this colonial chapter of history. We therefore welcome the cooperation that the Special Committee of 24 on decolonization has recently been receiving from the administering Powers of those Territories and the advances that have consequently been made in the work of the Committee. 29 We further welcome the negotiations that have just begun, for the first time, between the Special Committee and the United Kingdom on the process of decolonization in the Caribbean. We look forward to continued cooperation with the administering Powers so that the goal of self-determination for all of these Territories can be achieved in less than a decade. We believe that this General Assembly presidency is both symbolic and strategic — not just for ourselves, but for this Organization and the revitalization of its development agenda. That a small developing country should aspire to and attain such high office is a testament to the magnanimity of this noble institution. It is an opportunity to demonstrate that global equity and universal democracy remain meaningful constructs of the world community. Our voice can be ignored or it can be heeded, but it will not be silenced. The choice of an appropriate response rests with this community. Our presence here, however, is a manifestation of our belief that humanity demands conscious renewal — renewal to guarantee that the international community resists war, remembers the poor and is prepared to give tangible meaning to the Charter, to which we all subscribe as responsible members of the world community. But there can be no renewal if faith in the United Nations system is not also restored and retained. The United Nations must remain as the moral epicentre of world politics. Any re-conceptualization of the architecture of global governance that excludes the United Nations will leave the world weaker, more divided, vulnerable and less secure. This cannot and should not be our legacy to future generations, who will judge us not by our words or espoused principles, but by the actions we employ to render this world fit for human habitation.  ﻿I congratulate Mr. Hunte on his election as President of this Assembly. As the Foreign Minister of St. Lucia, a member of the Latin American and Caribbean community, he can be especially assured of the full cooperation of the delegation of Chile. The events of 11 September 2001, the crisis in Iraq, the conflict in the Middle East and the attack on the United Nations in Baghdad all pose enormous challenges for the international community. Tensions 31 have arisen over the way in which we have responded to some of these crises, but opportunities have also been created for joint action in new areas. We must confront these challenges with seriousness of purpose and a collective approach. The Secretary-General has expressed his concern at the differing perceptions of the new and old threats and the urgent need to develop a programme of security aimed at building a common destiny. The United Nations will be what its Member States wish it to be. The success of the Organization will be the success of its Members and its failure will be the responsibility of none other than its Member States. The United Nations can and must play a central role in building a common destiny based on universally shared principles and values. The renewal of the United Nations is therefore an urgent task that must be approached from a lofty political and ethical perspective and not from the bureaucratic standpoint that has led to stagnation, empty rhetoric and frustration of the desire for change. According to our Charter, faith in human rights is a core value of every society and culture. It is essential for us vigorously to promote its universality. We note with concern how the progress made by mankind in promoting these values is accompanied by reversals that frustrate the sense of ethics that we wish to impart to the global community. The work of the United Nations must continue to be a guarantee for the promotion and protection of human rights and for the strengthening of a culture that guides the conscience of each individual, each people and each nation. Democracy is consistent with the purposes and principles of this Organization. In our region, we have made progress towards the inculcation of these values. The historic Santiago Commitment to Democracy of 1991 culminated in the adoption of the Inter-American Democratic Charter and has been complemented by the Declaration of Santiago on Democracy and Public Trust: A New Commitment to Good Governance for the Americas, which was adopted at the thirty-third General Assembly of the Organization of American States, held in Chile in June this year. In that instrument, we reaffirmed the vital role of multilateral cooperation in promoting democratic governance. This effort is an example of how international cooperation can help to strengthen the universal value of democracy. Chile’s commitment to democracy goes beyond our region. We and other countries are part of the Community of Democracies, an initiative aimed at promoting and strengthening this system of coexistence throughout the world. We hope to work in the United Nations in pursuit of these objectives. International peace and security continue to be key concerns of our Organization. The sacrifice of the Brazilian and Latin American Sergio Vieira de Mello, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in Baghdad, and of his colleagues reaffirms our commitment to working on behalf of peace. The United Nations must play a more substantive role in the future of Iraq. We must work to ensure the rapid restoration of sovereignty to the Iraqi people so that they can freely build their future. Chile stands ready to continue to work in the Security Council with an approach that will permit progress to be made towards the consensus that is needed to improve the conditions of security and to establish a clear timetable for political transition in that country. Security must guarantee people a life free from threats. Human security thus emerges as a distinctive feature and a prerequisite for a world without fear. We share the ideas of the Secretary-General for the elaboration of a programme of common security that will permit us to overcome the differences that have arisen in dealing with the increasing fears of our global community. Globalization has created new opportunities for the peoples of the world, but it has also created imbalances as a result of unequal access to the advantages that it offers. The equity perspective must therefore be a key component of this programme of security. Development in the globalized world can no longer be sustained only in terms of technological innovation and economic growth. Progress must be aimed at ensuring that technological development is placed at the service of integration and collective prosperity. In this spirit, we look forward to broad participation in the Global Biotechnology Forum, to be held in the Chilean city of Concepci n in March 2004, and to an outcome that will help to further strengthen international cooperation in one of the most dynamic fields of science and technology. Our political and economic multilateral institutions were created in a different historical period. We must now 32 demonstrate our capacity to adapt them to better respond to the challenges of the twenty-first century. Our main concern today must be how to overcome our immobility and embark upon a process of renewal. The method used thus far has not yielded the desired results. It is therefore necessary to explore new alternatives. We warmly welcome the initiative of the Secretary-General to establish a group of eminent personalities to elaborate a proposal for submission to the Organization. It is essential to address the weaknesses of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. We must also reflect on what new functions could be entrusted to the Trusteeship Council. We must strengthen the dialogue between these organs and extend it to other international organizations, including the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization and regional organizations. In order to go forward in this process of renewal, we must be able to utilize the full potential of the Charter, which has not been fully exploited. The Security Council has recently gone through a critical period. We have witnessed the difficulty it has had in discharging the responsibilities entrusted by the Charter to this vital organ for the maintenance of international peace and security. We are in favour of its revitalization, in order that an appropriate balance can be achieved between representativity and effectiveness. Reform must give consideration to the addition of new members, both permanent and non-permanent, and include a review of the veto. This process can be complemented by mechanisms that will allow, within the framework of the Charter, more active participation by countries that are not members of the Council. It is also necessary more effectively to involve the principal organs in the consideration of issues affecting international peace and security. This must be done in a coordinated manner through the effective application of the Charter, as provided for in Article 15 thereof. It is necessary, too, more actively to involve regional organizations and arrangements in efforts to maintain peace and security by applying Chapter VIII of the Charter. The region of the Americas has an institutional structure and various coordination mechanisms that can be used to contribute to the fulfilment of the purposes of the United Nations. The experience of the Organization of American States is pertinent in this regard. The General Assembly must undertake a process of revitalization in order to be able to play its role effectively as the principal deliberative, normative and representative organ of the United Nations. The Assembly has a multiplicity of items on its agenda and has adopted many resolutions, most of which remain unimplemented, thereby affecting the effectiveness and credibility of the system as a whole. We must have the political will to implement our decisions. In short, we must strengthen the capacity of the Assembly to assume political leadership. We must also promote the establishment of regional agendas that facilitate agreements and global consensus. The United Nations must play a key role in the promotion of equitable development by increasing the Organization’s capacity to influence the design and implementation of national and international public policies in the economic and social spheres. The process of revitalization of the Economic and Social Council must be aimed at repositioning that organ. This will require the streamlining of its agenda, methods of work and membership, and the strengthening of its relationship with the Security Council, as provided for in Article 65 of the Charter, through its assumption of a role in the prevention and containment of threats originating in social problems. We must seek to ensure that the search for consensus does not prevent this forum from reaching the necessary substantive agreements required for the achievement of the purposes and principles of the United Nations. Chile, from the southern part of the world, will continue to shoulder its responsibility to make a contribution to the international community. The United Nations is a unique and indispensable forum for building a world of peace and development for all. Its core values must inspire efforts for a renewal that will permit the Organization, in the building of our common destiny, to rise to the challenges of the century upon which we have just embarked. ﻿Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. That is a significant tribute to you and to Saint Lucia. Estonia, like Saint Lucia, is a small State, and together we can admit that the United Nations is an Organization that allows small States to participate on equal footing with large ones in influencing global processes. I also commend your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his accomplishments in presiding over the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. I am particularly pleased to do so in the light of the similar histories of Estonia and the Czech Republic and of our common endeavours to join the family of democratic nations, the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance. The fifty-eighth regular session is the first since the outbreak of the war in Iraq. This year has been a difficult one, both for the United Nations and for the entire world. Long and emotional debates in the Security Council preceded the Iraq crisis. Many think that the war, rising tensions among States and the country’s post-war reconstruction have tested the Organization’s capabilities, its credibility and its role in the world. I should like to believe, not that the past year has undermined the Organization’s morale, but the contrary. Those ordeals and the Iraq war have served as a lesson and have deepened our conviction that the United Nations should be even more decisive and efficient in the future than it is today. Unfortunately, the crisis in Iraq has affected more than the morale of the United Nations. Although the Organization has been the target of terrorist attacks before — such an attack was planned against United Nations Headquarters many years ago — the terrorist bombings of the United Nations headquarters in Iraq a couple of days ago and on 19 August — which claimed more than 20 lives — were unprecedented. Terrorism and violence never choose their victims and it is significant that the United Nations, as an Organization for global peace and stability uniting all States of the world, was targeted. I would like to emphasize that Estonia has resolutely condemned the terrorist attack on the United Nations mission in Baghdad. Together with all representatives here, the people of Estonia and I are in deep morning over the tragic murder of Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary- General, and others. I deeply sympathize with their relatives and colleagues. A terrorist act against people who are committed to assisting the people of Iraq is a painful blow to the United Nations and a crime against the people of Iraq and the international community. However, it cannot serve as an impetus for the United Nations to withdraw from hot spots. Estonia welcomes the statement made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan that, despite the attacks, the United Nations will continue its activity in Iraq. Terrorists should not determine the future of Iraq 8 or make the people of that country and the international community withdraw from the goal of building up a sovereign, democratic and prosperous Iraq. Recent events have even more clearly demonstrated the need for the presence of stabilization forces in Iraq. In order to enforce peace and stability in the Persian Gulf region, enhanced cooperation between coalition forces, the United Nations and the international community is necessary. Despite its small size and moderate resources, Estonia is also actively involved. In May 2003, the Estonian Parliament approved the deployment of a unit of the Estonian Defence Forces to peace enforcement operations in Iraq and Estonian servicemen joined the mission in the Persian Gulf region in June. Estonia has acceded to all 12 United Nations anti-terrorist conventions and is actively cooperating with many States and international organizations. Now I will proceed to a central topic of my address — the environment and sustainable development. I consider a sustainable approach to the environment and sustainable development to be one of the most significant commitments, both for the United Nations and for States. In the long term, the welfare and conditions of peoples will depend primarily on our ability or will to use wisely and sparingly the limited resources of our planet and to shape the environment we live in. With respect to the ever-growing population of the world, increased production and consumption, as well as the resulting pollution, the pressure of human activity on our living environment is continuously building. In the circumstances, environmental protection and ensuring the welfare of mankind and wildlife are becoming an ever-more important and difficult task. It is not by chance that the United Nations proclaimed the year 2003 as the International Year of Fresh Water and that the year 2002 focused on eco-tourism and mountain regions. Twenty years ago, the General Assembly adopted a resolution establishing the World Commission on Environment and Development to define global problems and to find ways of solving them. Gro Harlem Brundtland headed the Commission. The report entitled Our Common Future, completed in 1987, defined sustainable development. The main message of the report was that economic growth and increased welfare of the people should not compromise the ability of future generations and the environment to meet their own needs. Global economic development should take into consideration the tolerance thresholds of the environment and the need to preserve natural resources. Sustainable development, as a cohesive development of the socio-economic field and the environment, has become a priority of most democracies throughout the world, especially after the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. As the head of the Estonian delegation to the Conference, I signed Agenda 21 and the Framework Conventions on Climate Change and Biological Diversity. Eleven years have passed since the Rio de Janeiro Conference. Considering developments since then, we see that some progress in global environmental cooperation among States has taken place. New goals were set and interim conclusions made at the special session of the General Assembly in New York in 1997 and at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in 2002. The General Assembly session in 2000 agreed on the Millennium Declaration, with the main goal set as environmental sustainability. However, we must note that the world’s population has grown by 1 billion since the Rio de Janeiro Conference in 1992. In the 1990s, the world gross domestic product grew by an average of 2.6 per cent a year. No doubt, sooner or later these processes are going to influence the living environment of us all. Although we cannot as yet define the actual relationship between human activity and the climate of our planet, a glimpse into the climate changes of the last decade is worrying. Natural phenomena like El Niño and La Niña have had a lasting impact on human life. Floods, droughts, tornadoes and extreme fluctuations of temperature have become nearly daily realities on our planet. European States have not remained untouched by the climate changes. In 1997, floods devastated Eastern Europe; last summer, Western and Central Europe were hit by a heat wave. These facts should convince us that environmental protection is a matter of common concern for all mankind. Cooperation readiness is extremely important and Estonia has done its best to collaborate. We have acceded to all essential environmental conventions and wish all other States in the world to do the same. Estonia ratified the Framework Convention on Climate Change on 27 July 1994 and acceded to the Kyoto 9 Protocol on 17 November 1998. In unison with the European Union, Estonia expresses its clear determination to enforce the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible. Estonia is a small State with moderate resources, playing a small role in the world economy and the environment. Nevertheless, we adhere to the principle, “act local, think global”. Environmental protection is extremely important. Estonia has a long tradition of nature conservation. As early as in 1297, King Erik Menved of Denmark banned cutting forests on several Estonian islands. In 1995, four years after regaining independence, Estonia adopted its Sustainable Development Act. In 2001, at the recommendation of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the Government of Estonia approved a strategy of sustainable development — Sustainable Estonia 21. More than in any other field, inter-State cooperation is important in environmental protection, and regional organizations play a substantial role in this regard. The Baltic Sea States have displayed remarkable initiative, which other regions of the world would find worth following. The Baltic Sea regional sustainable development process was launched in 1996. It is unique in the world — an Agenda 21 for the Baltic Sea States — Baltic 21. The parties to the process include all Baltic Sea States and the European Commission. The process targets the elaboration and the implementation of sustainable development visions and an action plan for the entire region and key sectors. The Baltic Sea joins the members of the Council of the Baltic Sea States (CBSS). It is especially appropriate to speak about the protection of the Baltic Sea in the International Year of Fresh Water. Currently, Estonia holds the CBSS presidency, and the protection of the environment, first and foremost of the Baltic Sea, is among the top priorities of the presidency. During our presidency, we would like to focus on new hazards arising from the intensifying marine traffic on the Baltic Sea. Estonia is targeting its efforts towards achieving an agreement between member States to reduce the oil-tanker-pollution hazard to a minimum. Estonia supports the initiative of the European Union to ban the traffic of single-hull tankers on the Baltic Sea, and is committed to having the Baltic Sea classified as a Particularly Sensitive Sea Area (PSSA). I would like to conclude by stressing that, although I have touched only upon terrorism and the environment, Estonia fully shares all the priorities of the European Union (EU) at the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, particularly, the non- proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, peacekeeping, the protection of human rights and combating the HIV/AIDS pandemic. The future of the United Nations is also important for Estonia. The United Nations needs to be improved and restructured. Estonia has favoured the overall strengthening of our common Organization and welcomes the efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan to revitalize the United Nations, primarily the General Assembly. In our opinion, reform of the Security Council should enable the United Nations to participate more efficiently in problem-solving and crisis resolution throughout the world. The Secretary-General’s recent report on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration is a significant and important document that deserves detailed analysis and serious consideration. Isn’t it time for the United Nations family to support the Secretary- General in his concern about the Organization now and about its future? Let us agree — both the large and the small Member States — upon what we would like to accomplish and when, and let us move steadily ahead. Only a strong United Nations, with efficient decision- making mechanisms, can ensure global welfare and balance. Let that be a goal for us. ﻿Niger is gratified by your election, Sir, to preside over this session and through me assures you of its full support as you carry out the important mission that has been entrusted to you. We wish you every success. I also wish to address to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic, my sincere congratulations on the skill, dedication and foresight with which he guided the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I should further like to reiterate Niger’s great appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the wisdom and efficiency with which he has guided our Organization in a particularly difficult international context. On 19 August, sadly, international terrorism struck yet another symbol: United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. The attack claimed many lives, including that of the Special Representative of the Secretary- General, Sergio Vieira de Mello. Niger reiterates its unequivocal condemnation of that barbaric act and reviles all terrorist acts committed anywhere in the world. The Government of Niger welcomes our Organization’s determination to provide all necessary assistance to the Iraqi people, despite all the intimidation to which it has been subject. Such determination, however, can achieve results only if the United Nations is given a key role in managing the process of rebuilding a free and democratic Iraq that is the master of its own destiny. The maintenance of international peace and security must remain a priority objective of the United Nations. In this respect, in addition to our ongoing war against international terrorism, we must pursue our efforts to free the world from the specter of weapons of mass destruction and the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. In that connection, the First Biennial Meeting of States to Consider the Implementation of the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects at the National, Regional and Global Levels noted that, despite progress made since the adoption of the Programme of Action, control of firearms and their use remains limited. That is why Niger firmly supports the elaboration of binding legal instruments on the marking, tracking and sale of such weapons. For Niger, the regional approach must be given pride of place in the settlement of conflicts, since it is 2 increasingly recognized that most conflicts in Africa have a subregional dimension. That is the case in particular in West Africa, where stability in the Mano River region is linked to the situation in Liberia. It is also the case in Central Africa, where stability in the Great Lakes region is linked to the situations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Burundi. That is why the Government of Niger feels that the strengthening of regional peacekeeping and security capacities, the cornerstone of the collective security system, must be based on enhanced cooperation between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations. With regard to the Jammu and Kashmir conflict, Niger believes that, despite the recent incidents, the improved relations between India and Pakistan, which opened diplomatic relations in August, provide an unprecedented opportunity that must be seized to achieve a political settlement through the organization of a referendum on the self-determination of the Kashmiri people, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. In the Middle East, the vision of a sovereign and viable Palestinian State, peacefully coexisting with Israel, must become a reality. In this regard, it is more urgent than ever before for the two parties to the conflict to agree to a ceasefire, comprehensive adherence to which would help relaunch the road map, which is showing signs of withering. Moreover, the eventful history of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process — a history marked by recurrent setbacks and dashed hope — requires us to acknowledge that only the presence of an international interposition force can guarantee an end to the bloody violence and create conditions for the effective implementation of agreements. Thus, Niger makes a heartfelt appeal to the United Nations, the Security Council in particular, to ensure that this question be reconsidered with all due attention and in full responsibility in the interest of world peace. Niger is deeply dedicated to the noble ideals of the Charter and therefore strives for regional and global peace and is actively participating in efforts to achieve general and complete disarmament. In that context, my country has always subscribed to the standards of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in order to achieve full transparency in the production, sale and delivery of uranium. That position is reflected in our decade-long cooperation with all actors in the uranium sector. We allow for no ambiguity. Niger continues to be ready, as it has always been, to submit to the authority of the IAEA for any verification related to the production and sale of its uranium. I wish to recall that, in this sphere, my country, in accordance with article III of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, has accepted, in agreement with the IAEA, the monitoring and guarantee system which, when implemented in good faith as it is in Niger, offers absolutely no opportunity for the kind of clandestine transactions of which my country was so unjustly accused. The Development Goals defined in the historic Millennium Declaration must remain an ongoing concern of the international community and guide global action aimed at the establishment of a stable and just socio-economic order involving greater sharing and solidarity. We cannot overemphasize the fact that the achievement of these Goals requires reflection in specific action of all commitments undertaken at the major international conferences and summits. What in fact have we been seeing? The international scene continues to offer the paradoxical and somewhat ignominious image of a world of enormous wealth in which the overwhelming majority of inhabitants still lives in total destitution. Despite the commitments made and the consensus reached by Governments of the entire world on this issue, we are obliged to note that the terrible vise of poverty, ignorance and disease has only been tightened around the poor peoples of the third world in general and of Africa in particular. When we know, for example, that, six years after the World Food Summit, 815 million people throughout the world continue to suffer from hunger and 150 million children suffer from malnutrition deficiencies, we can readily gauge the feeble support of donors for anti-poverty strategies, despite the lofty statements of intention that are occasionally mouthed. Today more than ever, the situation should pull at the conscience of the international community and inspire us to greater solidarity and determination to fulfil our commitments. It is time to understand once and for all that the reduction of poverty is more than a moral imperative; it is in fact a secure investment in the promotion of a world of peace, prosperity and social progress. 3 It is encouraging to note that, in recent years, Africa has been at the core of major international conferences. From the Brussels Conference on the Least Developed Countries to the Johannesburg Summit, as well as the Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development, the World Economic Forum, the Evian G-8 summit and the World Trade Organization (WTO) Conference in Cancún, to name but a few, Africa has been at the heart of the debates. It should be noted that, while these meetings had the merit of having been convened, unfortunately they did not respond to the urgent and enormous expectations of the continent. In this regard, there is a need to ensure consistency in global economic governance through the strengthening of cooperation among the international organizations and of the compatibility of their decisions. It is only thus that the excessive marginalization of Africa can be alleviated, because this is the appropriate way to bring the promises of increased official development assistance to fruition. Similarly, it is important to increase the flow of direct foreign investment into Africa. Furthermore, given the limited results achieved by current debt-alleviation programmes — the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative in particular — we must now recognize that the ultimate solution lies in the outright cancellation of the debt, the servicing of which is consuming the greater part of the budgets of African countries and fuelling capital flight. There is also a need for Africa’s trade partners fully to comply with their commitments, in particular by improving the access of African products to their markets and by eliminating agricultural subsidies that create distortions in world trade. The failure of the WTO Conference in Cancún is a good illustration of the obstinate reluctance of the rich countries to take into account the legitimate aspirations of the poor countries regarding the establishment of just and equitable standards to govern world trade. And yet, solving the critical problem of agricultural subsidies and of access to markets would have made it possible both to enhance the badly tarnished credibility of the WTO and to provide a measure of consistency to the declarations of intention made by the countries of the North. Above all and unquestionably, it would have contributed to raising millions of people out of poverty. This lack of agreement means that the cotton workers of West Africa, among others, can no longer live from their labour and may be excluded from international trade, to the benefit of more competitive producers who are being subsidized. Cancún was a failed rendezvous of the Doha Round. WTO will certainly have to adopt a new approach and prioritize the settlement of agricultural problems, which most agree are more important than the interests of the multinationals. The countries of Africa are fully aware of the need to develop their relationship with their development partners within the context of interdependence, cooperation and mutual responsibility. In that regard, they acknowledge the importance of judicious national policies and good governance, which they consider to be indispensable to accelerated development and, above all, to achieving the 7 per cent growth rate required to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. The New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) is inspired by this consensual approach, based on a new relationship of cooperation between Africa and the developed world. NEPAD, a symbol of Africa’s resolve to take its own destiny in hand, is the foundation on which the African Union will rely to promote the growth and sustainable development of African countries, individually and collectively. While we call for a massive flow of investments and the growth of official development assistance to contribute to our development efforts, we, too, must comply with our commitments in terms of mutual responsibility. That is why my country, Niger, firmly supports the implementation of the NEPAD Peer Review Mechanism. The Mechanism will play a key role in the continent’s prospects as an instrument for building strong States dedicated to good governance and sustainable development. In drawing up through a participatory approach a national strategy for poverty reduction, the Government of Niger intends to become deeply involved in the dynamic process of establishing strong, stable and competitive economies in accordance with the objectives of the NEPAD Programme of Action. The strategy document serves simultaneously as a reference framework for poverty reduction policies and programmes and as an instrument to mobilize financial resources. We are convinced that the implementation of the poverty-reduction strategy will contribute to 4 improving the dialogue of policies, to further strengthening donor coordination and intervention, and to developing a multidimensional strategic partnership to translate into action the deepest hopes of the people of Niger. From this rostrum, I solemnly reaffirm the deep gratitude of the Government of Niger to those international partners which, at the poverty-reduction forum held last June in Niamey, proved their full adherence to the strategy and their commitment to supporting its implementation. In recent years, the world has undergone rapid and profound changes. These require us to adapt our Organization’s functions to today’s reality in order to better to take into account the new challenges and legitimate aspirations of the peoples of the planet and not the specific interests of a tiny group of countries, no matter how powerful. That is why Niger firmly supports the courageous reforms proposed by the Secretary-General to strengthen and improve the functioning of the Organization and to allow it effectively to cope with the challenges of our times. The long-awaited democratization of the Security Council must be accompanied by a strengthening of the role of the General Assembly, the highest representative body, and of the Economic and Social Council, the guarantor of the advent of a new economic and social order. The United Nations is at a decisive juncture and must urgently regain the confidence of States and of world public opinion, which has been sorely tested by recent events. It is up to all of us to strive resolutely to that end, because, as the Secretary-General has said, we are the United Nations.  ﻿My delegation associates itself with the compliments expressed to Mr. Julian Hunte on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session; to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan of the Czech Republic; and to the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan. As we converge upon this city of New York, we are once again reminded of the stark reality of the scourge of terrorism, whose effects have reverberated across the world. Earlier this month two years ago, in this very city, humanity suffered the worst threat ever visited on it by terrorism. We continue to share the grief of those who will forever miss the love and the support of their loved ones. We must therefore reaffirm our resolve to join together in partnership to eliminate those elements which threaten to destroy humanity and its way of life. Our best hope for success is and should be our collective strength. We owe it to ourselves and to future generations of humankind to pool our resources and strategies to annihilate the scourge of terrorism. In doing so, we must simultaneously and genuinely examine and begin to understand what forces and factors drive an inherently good human being to commit such desperate actions and drastic acts of violence, in the process committing them not only against others, but against himself. Our preventive measures must address such forces and factors in order to disarm potential terrorists. The progress report on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals in Lesotho documents that the single greatest obstacle to the development of our nation and indeed to reaching the objectives laid out in the Goals is the scourge of HIV/AIDS. In our part of the world, Southern Africa, Governments are overwhelmed by high levels of morbidity and mortality, especially among the working-age group in all sectors, including health and agriculture. HIV/AIDS has become the leading cause of the food insecurity and famine that plague so many of our people today. We are also frustrated because our efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goal of education for all by 2015 through the introduction of free primary education is faltering due to the high rate of absenteeism by both teachers and pupils. Teachers are sick and dying. Children especially girls are dropping out of school to take care of their sick relatives. The number of malnourished, traumatized, orphaned and out-of-school children is increasing at an alarming rate. We therefore stress the need for urgent assistance to Lesotho and the southern African region and increased supplies of the anti-retroviral and other related HIV and AIDS drugs, in order to curb the scourge. Lesotho and the region also need financial and technical resources for training and capacity-building in HIV and AIDS programme implementation and management. Lesotho is concerned that the goal of poverty eradication, which is the first Millennium Development Goal and one of the cross-cutting themes of all major United Nations conferences and summits, could elude the international community. Indeed, this critical state of affairs is highlighted in the Economic Report on Africa, 2003, which indicates that in 2002, of the 53 countries in Africa, only five achieved the 7 per cent growth rate required to meet the Millennium Development Goals, while 43 countries registered growth rates below 7 per cent and five countries registered negative growth rates. Against the backdrop of a democratizing continent a precondition set for assistance by the developed North there is a growing consensus that the decline in official development assistance and other financial flows to Africa is increasing the 19 marginalization of the continent in the global economy. Without new inflows of external resources, the pace of development in Africa will forever remain elusive. My delegation therefore wishes to reiterate its appeal to the developed countries to fulfil the commitments made at all the major United Nations conferences, as well as at the Millennium Summit. Furthermore, we wish to stress the need for a review of the list of heavily indebted poor countries and those on the borderline, so that all poor countries that, like Lesotho, face debt servicing difficulties, can be considered under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative. My delegation also shares the view that debt cancellation for the least developed countries should be considered as a viable option so that such countries can inject that money into their economies. My delegation reiterates the call for increased support to the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). We are aware that Iraq today dominates the world spotlight, as was confirmed in recent testimony before the Congress of the United States of America, which was asked to approve $87 billion for the rehabilitation of that country. In sharp contrast, an injection of only about $6 billion into NEPAD would go a long way towards achieving what is a continentwide agenda. African leaders need extensive support as they address, inter alia, the root causes of the agricultural crises in the continent. For us in Africa, agriculture is the engine of overall growth, as it is at the very core of people's livelihoods, especially in the rural areas. It is linked to issues of food security and affects growth in other economic sectors. Lesotho is deeply concerned that armed conflicts continue to hinder economic growth in Africa and elsewhere. We have also been shocked by several reports of an extreme lack of respect for the basic principles of international humanitarian law on the part of parties to armed conflict. Equally regrettable are incidents of egregious violations of the rights of women and children. We therefore commend the United Nations for all its efforts aimed at the elimination of human suffering in armed conflict. Indeed, the establishment of the International Criminal Tribunals, the birth of the International Criminal Court and the setting up of the Special Court for Sierra Leone, are cause for considerable optimism and prove beyond any doubt that the world has grown weary of impunity. It is our fervent hope that Member States will continue to provide the necessary support and cooperation to those institutions. Africa hungers for peace. The continent must never again have to witness acts of violence and atrocities such as those that were recently committed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Liberia. We hope that the international community will continue to support all endeavours aimed at attaining lasting peace, security and stability in those countries. My delegation is encouraged by the progress to date to restore law and order in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including the establishment of an all-inclusive transitional Government of National Unity. The international community must intensify its efforts to assist millions of Congolese people who are not only displaced but also facing serious food shortages. My delegation is confident that, with the necessary support, the Government of National Unity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo will restore peace and security in the country and heal the deep wounds caused by war and ethnic hatred. We are also gratified that the Security Council has mandated a special Panel to investigate the plunder of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is our hope and wish that those responsible will be brought to book. The people of Angola have peace at last, now that one of Africa's longest-running fratricidal wars has come to an end. The scars of war in Angola will remain forever, deeply embedded in the memories of the most vulnerable of the population the women and children of that country, where motherhood was abused and children were deprived of their childhood. Reintegration and rehabilitation assistance to Angola, therefore, should, in the main, target those groups. The future of Somalia continues to hang in the balance, despite the efforts by Kenya, the Inter- Governmental Authority on Development, the African Union and all other stakeholders to put an end to the carnage in that country. Somalia has been turned into a breeding ground for warlords who have no respect for human life but are greedy for power and money. We tend to agree with those who argue that the deployment of an international force would help to facilitate the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration process. 20 At the end of the day, however, the responsibility for bringing peace and reconciliation to Somalia lies with the Somalis themselves. Although there have been positive indicators in the search for a peaceful and acceptable solution to the conflict between Israel and Palestine, we are concerned that the recent resumption of the cycle of violence will render the road map for peace futile. The drastic and repressive measures, the unilateral erection of a wall dividing the two, the reoccupation of Palestinian towns and villages, and the targeting of Hamas leaders with the aim of killing them are all measures which cannot help the course of peace or ensure that the Palestinian people enjoy their inalienable rights, including the right to self-determination in a sovereign and independent State. In like manner, the continuing suicide missions by militant groups to kill Israelis indiscriminately cannot, and must not, be condoned or justified. But then two stark realities must be addressed: first, that the root cause of the problem is the illegal occupation of Palestinian lands; and secondly, that no one country can be an honest broker in the Middle East. History itself positions some countries so much with one party to the conflict that they cannot even with the best of intentions be non-partisan. Consequently, my delegation strongly urges the United Nations to take the initiative and to lead the process, and thus to lend legitimacy and credibility to the efforts to find an abiding solution. The same goes for the people of Western Sahara. In the civilized world of the twenty-first century, it is simply untenable that we still have colonizers in some parts of the world, in disregard of the widely accepted principles of self-determination and democracy. The international community must intervene so as to bring finality to the status of the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic. The brotherly people of Sahara have suffered unduly and long enough. On a positive note, we welcome the lifting of sanctions against Libya by the Security Council. Nevertheless, it is our contention that the lifting of the sanctions would have been more significant if all the members of the Security Council had raised their flags in favour. By the same token, it is now time to collectively address all issues relating to the unilateral economic blockade against Cuba. It is simply untenable for the United Nations to look on helplessly when a Member State strangles another Member State of this body, simply because it holds or practices different economic philosophies or political viewpoints. Those truths must be confronted and discussed in honesty and without malice towards anyone. Otherwise, our credibility and our raison d''tre are called into question. In conclusion, I wish to refer to the question of the reform of the Security Council. It is now a trite fact that the credibility of the United Nations including its adherence to multilateralism is being openly questioned. It will take a lot of work to change that perception on the part of many, especially in the developing world. The Secretary-General, Mr. Annan, has on several occasions stressed the need for radical reform to restore United Nations credibility. We therefore applaud the statement that he made before this body yesterday that he intends to establish a high- level panel of eminent persons to look into the challenges to peace, security and other global issues. It is our hope that the recommendations of that panel will pave the way to a better international order. It has been almost 10 years since the establishment of an open-ended working group to study all questions relating to equitable representation in the Security Council, including increasing the membership of the Council. My delegation is of the view that there is an urgent need to accelerate the pace and to redouble our efforts to bring this matter to a conclusion. Let us face it: the very concept and practice of a veto in the Security Council is simply untenable and is totally at variance with the democratic principles of our modern times. For one member with a veto to overrule 14 others is simply undemocratic. It is patently unjust and contrary to every principle underpinning fair play and world order. My delegation cannot in all honesty and without malice to anyone understand how and why leading champions of democracy can cling so desperately to such an outmoded, primitive and unjust system. The same sacred convictions, truths and beliefs that guided and forced our forbears to abolish slavery, to declare racism and genocide crimes against humanity and to preach and uphold the equality of all humans must of necessity guide us in this instance. Otherwise, history will judge and chastise us severely but justifiably as dishonest. Such is the naked truth staring us in the face. ﻿I am greatly honoured to address this distinguished gathering of the world's leaders at the United Nations, a truly unique global organization that is deeply engaged in the promotion of human values and international peace and stability. I would like to thank Mr. Jan Kavan for his important contribution in the past year as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session and to congratulate Mr. Julian Robert Hunte on his election to the post of President of the General Assembly at the fifty-eighth session. I wish him every success in executing that function of great responsibility. On behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Macedonia, I would like to pay special tribute to the United Nations and Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who delivered an indeed inspiring speech yesterday, for their relentless dedication and efforts in pursuing the righteous causes of protecting human rights and freedoms and safeguarding prosperity and security in the world. We certainly remember a great person, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, who paid the highest price for pursuing the noble role of the United Nations in Iraq. We fully support the goals of the international community in Iraq: the achievement of a free and sovereign Iraq governed by the people of Iraq for the people of Iraq. However, that sovereignty must be based on democracy, freedom and peaceful existence with its neighbours. To achieve those goals as quickly as possible, the United Nations must play a more comprehensive and active role in the transition back to Iraqi sovereignty. I would also like to take this occasion to express our satisfaction with the work carried out by the coalition forces in helping the Iraqi people to rebuild their country after the decades of disasters of Saddam Hussein's despotic regime. Reforming the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, and revitalizing the General Assembly are of crucial importance to us all. My Government firmly believes in the need to pursue those goals in a consistent and more efficient way. The Republic of Macedonia strongly believes the United Nations involvement in various parts of the world will essentially improve the responses of democratically oriented Governments and reform- minded people and will add to the overall level of legitimacy of their actions. It is obvious that we need to offer more vocal support to multilateralism when dealing with the substantial issues on the international agenda to which we are fully committed: the eradication of poverty, the fight against the scourge of HIV/AIDS around the world, conflict prevention and the protection of the environment, among others. The World Summit on the Information Society, to be held in Geneva this year and in Tunis 2005, along with two other summits held last year on financing for development in Monterrey, Mexico, and sustainable development in Johannesburg, can be regarded, in the context of globalization and the overall development process, as landmarks of a new approach in dealing with the challenges of today's world. Within the aforementioned framework, it is essential fully to implement the Millennium Declaration as a key document for peace, security, sustainable development and prosperity. The most serious contemporary threat to humanity is identified and visible. It is the evil of terrorism. The fight against terrorism has been and must remain our highest priority. In this regard, it would be immensely helpful to make a commitment to reaching a consensus in relation to the remaining 7 disputed points in the process of drafting conventions on international and nuclear terrorism. Facing the challenge of the year 2001, we found a way out by signing the Framework Agreement that brought vital democratic processes back to our institutions and re-established and reaffirmed democratic procedures for addressing internal problems of any kind. Today, I am very proud to say that I come here in the same mood I was in three years ago when I took part in the Millennium Summit full of optimism and truly convinced that, after the hard work had been done, strategic issues of our future had been solved, once and for all, upon a broad political, social and interethnic consensus. Progress towards a real and authentic integration of all ethnic communities in the State structures is significant and has roots in our centuries-old model and tradition of multiculturalism and inter-ethnic coexistence. In order to contribute in a constructive way to creating a more positive picture of the region and productive cooperation among nations, the Republic of Macedonia launched numerous regional initiatives in the context of integration into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. In parallel, while pursuing very ambitious reform agendas, we achieved an internal consensus about our foreign policy priorities and realized that we will most successfully leave behind the poor legacies of our unfortunate past by promoting new substantial links among the people who live in South-East Europe. A month ago in Ohrid, we held a very successful regional forum on dialogue among civilizations, attended by numerous heads of State, other leaders and scholars from all over the world, who spoke very openly about the importance of having cultural interchange as a permanent basis for the promotion of continuous dialogue and cohabitation among peoples and States. In the message adopted at the forum, all participants agreed that a thorough and continuous commitment would be needed by all to genuinely transform our region and to defuse once and for all this powder keg of Europe. The Republic of Macedonia has built solid cooperation with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and developed a network of activities aimed at easing communications and at liberalizing the movement of people from both sides of the border. The Republic of Macedonia welcomes the appointment of Harri Holkeri as the new Special Representative of the Secretary- General and gives him its full support. We are fully supportive of the implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) and the political position declared by UNMIK calling for the fulfilment of the standards of democracy and the application of the rule of law before the onset of negotiations over the final status of Kosovo. We express our deep concern over the recent upsurge of inter-ethnic violence in Kosovo, which only undermines the efforts of the international community and the Kosovar people to fulfil the set standards. In the Balkans, we are seeing collaboration and mutual respect emerging even between yesterday's enemies and opposing factions. We are witnessing the gradual but steady reconciliation of the nations. Last but not least, important regional initiatives for free trade, trade facilitation and building infrastructure are connecting businesses and binding people in a productive way, which helps to raise awareness of our common future. My country, the Republic of Macedonia, is an indivisible part of these joint regional efforts to transform our part of the continent into a decent place to live in. To that end, we will need the understanding and concrete support of the rest of the world community, which should not neglect the call of progressive people to join efforts to secure liberty. We believe that the greatness of countries is dependent not upon the size of their armies and the number of weapons they possess, but upon the commitment and dedication of their citizens to the noble ideas of humanity and the legacy of our civilization. In this tremendous task of preserving our common treasury and of creating a better world for the generations to come, we are more than willing to participate, because we are all equal to each other, while contributing to the common aim. We are deeply concerned about the escalation of violence in the Middle East. The parties need to recommit themselves to the road map process, because it is the only alternative that can bring security and stability to Israelis and Palestinians alike. The international community must step up its activities at this extremely difficult juncture, ensuring that it remains on the path of ending terrorism and occupation and of establishing the State of Palestine, living side by side with the State of Israel in peace and security. 8 On disarmament matters, bearing in mind our immediate concerns over the problem of small arms and light weapons, the Republic of Macedonia has been an advocate of strong international action towards preventing, combating and eradicating the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, since these pose a serious threat not only to the security and stability of my country, but also to the broader region. We welcome the conclusion of the First Biennial Meeting of States to Consider the Implementation of the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects, held in July 2003, that progress had been made worldwide within barely two years of the adoption of the Programme of Action. For the African countries, the main priority at this moment is the fight against HIV/AIDS, a pandemic that is taking a devastating toll on the African population. The international community must work hand in hand with the African Governments to defeat this deadly disease. Africa must also work very hard to achieve the strategic goals of the New Partnership for Africa's Development in the areas of peace and security, democracy, good governance, poverty reduction and sound economic management. I sincerely believe that we will find a common language with regard to the issue of how to strengthen our Organization and maintain its mission of peace, prosperity, economic and social justice and human rights.  ﻿Before addressing the pressing issues before the international community and expressing our position on the issues that have been discussed here, I would like to begin by referring to the concrete example of my own country. On 6 January 2003, the people and Government of El Salvador received an official communication from the Secretary-General informing us of the completion of the verification function of the United Nations vis-à-vis the Peace Agreement that ended 13 years of war in our country. Eleven years have elapsed since that historic Peace Agreement put an end to an armed conflict that had been destroying our country for over a decade. Before the war we were a poor country. Sixty-per cent of our fellow citizens lived under the poverty line. Our country has also been dealt a harsh blow by nature. Every generation of Salvadorans has had to rebuild their lives due to the fact that, throughout our history, there has never been a twenty-five-year period without the occurrence of a natural disaster of enormous proportions. We are also an overpopulated country, with over 6 million inhabitants sharing 21,000 square kilometres. That makes us one of the most densely populated countries of the American continent. Being completely dependant on agriculture, fluctuations in the prices of coffee and sugar have always determined our prospects for development. A little over a decade ago we stood no chance of meeting our financial commitments. Our debts far exceeded our ability to pay. Poor, small, overpopulated, indebted, dependent upon agriculture, afflicted by natural disasters and immersed in a widespread armed conflict, El Salvador appeared not to have a future barely 12 years ago. Violence, coupled with the harsh realities of underdevelopment, appeared to have doomed us to a vicious circle devoid of hope. We are a different country today. We view the future with confidence, for we have discovered our capacities. In just 12 years we have reduced poverty by half, from 60 per cent of our population, in 1991, to 33 per cent today. Over 30 per cent of our population had been living in extreme poverty. Today only half as many, 15 per cent, live in that distressing situation. Our efforts have had a direct impact on the standard of living of all of our citizens. Twelve years ago 25 per cent of Salvadorans did not know how to read or write. That figure is only 13 per cent today. The child mortality rate, which had been at 45 per thousand births, stands at 25 per thousand today. We have accomplished all that by dedicating ourselves to the most pressing needs of our people. In order to connect our most isolated towns, we have built one kilometre of road every day for the last four years. We have also built three schools every day in the same period, so as to educate our poorest children. Similarly, 11 we have built 106 houses every day for low-income families. And every five days we have built a new health centre. Having once been completely dependent on agriculture, today we rank number 3, out of 24 Latin American countries, in terms of export growth. During the difficult decade of the 1990s we managed to grow at a much faster rate than our region at large. We have now become the second-ranking country in Latin America in economic growth. Despite the immense burden posed by reconstruction after the earthquakes of 2001, year after year we have reduced our budget deficit, bringing it to under 1 per cent in 2004. This has allowed us to control inflation, lowering it from 30 per cent to 2 per cent this year, and thus to avoid a decline in family income. We have zero risk of devaluation and today, after having seen interest rates of 30 per cent, we have the lowest bank interest rates of our region — 6.8 per cent. For 11 years now, we have had no fluctuation in exchange rates, allowing us to acquire a rate of investment that is matched in Latin America only by Chile, Mexico and my country. The living conditions of Salvadorans have changed considerably. Rates of unemployment have fallen from 13 per cent to 6.8 per cent. Having had only 250,000 telephone lines in 1992, we now have 1.6 million. It is less expensive to make a telephone call from El Salvador to United Nations Headquarters than it is from Headquarters to El Salvador. In just over a decade, the number of automobiles has grown by a factor of four. We have managed to increase the supply of drinking water and electrification in rural areas by 50 per cent. We have achieved peace. We have devoted our energies to economic development and our resources to the poorest among us. I have elaborated on developments in my country in recent years because it seems to me that we in El Salvador have discovered an effective way not only of resolving violent conflict, but also of combating poverty. Such means, which the international community is seeking to confront the complexities of our world, are based on universally valid principles. Thus, to understand the case of El Salvador is to understand new possibilities for other nations and solutions to other problems. The two most important challenges for a nation are learning how to live and understanding why we are alive. The former is an entirely practical matter, requiring knowledge of the workings of the modern world — how it works and what opportunities are available to a poor country in a world that is rapidly evolving. The second is an entirely abstract matter, but it is all the more important for that, because only when we are clear about the meaning of our shared lives can we develop a sense of purpose that allows us to channel the energies of a community towards a national objective. It is a paradox rich in significance that we Salvadorans, in order to find our commitment to the future, had to delve into the traditions that gave us our identity in the past. When we found ourselves in the dead end of war, we had to rethink our destiny. In spite of our suffering, we had all the resources we needed to move ahead: talent, energy, experience, faith and will. We had the prudence to avoid future dangers and the courage to confront present challenges. The basic principle on which we have built our country is that every Salvadoran has access to the truth. In every part of our land, it is possible for every Salvadoran to speak out, to express himself or herself without any constraint based on status. It is on the basis of the views of our compatriots that we have built the new El Salvador. We decided that, if this were to become a reality, three principles were needed: freedom, justice and the inalienable right to life. The concrete manifestations of these values are democracy, economic freedom and the rule of law. This applies not only to El Salvador and Salvadorans, but equally to all the inhabitants of our world. Every human being has access to the truth. It is in the human capacity for reason that we find our moral potential. That is why we must be free. At a time when we wonder about the role of the United Nations, we must recall that the Organization was born to ensure those fundamental rights. This forum cannot be paralysed in debates when freeing a nation from tyranny is at issue. We must all act in the face of oppression. Terrorism is a negation of all the values we share. We need a consensus on the values that unite us and a renewed will for action. We can debate interminably here the issue of Iraq and the current circumstances of the Iraqi people, but what brooks no debate is the fact that this forum has not acted in a way commensurate with the demands of an increasingly complex world. The United Nations 12 must be rethought and restructured so that it can meet the objectives for which it was created. We Salvadorans speak with the solidity that we have gained from having fully shouldered our responsibilities towards the international community. We are participants in the reconstruction of Iraq. We speak with the legitimacy of having been ourselves the battleground of the last conflict of the cold war and we understand how the mediation of the international community can help to find a solution to a conflict and give hope to a desperate nation. In conclusion, we wish to express our sorrow at the death of United Nations staff members in Baghdad. We reaffirm the right of all nations to have a voice in this forum. The absence of the Republic of China in the deliberations of this forum represents a rejection of the legitimate aspirations of a nation that should speak in its own voice, just as we do, in this body and the community of nations. The liberator of the Americas summarized, in words far more eloquent than mine, the values that must inspire this forum and our discussions here. He said: “Peoples, no one can take possession of your sovereignty, unless it be violently and illegitimately. Flee that country where one person alone seeks to exercise all powers. That will be a country of slaves.”  ﻿Allow me, Sir, on behalf of the Sultanate of Oman, to congratulate you on your election as President of the General Assembly at this session. We assure you of our readiness to work with you and to contribute sincerely and successfully to the achievement of the noble goals we all seek to accomplish in the service of humanity, and to the safety and security of the international community. I also take this opportunity to express our heartfelt thanks to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan, who presided over the previous session, for his efforts to guarantee the success of the regular session and the special sessions held during the past year. Let me also acknowledge the tireless and serious efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to promote the leading role of the United Nations in the field of international peace and security. 6 Once again, we stress the Sultanate of Oman’s support for the Organization in its endeavours to achieve the purposes and principles of the Charter. At the outset, I should like to shed some light on the measures taken by my country to develop its important institutions, particularly the judiciary. It is our strong belief that a fair and just judiciary forms the basis for social and economic development. In our contemporary history, the Sultanate of Oman has enabled the judiciary to become the most important means of establishing justice, issuing fair rulings and removing injustices in society, without interference by the Executive branch or by any other branch of Government. That development was endorsed in the constitutional State system enacted by His Majesty Sultan Qaboos Bin Said through decree 101/96, issued on 6 November 1996. His Majesty also issued decree 90/99, which enacted the law granting full independence to the judiciary, on 21 November 1999. That law regulates the jurisdiction and the functions of courts of various circuits and at various levels. Moreover, the Supreme Court was established at the top of the judicial pyramid, with competence to standardize legal principles and to address faulty rulings. That was followed by a series of laws organizing various judicial organs, including a law establishing the higher judicial system. Additionally, a draft law on civil and trade procedures has been elaborated. All of the aforementioned demonstrates His Majesty’s interest in guaranteeing the well-being of the Omani citizen and in ensuring that all citizens are familiar with their rights and obligations, which are guaranteed through the right to due process. In the spirit of continued development and broadened participation by the Omani people in our social and economic development programmes, my country — since the dawn of the blessed renaissance that began in 1970 at the initiative of His Majesty Sultan Qaboos Bin Said and that has continued throughout the past 33 years — has adopted an approach utilizing the experience and expertise of Omani citizens in the Majlis al-Shura, or Consultative Council, which includes positive aspects of our cultural heritage in the modern development of the Sultanate. Our Consultative Council process has witnessed a qualitative shift and an important transformation in our modern history. His Majesty Sultan Qaboos Bin Said issued royal instructions in October 2002 expanding the base of popular participation in elections for the Omani Consultative Council by granting every citizen, male or female, over the age of 21, the right to vote and to participate in the next election — scheduled for 4 October — to select the 83 members of the Consultative Council for its fifth session, from 2004 to 2006. That step complements previous steps aimed at developing the Consultative Council. Those important developments in the Sultanate of Oman will create a strong foundation for more development and advancement programmes to benefit the Omani people. We have followed recent developments in Palestine with grave concern. The Palestinian National Authority responded positively to the international community’s demands by accepting the road map — considered the most important document in the history of the Arab-Israeli conflict — which embodies the international commitment to establishing an independent, sovereign Palestinian State alongside the State of Israel. Nevertheless, the cycle of violence between the Palestinians and the Israeli Government continues unabated, which may doom the entire peace process, plunging it into a dark abyss from which it could be very difficult to rescue it. Therefore, the Quartet — sponsor of the road map — must shoulder its international responsibilities in that regard. One might well wonder how peace can be achieved between the Palestinian and Israeli peoples when the Israeli Government has decided in principle to expel President Yasser Arafat, Chairman of the Palestinian Authority and elected leader of the Palestinian people. One might also ask whether the Government of Israel, a Member State of the United Nations, is honouring its commitments under the Charter. The United Nations must intervene to put an end to that Israeli policy. Israel must respond to the international community’s demands and must comply with international resolutions. It must respond positively to international efforts aimed at implementation of the road map, which provides both parties with international guarantees aimed at achieving peace based on the establishment of an independent, sovereign Palestinian State on all Palestinian territories occupied by Israel since 1967. Such a solution would give the States in the region a historic opportunity to build a new Middle East. In that connection, we must warn that failure to commit to the establishment of a Palestinian State in conformity with 7 the road map would create a crisis with catastrophic results. My country shares with many other Member States the view that peace in the Middle East region will not be true and lasting unless our approach is just and comprehensive. In that connection, the Sultanate of Oman reaffirms its support for Lebanon’s right to restore the remaining Sheba’a farms and the Syrian Arab Republic’s right to recover the Syrian Golan, occupied on 4 June 1967. The war against Iraq in the first half of this year was only one link in the chain of wars that have been endured by the Middle East region. That war created a new reality, characterized mainly by the collapse of the former regime, the creation of a huge political and security vacuum and deterioration in basic services for Iraqi society. The continued lack of security in Iraq and the resulting loss of lives — in addition to the destruction of the United Nations Office and the escalation in assassinations — certainly do not help Iraq in this phase of re-establishing the Government and rebuilding the country. Prompted by our concern about the situation in Iraq, we believe that efforts are needed to enable the Iraqis to assume full responsibility for managing their country. Iraq has an abundance of national experts in every field. These qualified Iraqi cadres are capable of leading the process of restoring security and of rebuilding and fully developing their country. Iraq also possesses enormous economic and human resources that could help it to regain its strength and to play its regional and international roles. Undoubtedly, an active role for the United Nations and its specialized agencies will help us to attain our common objective: unity and territorial integrity for Iraq and prosperity and security for all its people. Committed to Iraq’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity, we welcomed the formation of the transitional Governing Council. We believe it essential to deal with that political institution so that we begin to build the right foundations for post-war Iraq — including the provision of basic services and the creation of a political climate conducive to the establishment of a stable political system that will respond to the Iraqi people’s wishes — as a prelude to beginning the reconstruction phase. Stability and the consolidation of security are requirements of all peoples throughout the world. We in the Sultanate of Oman — like all other countries in the Middle East — have been following with interest and optimism the official contacts taking place in various conflict areas. We hope that the contacts and discussions between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran concerning the islands belonging to the United Arab Emirates will enable the two countries to arrive at an effective mechanism to settle their dispute. In addition, we appreciate the initiatives by India and Pakistan aimed at starting a dialogue between them. Moreover, my country hopes that the two Koreas and other concerned parties will be able to reach an agreement that addresses the various outstanding issues through constructive dialogue and adherence to international conventions and resolutions. We hope that that part of the world will ultimately achieve peace and coexistence. We also pay tribute to the peaceful efforts to solve the conflicts in Africa, and call on the international community to assist in developing a fair system to improve economic conditions and a mechanism to relieve the onerous burden of debt on African countries. International policies have in recent years led to the emergence of various types of terrorist acts. All of us must pause and deeply focus on this phenomenon, which targets people’s security and safety. We believe that it has become essential to study in a comprehensive and cooperative manner the root causes underlying this phenomenon. Although we fully support international efforts to combat terrorism by all available means, we must allocate part of the massive financial resources devoted to combating terrorism to help the least developed countries that may be fertile ground for terrorist activities. There is no doubt that United Nations efforts in the field of disarmament are leading nowhere. They will remain an exercise in futility so long as Member States cannot count on an effective system of collective security safeguards. Without such a system, responsibility for assessments of the level and quality of weapons needed will be subjective and fall solely to individual Governments. This would open the door wide to further arms races, and hinder progress towards disarmament or the reduction of armaments. While supporting the efforts to limit armaments, the Sultanate of Oman affirms the need to take practical measures in accordance with the International 8 Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) regime of mutual guarantees. My country signed a safeguards agreement with the IAEA on 28 June 2001 at the headquarters of the Agency in Vienna. My country also believes that it is essential to promote cooperation between States to reduce the illegal trafficking of small arms and light weapons, which are the reason for most of the conflicts in the world. My country notes the efforts made by the United Nations to achieve the elimination of all lethal weapons from every corner of the earth and from outer space. My country supports all these efforts and underlines the responsibility of the international Organization for establishing a world order that is more capable of guaranteeing security for all States in a manner that reflects the reality of life in the third millennium. It should be consistent with partnership and with responsibilities, which are essential for the success of all efforts. This session is being convened at a time of continuous and intertwined development at the world economic, financial and trade levels. Many economies still suffer from economic stagnation and recession. The Sultanate of Oman appreciates the continued efforts of the International Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization (WTO) to achieve complementarity in their work so that they may confront the challenges that the countries of the world are now facing. These challenges include economic growth, sustainable development, poverty reduction and financial stability and balance. Since its accession to the World Trade Organization in October 2000, the Sultanate of Oman has taken great strides towards implementing its commitments to the Organization. The Sultanate has introduced many amendments and improvements to its systems, organizations and laws, and has enacted new legislation in conformity with the requirements of the World Trade Organization. My country has also been following with great interest the ongoing negotiations in the framework of the World Trade Organization with a view to overcoming the obstacles and difficulties impeding its work. Here, we must point an important difference between developing countries and developed countries, in that the latter control the World Intellectual Property Organization agreements and other conventions. Such agreements should not be misused by multinational corporations in a manner that adds to the burdens of the least developed countries in the fields of pharmaceuticals, foodstuffs and technology transfer, which would only exacerbate the obstacles to trade liberalization that the World Trade Organization is trying to overcome. Although the WTO Council of Ministers issued a separate statement on safeguards for patented drugs, aimed at helping developing countries to combat serious and contagious diseases, such a step may not sufficiently protect least developed countries from being forced to bear excessive costs. The Sultanate of Oman has worked hard at the regional level with its brothers and friends and through regional economic groupings, to enhance the climate for the liberalization of trade and the economy. In the framework of the Gulf Cooperation Council, the Sultanate participated in the establishment of the Gulf Customs Union at the beginning of this year. In the framework of the Arab League, we have also pushed forward the deadline for the establishment of a free- trade zone among the Arab States parties to the trade zone agreement to the beginning of January 2005 when full liberalization is expected to occur, opening the door to the free trade of Arab products and paving the way to an Arab common market. At the local level, my country has continued its efforts to enhance the role of the private sector in the national economy, based on the market economy and free competition and a favourable economic and trade climate that aims at the achievement of a true investment and trade partnership with all countries of the world, in the hope that conditions will be conducive to linking the economy of Oman to the world economy. Recognizing that the protection of the environment and its resources is a collective responsibility, my country’s Government has been active in stimulating the role of Omani society and its effective contribution to this cause. Here, we to reaffirm our commitment to the basic principles adopted at the two earth summits, in Rio de Janeiro, in 1992, and in South Africa, in 2002. We believe that these principles constitute a scientific framework that will guarantee our world partnership and help us to shoulder our collective responsibility for the protection of the environment and its natural resources in the service of sustainable development. 9 We would like to express our gratitude and appreciation for the efforts and endeavours of the Secretary-General as reflected in his annual report, in which he details the achievements of the United Nations, as well as and the obstacles it faces, and sets out the strategies for the future for this Organization, which embodies the conscience and aspirations of the world. We support the proposals in the Secretary- General’s report on developing and restructuring the organs of the United Nations to enable the Organization to reflect current political reality. The United Nations should remain a true cornerstone of world policy and the main source of international legitimacy, so that countries may appeal to it for the prevention of wars and conflict. This is only possible through the effective pursuit of preventive diplomacy, the peaceful settlement of disputes and the maintenance of peace, enhancing world cooperation and dialogue among civilizations. This involves working towards resolving the problems of poverty and disease, protecting the environment, combating terrorism and bridging the gap between the rich countries of the North and the poor countries of the South. Relations between the United Nations and regional organizations in the maintenance of international peace and security should be strengthened through the enhancement of weak regional structures to enable them to archive collective security in a world governed by technology and great population increases. We believe that the United Nations represents international legitimacy. It is the crucible in which all regional and international efforts meld to realize the hopes and aspirations of our peoples and to confront the real challenges to peace, security and development in all their aspects. This can enhance relations and stability and spread a culture of peace and constructive dialogue among present and future generations to counter the logic of the threat of force or apprehensions about the future. We hope that this session will be a success so that it may chart a vision for the future that points to ways to serve humanity and renew the Member States’ trust in the Organization, total commitment to the implementation of its resolutions and respect for the provisions of the Charter.  ﻿I would like first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on being unanimously elected to chair the fifty- eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. On behalf of the Kingdom of Morocco and of the Group of 77 and China, I wish to assure you of our full support for making a success of this important session. Realizing what a delicate phase our Organization is going through, many heads of State and Government have accepted the invitation extended to them by Mr. Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary-General. I should like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to him, once again, for the relentless efforts he is making to shore up the efficiency of the Organization. This is an emotionally charged moment for me, as I stand on this prestigious rostrum and recall the appeal and initiatives launched by my late grandfather and father, Their Majesties King Mohammed V and King Hassan II, urging concerted action by the international community to speed up decolonization, especially in the Arab Maghreb and on the African continent, and to uphold the principles of peace, coexistence, openness and tolerance. What we have done, at the international level, has always been guided by the same ideals that inspired the founders of our Organization. It seeks to contribute to the significant cultural accomplishments made by mankind thanks to this institution, to preserve human dignity, and to ensure equality in rights and obligations, not only between men and women, but also among nations, large and small, in full respect of international legality, and in a spirit of freedom and solidarity. 30 We certainly value the positive and concrete achievements of the Organization. However, in keeping with our firm commitment to its noble mission, we ask ourselves: to what extent has the Organization managed to make peace prevail and to contribute significantly to sustainable development and to the settlement of conflicts arising, more often than not, from colonization, which tore apart entire peoples and nations, especially across our African continent? Moreover, I should like to assure our brothers and sisters from African States of Morocco's constant and unwavering solidarity as well as of its determination to further expand cooperation with them on political, economic, social and security matters and to support constructive African initiatives. In that context, the international community is called upon to provide tangible support to the African strategy, the New Partnership for Africa's Development, which targets the sustainable development of the African continent, mostly through interaction on the part of its subregional entities. The Millennium Declaration marked a turning point in carrying out the mission unanimously entrusted to the United Nations in the area of sustainable development. Indeed, for the first time, heads of State and Government agreed on specific objectives and targets in the social, economic and educational fields up to the year 2015. As early as January this year, I made a point of assigning to the Chair of the Group of 77 and China the priority task of ensuring follow-up to those commitments and monitoring their integrated implementation. On our Group's initiative, the General Assembly unanimously adopted a resolution to that effect last June, pending a global assessment in 2005. Although the Group of 77 and China has sought to keep development issues high on the Organization's agenda, one must admit that the main thrust of our efforts has focused on the serious threats posed to world peace in the Middle East region. Despite the efforts undertaken for the settlement of the Palestinian question whether by the United Nations or by the international Quartet, through the road map the logic of violence and intransigence continues to hamper the restoration of peace. The sufferings, deprivations and injustices endured daily by the brotherly Palestinian people call for stronger commitment on the part of the international community to achieving irreversible implementation of the road map. As Chairman of the al-Quds Committee, I wish to say that I am fully prepared to help to find a just and final solution leading to the establishment of a viable Palestinian State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, living side by side with the State of Israel, in a just, comprehensive and lasting peace. With the settlement of that issue which is contingent upon the withdrawal of Israel from all occupied Arab territories the region will regain its original status as a land of religious and cultural coexistence. Similarly, Morocco calls for concerted international action that would enable the brotherly Iraqi people to live in security, stability and freedom and to rebuild their country, while ensuring that their choices are fully respected and that their State's sovereignty, national unity and territorial integrity are preserved. The Mediterranean region is particularly affected by the crises I have just mentioned. We therefore believe that the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue is an element that is key for the region's stability, security and development. In that context, the Kingdom of Morocco has made the strategic choice of opting for the construction of the Arab Maghreb as a region where peace and development may be fostered for the benefit of its members, where there must be no tendency towards balkanization and where the fundamental national attributes of each Member State are fully respected. The Kingdom of Morocco, guided by that Maghreban ideal and committed to safeguarding its good-neighbourly relations, has agreed to ease the tension fomented on its borders and is endeavouring in all good faith to find an international consensus on the issue of the Moroccan Sahara. The attempts that have been made thus far to reach a solution show that the only way to resolve the issue once and for all is to come up with a realistic and final political solution in keeping with democratic principles, while fully respecting the Kingdom of Morocco's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as the United Nations itself recommended in June 2001. In that connection, I should like once more to officially proclaim Morocco's pledge to cooperate with the United Nations to bring about such a political solution. 31 Ever since the tragic events of 11 September, the international community has been involved in a resolute fight against international terrorism, which poses a threat to mankind's most sacred values. Last May, the Moroccan nation was itself the target of the odious plague of terrorism in a desperate attempt to challenge the democratic model that Morocco has chosen and to undermine its strong commitment to the values of freedom, tolerance and openness. We should therefore like to insist on the need for intensified international cooperation to eradicate this scourge. Here, I should like to strongly denounce the confusion deliberately created by those who persistently associate terrorism with Islam, thus choosing to ignore the fact that Islam advocates peace and respect for human life and flatly rejects injustice and aggression. The United Nations system is now confronted with a deeply troubled international environment and faces new and major challenges. If the United Nations is to play its role as the sole regulator of relations between and among States, it is imperative that we restore to the concept of universalism its original meaning: the obligation shared by all to comply with the same ethics and rules of law and with effective solidarity among all peoples and nations. To attain that objective, mankind must find new reasons to rekindle hope. We must also have faith and confidence in the United Nations to help it recover its standing and its effectiveness. Let us therefore make a common pledge to build up its resources and to strengthen its action. The Assembly may count on the help and support of the King of Morocco so that, together, we may build a safer, more equitable and more humane world.  ﻿The General Assembly is meeting in the shadow of the tragedy last month in which United Nations staff were killed or injured in Baghdad. New Zealand unreservedly condemns such brutal and calculated acts of terror. The United Nations, after all, was in Iraq to improve the conditions of Iraqi people and to assist the restoration of Iraqi sovereignty. We mourn the loss of all those who perished. In particular, I pay tribute to Sergio Vieira de Mello, who worked so effectively in the world’s trouble spots, including Timor-Leste, where New Zealand worked alongside him and developed huge admiration for his ability and determination. This was not the first occasion on which the employees of the international community have been targeted, although it was the worst. History suggests that it will not be the last. To do its work effectively, the United Nations must interact with local communities, not operate from behind barbed wire and concrete barriers. Its employees are mainly unarmed civilians. We, the States Members of the United Nations, must do more to protect those whom we employ to work on our behalf. Nine years ago New Zealand was at the forefront in creating the Convention for the Safety of United 7 Nations and Associated Personnel. It was opened for signature in 1995. Regrettably, only one third of the membership has since become a party to it. We urge all countries to do so now. New Zealand believes that the Convention should be widened to cover all situations where United Nations and other associated personnel are engaged in peacekeeping, humanitarian and other assistance- related activities. Over the last year we have witnessed terrorist attacks, including in Casablanca, Riyadh and Jakarta, as well as in Baghdad. Next month is the first anniversary of the terrorist attack in Bali, in which more than 200 people lost their lives. And two years ago this city itself was the victim of the 9/11 attacks, which took 3,000 lives. International terrorism remains the primary threat to the security and well-being of people across the world. If we are to defeat terrorism, regional cooperation is imperative. In the Asia Pacific region, a concerted response to terrorism is now at the centre of the Association of South-east Asian Nations Regional Forum agenda and is becoming increasingly important in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation. The Pacific Islands Forum is responding collectively to security challenges, including terrorism, transnational crimes and challenges to national integrity and independence. An effective campaign against terrorism requires international collaboration on intelligence, military, social and economic measures. New Zealand is aware that while we focus on the symptoms of terrorism, the international community must work together to tackle the conditions that foster it. We welcome the Norwegian initiative to strengthen analysis of the causes of terrorism. There are simply no ends that can justify the death and the maiming of vulnerable and innocent people. New Zealand has, since 1972, supported the development of a comprehensive international regime to outlaw terrorism. I hope that the General Assembly will be able to move forward on this issue and conclude the comprehensive and nuclear terrorism conventions. In combating terrorism, however, we should avoid undermining the very values we are seeking to uphold. The fight against terrorism should not become an excuse to justify actions that do not conform to international standards of humanity. New Zealand is the current Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum, which it hosted last month. Leaders strongly endorsed the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands — a concrete example of the region working together to assist one of its members to restore security, stability and progress to its people. New Zealand joined with the other members of the Pacific Islands Forum in responding to a request from the Solomon Islands Government for police and military assistance to end the actions of armed criminals responsible for the deterioration in the social and economic conditions in the Solomon Islands. A police-led operation has been working successfully to restore the rule of law and economic stability. In failed or weak States, Governments often lack the capacity or will to exercise territorial control. That can create a power vacuum for terrorist organizations and criminals to exploit and maintain safe havens, training facilities and bases for launching terrorist operations. The Regional Assistance Mission has gone exceptionally well to date and has received strong support from the people of the Solomon Islands. It is a Pacific solution to a Pacific problem. Cooperation and commitment by Pacific States to respond to regional security needs, under the umbrella of the Pacific Islands Forum, is a model that other regions could adopt. The statements of support from the Secretary- General and the Security Council for this regional action, taken in accordance with the Charter, are welcome. We would urge the United Nations to assist where it can the process of rebuilding the social structure and the economy of that country. New Zealand is working to enhance and complement existing security capabilities within the Pacific region. We are engaged in a number of activities, including establishing border security systems and drafting model legislation to address terrorism and transnational organized crime. The international community must retain an ongoing commitment to Afghanistan, where President Karzai’s Government continues to face significant challenges. Improving security outside Kabul will be a crucial element in bringing political stability to Afghanistan. 8 It is in the interests of us all to assist in the restoration of Afghanistan — not only for the well- being of the Afghan people, but also so that terrorists cannot operate freely within its borders. Earlier this week, New Zealand assumed leadership of the Provincial Reconstruction Team in Bamian Province. I am pleased that we could demonstrate support for the Afghanistan Transitional Government in this way. The shared nightmare of all States is that weapons of mass destruction or the materials from which they can be constructed will find their way into the terrorist arsenal. The possibility of nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists is a worst-case scenario with horrific implications. We must do everything we can to prevent this from happening. The possible acquisition of nuclear weapons by terrorist groups increases as the numbers and types of these weapons, and the States that possess them, continue to expand. For these and other reasons the elimination of these weapons is vital. New Zealand calls on all countries to commit and to adhere to multilateral disarmament and arms control treaties. North Korea’s proclaimed nuclear weapons programme is a major concern. We urge North Korea to resume its cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and its commitment to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). The current multilateral dialogue process is a positive way forward. We commend China for facilitating this. Iran, too, must heed the strong message of the international community and take the urgent steps required to restore confidence that its nuclear intentions are peaceful. The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty is equally about nuclear disarmament. The commitment given by the nuclear-weapon States to give up their nuclear weapons, reaffirmed unequivocally at the NPT Review Conference in 2000, must be honoured. The nuclear Powers have a particular responsibility in this respect. They must lead by example against proliferation. Meaningful steps toward permanent disarmament would add to their moral authority in demanding that others must not develop nuclear weapons capability. The invasion of Iraq has had a profound impact on this Organization. We regret that differences of view could not be resolved in the Security Council. The reconstruction of Iraq, the restoration of its sovereignty and the rebuilding of political and social structures to guarantee the Iraqi people a better life are now the critical issues. We welcome initiatives to push forward the political and constitutional process. The passage of Security Council resolutions 1483 (2003) and 1500 (2003) recognizes the vital role of the United Nations and the need for the international community to be fully engaged in reconstruction efforts. While responsibility for security must inevitably rest with coalition forces, multilateralism offers the best prospect and the greatest legitimacy for the process of transition back to Iraqi self-rule. New Zealand has announced substantial contributions to reconstruction and humanitarian relief work. These include the deployment of a New Zealand Defence Force light engineer group to work on humanitarian and reconstruction tasks alongside a United Kingdom engineer regiment in southern Iraq. We have helped with demining operations and have made contributions through United Nations agencies, the International Committee of the Red Cross and non- governmental organizations. New Zealand continues to view the United Nations as the best hope we have to collectively pursue the principles enshrined in the Charter. The strength of the United Nation is that it brings all countries of the world together on an equal footing to address common problems. Millions of people around the world have had their lives improved by the actions of the United Nations. East Timor is but one recent example of its effectiveness when it is supported by a common will to act. At the same time, we all recognize the need to reform the Organization. In opening this session, the Secretary-General called on us to consider whether the rules and instruments of this multilateral institution continue to serve us well. We have been discussing the reform of the Security Council for more than a decade now. It is time to make an institution designed in an earlier age, for a smaller number of nations more representative and responsive to the 191 current Members of the United Nations. We welcome the establishment of a panel to address key issues fundamental to the Organization’s future role. Member States will need to put aside self-interest and 9 differences to reach agreement on the panel’s findings and to translate those into action. Fifty-eight years ago, the United Nations was created in the aftermath of the death and devastation that had resulted from two world wars. The vision of its founders was that of an organization that would establish rules to govern international behaviour, with procedures to enforce them through collective action. The United Nations was bestowed with a unique legitimacy and unique authority to resolve conflict. Whatever its shortcomings, it remains an indispensable organization. The challenge before us is to create the structures and provide the political will that will enable it to deliver the peaceful, just and prosperous world that is the hope and expectation of humanity. ﻿I would like to extend to you, Sir, my warmest congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. We are indeed very happy to see a Minister from a fellow Commonwealth, and also an island State, presiding over the session. I am sure that your diplomatic skills, experience and grasp of the issues will harmoniously steer our work. I would also like to express our thanks and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for the excellent record of his presidency. This year my country is about to fulfil its most ambitious aspiration — joining the European Union. After having signed the accession treaty in April, we expect to become a full member, along with nine other acceding countries, on 1 May 2004. But already we are associated with the work of the Union and participate in all meetings and in the life of the new European family of the 25 members. Hence, Cyprus is represented by the statement of the Italian Presidency of the European Union and fully subscribes to its contents. Unfortunately, the current session is taking place in a heavy and loaded atmosphere. The deadly attack against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad last month, as well as the most recent one of two days ago, continue to fill us with bitterness and indignation. We all share the feeling of great injustice and insult to the international community. Once again, I wish to express our deep condolences to the victims’ families and our sympathy to those injured. At the same time, we should also convey the message that such actions will not deter us from the pursuit of the high ideals of the United Nations and its engagement in Iraq. From Baghdad to Jakarta, from Russia to India, and back to the heinous attacks of 11 September two years ago, terrorist acts around the globe serve as a painful reminder that terrorism transcends borders and attacks universal values. Freedom, democracy, human rights and humanity itself have to be defended by the international community with persistence and determination. At the same time, we should be cautious and ensure that our actions are fully in line with the cherished values we want to uphold. As the threat is unfortunately far from over, a genuine global mobilization, under the aegis of the United Nations, is of the essence if this endeavour is to be successful. 2 Cyprus is playing its part fully in this concerted effort and is among the countries that have ratified all 12 of the international conventions pertaining to terrorism. Furthermore, it has recently ratified the United Nations Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel of 1994. The non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction has become, and rightly so, a top priority in the world’s agenda. The risk of acquisition of such weapons by terrorist groups highlights even more the gravity and the urgency of the issues to be addressed. In that respect, the United Nations has a truly instrumental role to play. The universalization of, and compliance with, multilateral treaties related to disarmament and non-proliferation, as well as verification mechanisms and internationally-coordinated export controls, are essential tools in our efforts. We have repeatedly expressed our genuine commitment to international norms in the field of disarmament. I am happy to report that Cyprus, earlier this year, ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the Ottawa Convention. The Government of Cyprus attaches great importance to the international effort against mine proliferation and the clearing of minefields. For this reason it has taken the initiative to clear all minefields laid in the buffer zone by the Cyprus National Guard immediately after the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. In this regard, I would like to announce today my Government’s decision and firm commitment: first, to unilaterally start within the next two months, in cooperation with the United Nations and with the financial support of the European Union, mine clearance in the buffer zone and, secondly, to unilaterally proceed with the destruction of an appreciable amount of stockpiled antipersonnel mines this year during the month of November. This is just a first step but, I believe, a major one in the implementation of our obligations under the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction (Ottawa Convention). This year again, the situation in the Middle East remains a source of major concern for the region and beyond. The Quartet’s road map, with the overwhelming international support it enjoys, represents an historic opportunity that should not be missed. Unfortunately, in recent days, the international community has held its breath as blind and spiralling violence thwarts the efforts to place and maintain on a solid track this process which would lead to a settlement. The necessary political will should be demonstrated by both sides, at all levels, and be matched with persistent action on the ground, in the right direction. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate our longstanding position for a just settlement, in accordance with international law, United Nations resolutions and the agreements reached between the parties, which will put an end to the occupation and realize the aspirations of the Palestinian people for the establishment of an independent state, side by side with Israel, in peace and security. Cyprus, a country of the region with traditionally close relations with both parties, stands ready to assist in every possible way. The realization of the Charter’s vision of a just, peaceful and prosperous world remains inextricably linked with the commitment to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in full conformity with their universal, indivisible and interdependent nature. The Republic of Cyprus, still witnessing serious violations of human rights within its territory by foreign armed forces, places human rights at the very top of its agenda. While working hard for the promotion and protection of the human rights of all its citizens under the harsh circumstances imposed by the invasion and occupation of a significant part of its territory, Cyprus never loses sight of the universal dimension of human rights and remains active and resolutely watches over the protection of human rights throughout the world. It reaffirms its full support of the Secretary General’s efforts to integrate human rights into the whole range of United Nations activities and reiterates its commitment to working closely with United Nations partners towards their universal implementation. We still strive in Cyprus for establishing the fate of all those Cypriots, both Greek and Turkish, missing since the Turkish invasion of 1974. This is a major issue of a purely humanitarian character and we seek the support of the international community as a whole in order to put an end, at last, to the continuing ordeal of so many families. For this to happen, the cooperation and political will of the Republic of Turkey are absolutely necessary. Furthermore, the rights of the few remaining enclaved persons in the occupied part of Cyprus 3 continue to be violated. The rights of the refugees are also still being denied, while our people face new faits accomplis by the occupation army, as in the case of the advance of the Turkish Army in the area of Strovilia. With the assistance of the international community we are, nevertheless, resolved to persevere in the implementation of international conventions and for the restoration of the human rights of all Cypriots. In view of the new challenges that the United Nations is required to face, Cyprus strongly supports the Secretary General’s United Nations objectives, which aim at adapting the internal structures and culture of the Organization to new expectations. It therefore welcomes the work done on strengthening the management and administration — as well as streamlining the budget — of the United Nations. My country also attaches great importance to the improvement of the intergovernmental structure and processes of the United Nations and the revitalization of the General Assembly as essential elements of the reform process, whose aim is to bring about a stronger United Nations system that will be able to effectively pursue the priorities adopted in the United Nations Millennium Declaration. We certainly need effectiveness but we cannot separate it from legitimacy. In Cyprus, we know, from our own experience, both the importance of legitimacy and the need for effectiveness. We have been facing the catastrophic results of aggression and we have been struggling for more than 29 years for the solution of the problem created by the invasion and occupation of the northern part of our country by Turkey. Despite all efforts, Turkish intransigence has not been curbed and their defiance of numerous resolutions of the General Assembly and of the Security Council continues unabated. Such an attitude constitutes not only unacceptable behaviour in international relations but is also completely anachronistic and incomprehensible to any rational thought. Furthermore it is at variance with the will and the wish of the overwhelming majority of Turkish Cypriots themselves who are persistently asking for a solution and for participation in the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. We continue, as far as we are concerned, to do our best to bring them on board and we have embarked on an ambitious policy in order to enhance their standard of living and allow them to fully enjoy the rights and benefits that they are entitled to as Cypriots. In Cyprus, we have faced adversity for so many years and we have survived. Hence, we know that we have to persevere. We still believe in the United Nations and we are grateful for its interest and involvement. I would like to take this opportunity to express our sincere thanks to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts within the framework of his mission of good offices in Cyprus, entrusted to him by the Security Council. I would like also to praise the work of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General, Mr. Álvaro de Soto, and all members of his team, of his assistant of the United Nations Mission, as well as of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus and of the contributing countries. I believe that it is appropriate to mention this here at this stage because, as you all know, the continuing and longstanding Turkish intransigence thwarted a few months ago what was probably the strongest initiative ever of the United Nations for finding a solution in Cyprus. We understand and share the bitterness and the disappointment of all involved regarding this failure but, as I said before, we should not give up. We have always counted on United Nations support and involvement and we will continue to do so. We are always ready, whenever the Secretary-General invites us, to engage in serious negotiations on the basis of his plan in order to reach a settlement as soon as possible, in conformity with relevant United Nations resolutions. We hope that it will soon be possible for the other side to realize that they have to return to the negotiating table, to cooperate constructively with the Secretary- General and to demonstrate the necessary political will to yield a settlement. A solution is urgently needed in Cyprus, a functional and viable solution that will embrace all Cypriots and will allow our country to take its stride and fully assume its place and role within the European family. A united Cyprus in a united Europe will thrive and progress with its partners towards a secure and prosperous future, working hand in hand with all other members of the international community for the promotion of universal values and peace.  ﻿At the outset, allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I am fully convinced that, under your leadership, the proceedings of this session will be crowned with success. It is only right that, in addressing the present audience, my first thought should go to Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and Special Representative of the Secretary-General to Iraq. From this rostrum, I wish to pay homage to his activity and contribution and to express profound sadness over the loss of his and other human lives in the cruel terrorist attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. This session is convening at the end of a year full of challenges and achievements for the international community, and certainly for the United Nations. We believe that the United Nations has identified the maintenance of peace, security and international stability and the protection of human rights as the fundamental objectives of its activity. This is best reflected in the Millennium Declaration, which outlines the common vision for building a better world without conflict or poverty. We share the opinion of Secretary-General Kofi Annan that the major changes that occurred across the world following the events of 11 September 2003, the phenomenon of international terrorism and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have emphasized the need to address the major challenges of our times from a new perspective and, in this context, to further improve the performance of the United Nations structures. In this spirit, Albania did not hesitate to join the United States-led coalition against international terrorism. Albania has signed 12 international conventions and protocols in the war against terrorism. It is working closely with its neighbours, other countries at large and international bodies with a view to eradicating the potential sources of various forms of terrorism. We underscore the need for vigilance, coordination and reaction in the face of the threats currently posed by weapons of mass destruction. These weapons be they chemical, biological or nuclear are even more dangerous in the hands of terrorists. At the same time, we are actively participating in the peacekeeping missions in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well 2 as in Bosnia and Georgia, as a demonstration of our will and commitment to the war on terror and to efforts to secure peace and security. We consider that deep- rooted democratic changes are important for both Afghanistan and Iraq. It is our conviction that the ability to live in freedom, despite the difficulties of transition, marks a point of no return on the journey away from dictatorship and from the terror that threatens others as well. Albanian politics and society have adopted a unified approach towards Euro-Atlantic integration, which is one of our major priorities. Consistent with our vital interests, the integration process has all popular support. We regard this not merely as a mechanical affiliation to the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), but as adherence to the standards and values of freedom, democracy and the free market. Given the brief period since the onset of these changes and the negative heritage of the past, we must recognize that Albania has made important and substantial achievements on the road of democracy, but this is no reason for complacency. We are aware that it will take far greater effort to move the initiated reforms forward, especially in the realm of the judiciary, the economy and the fight against crime and corruption, the latter having afflicted post-communist societies in general. We are already in the process of negotiation on the Stabilization and Association Agreement with the European Union. The Thessaloniki summit once again confirmed the open- door policy to be pursued towards Albania and the other four countries of the Western Balkans. Significant positive steps have also been taken concerning the NATO membership process, specifically following the Prague summit. The commitment of Albania, Croatia and Macedonia under the Adriatic 3 Charter will bring them closer to membership standards. We maintain that our convergence towards the standards of NATO and the European Union today and our full-fledged membership tomorrow will benefit the countries of our region, just as it will benefit Europe itself and overall peace and security. Albania considers regional cooperation to be a prerequisite and encouragement for Euro-Atlantic integration. We believe that the pursuit of dialogue, as well as enhanced cooperation and understanding among the Balkan countries, deeply reflect the aspirations of our citizens and impart a fresh impulse to the integrating processes. The Balkans, which not long ago were known as a source of conflicts and crises, now reveal a different picture that has changed in a positive way, with a significantly moderated political climate prevailing in the area. The region of former nationalistic clashes has turned into an area in which the culture of dialogue and good understanding is putting down roots. Although the supporters of the divisive and tragic past are still active in politics, overall the new political class in the Balkans is looking forward to the future and cooperation. Albania and the Albanians are playing an active role in building and strengthening this new spirit. We want and are working to ensure that we establish friendly relations of cooperation with all the countries in the region, so that we can move ahead towards our common European future. The investment our countries are making in a Euro-Atlantic future is one of the principal guarantees that the region will free itself from the bitter past and join the democratic flow of our times. Albania and the Balkans attach special importance to the enhancement of stability and the reinforcement of democracy in the areas formerly known as hotbeds. We appreciate the democratic and integrating developments in Kosovo, which do credit to the contribution of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo and the former Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Steiner. We support the new mission under the leadership of Mr. Holkeri and admire the performance of society and institutions in Kosovo towards building a democratic model of coexistence among its citizens. Stability in Kosovo is very important for stability in the region. That is why we have consistently bolstered the reforms and the achievements made with regard to the establishment and strengthening of the democratic institutions there. We have denounced acts of violence and have encouraged every initiative that helps to ensure respect for the norms of a democratic society, enforce the rule of law, promote a sustained and developed market economy, build democratic institutions, maintain inter-ethnic harmony and facilitate the return of displaced persons. Albania has urged and supported the efforts to start a dialogue between Pristina and Belgrade on mutually beneficial technical issues. We claim that the pursuit of dialogue is the best way to address problems and to create the necessary trust. Albania is of the opinion that the future of Kosovo, and hence its final 3 status, is an issue that ought to be decided at a later stage, which should not be postponed indefinitely. It is already widely recognized that this status will be determined through the will of the citizens of Kosovo in cooperation with the international community. Compliance with the required standards and determination of status are closely related and interdependent issues. The standards ensure the normal functioning of the local institutions, while the status brings about stability, peace and development in Kosovo and the region. The positive developments in Macedonia also give rise to hope for the achievement of lasting stability. We maintain, however, that the integral implementation of the Ohrid Agreement without delay is of crucial importance to the future of Macedonia. Albania denounces the extremists on all sides and abides by the spirit of tolerance and inter-ethnic coexistence. The Republic of Albania supports the plans and initiatives aimed at providing a comprehensive and lasting solution to the situation in the Middle East. In that context, we consider the road map to be the way towards the settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Before reaching that settlement, however, violence and terrorist acts should be renounced forever. Dialogue and the spirit of agreement should be promoted until an enforceable final solution is found. We believe that peace in the Middle East is an important pillar for peace and security the world over. The settlement of the Palestinian issue is essential for the resolution of the crisis in the Middle East and a core element for success in the fight against terrorism. The Albanian State values and believes in an even greater role of the United Nations in the strengthening of peace, security and economic and social development throughout the world. Albania supports reform to make the United Nations an ever stronger organization, capable of coping with the challenges of the present and providing timely solutions to issues of concern to all its Members. In that respect, we welcome the objectives the Secretary- General has set for the reform of the Organization as a whole and for its specific organs, including the General Assembly and the Security Council. In conclusion, allow me to reaffirm Albania's commitment to fulfilling its obligations stemming from the decisions to be taken during the present session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.  ﻿I present the warm wishes of the Government and people of Solomon Islands on the election of Mr. Julian Hunte as President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I also offer gratitude to his predecessor for presiding over the last session. And we salute the Secretary-General for his bold leadership of our Organization. Through him, Solomon Islands wishes to pay tribute to the members of the United Nations staff and others who lost their lives during the senseless attack on the United Nations office in Baghdad last August and the recent incident a few days ago. Fifty-eight years ago, the United Nations was founded to, among others things, guarantee freedom, peace and security and to promote economic and social advancement to all people. Over the years, many threats to international peace and security have receded or been resolved. The cold war has ended. Security and arms control regimes are in place. Institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and others have been established to address the economic and social dimension of humankind’s needs. In spite of these significant achievements, peace, security and our quest for sustained economic and social development remain the main challenges of our time. New and complex threats to international peace and security have emerged at alarming and global scales during the past decades. International terrorism continues unabated in different parts of the world, targeting and killing mainly innocent and vulnerable civilians. There can be no other option but for the international community to redouble efforts to fight this evil menace on all fronts. Solomon Islands remains committed to its obligations under Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). Steps are being taken to enact relevant legislation and to accede to international conventions to counter terrorist activities. Solomon Islands believes that a lasting settlement of the crisis in the Middle East will have positive 15 effects on global peace and security. We therefore support the efforts to bring lasting peace and stability to the region, especially to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the situation in Iraq. The United Nations must play a crucial role in the Middle East peace process. The primary responsibility of addressing the daunting challenges we face today lies with individual countries. However, history proves that much more could be effectively achieved through multilateralism. We all agree that this era of globalization brings new global challenges. And global challenges require cooperative global solutions. The United Nations, as the leading and legitimate multilateral institution, must take equal responsibility in addressing the global challenges we now face and must therefore be strengthened. This is why Solomon Islands supports the Secretary-General’s ongoing reform of the United Nations system as a process, not an event. Yes, the reform process has achieved positive results and greater transparency, but we need to do more if our Organization is to remain effective and relevant to the changing political environment. A reformed and restructured Security Council is also necessary. Japan, Germany and others deserve permanent membership in the Council. They are equally capable of contributing constructively to achieving and maintaining international peace and security. The use of veto power by the permanent members should be restricted to the provisions of Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Restoring law and order, economic recovery and simply bringing normalcy to Solomon Islands have been difficult challenges which my Government faced when we took office in December 2001. But having made the commitment to address these challenges through the Government’s strategic plan and priorities, we have engaged ourselves in a series of dialogues and consultations with our development partners. Our intentions are clear — we want outside assistance to restore law and order and economic recovery. Last July, with unanimous bipartisan support, the Solomon Islands National Parliament adopted enabling legislation that authorized outside assistance to restore law and to help the economy to recover. Following an explicit invitation by the Government, the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI) led by Australia, was assembled and deployed under the auspices of the Pacific Islands Forum’s Biketawa Declaration and in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Charter. I am pleased to inform you that the immediate impacts of RAMSI have been significant and positive. Security in terms of law and order has been re- established and the Government’s finances are beginning to stabilize. The course of action through RAMSI is the best option we took. It is a unique regional cooperative and partnership arrangement that is not merely limited to re-establishing and maintaining peace and security. It accords Solomon Islanders the best real opportunity to rebuild the country and address the deep-rooted problems we have had for years, including fighting corruption, restoring the principles of democracy, good governance and respect for fundamental human values and rejuvenating the social cohesiveness of our people. RAMSI’s work ahead will be challenging, but we assure RAMSI of every support and cooperation. The Government and the people of the Solomon Islands are equally committed to achieving this common objective. We deeply appreciate the overwhelming support of the Pacific Islands Forum countries, expressed through the Forum Declaration on the Solomon Islands, the Forum Foreign Affairs Ministerial Statement and their active contribution as Participating Countries in the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI). These countries are committed in their resolve to help a neighbour recover and rebuild. For this, I say “Tagio tumas for helpem fren blong iufala”. We also appreciate the support RAMSI has received from the wider international community, the Commonwealth, the United Nations, the European Union and other individual bilateral donor partners. We look forward to more active support to complement the important work RAMSI is doing in addressing the immediate and long-term objectives and plans. The Government’s National Economic Recovery and Development Plan of 2003 to 2005 will be formally presented to our development partners in November. Our immediate objectives are to restore and maintain law and order, to bring about macroeconomic Note: Solomon Islands pidgin for: “Thank you for helping your friend”. 16 stability and income growth, to restore full services in health and education and to re-establish the foundation for sustained economic growth and human development. While the immediate security situation and economic situation of the country are being addressed by RAMSI, the planned November meeting will provide the opportunity for the rest of our development partners to define their respective roles and assistance towards achieving these key objectives. As a least developed and island State, our economic, social and environmental vulnerabilities are major constraints to achieving sustainable economic growth and livelihoods. But we place our hope on greater international support and partnership to address these constraints in order to meaningfully and successfully implement our national development plans and such key policy outcomes as the 2000 Millennium Development Goals, the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and other programmes within the development agenda of the United Nations. Implementation of the 2000 Millennium Development Goals has been slow. We have, however, now incorporated those objectives into the Government’s Economic Recovery and Development Plan of 2003 to 2005, as priorities for national implementation. The Solomon Islands looks forward to participating fully in the review process of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. We envisage the outcome of the 2004 international meeting in Mauritius to be one that will focus on real commitments and practical implementations of the Programme at the national and regional levels. The Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) provides yet another opportunity and dimension for addressing the pressing problems facing poor countries. Implementation of this Programme at the national level has been slow. Real commitments from the international community to address our constraints, including capacity and indebtedness, have, however, not been forthcoming either. We commend the work of the High Representative of the Office for the Least Developed Countries in seeking international support and commitment to implement the Programme. We further call on the international community to seriously consider more resolute measures, such as cancellation of debts to highly indebted poor countries. As a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Solomon Islands is equally concerned that the Cancún meeting failed to yield positive results. Like other least developed countries, we have a key interest in the development dimension of the Doha Round, and we wish to re-echo what we stated in Cancún, namely that a new, equitable and fair trading system must take into account issues such as the difference in income, economic size, technological development and private sector capacities of countries. The Solomon Islands attaches great importance to regional cooperation. The communiqué of the leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum last August, which has been made available as an official document of the fifty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly, reflects the range of issues that directly concern us in the Pacific region. Those issues include climate change and sea-level rise, fisheries and the protection of our marine environment, trade, sustainable development and security-related issues. As small States with inherent geographical and structural disadvantages, our strength lies in pooling our resources to address these issues collectively. We call upon the United Nations to take more active part in regional initiatives. Allow me at this juncture to express once more our strong support for Taiwan to be admitted as a full member of the United Nations. It is an undeniable fact that under international law, Taiwan is a sovereign state. It has a transparent and democratic political system, a vibrant and progressive economy and a highly efficient social system, all of which are completely independent with no control whatsoever exercised by the People’s Republic of China. Taiwan is a willing partner, able to meet its international obligations under the Charter. Its contribution to the international community and the global economy are well known. Yet only a fortnight ago, this body once again denied the wishes of the people of Taiwan to be considered for membership in the United Nations. Over the years the international community has discriminated against its 23 million people. The delayed World Health Organization 17 assistance to Taiwan during the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome early this year is an example of how reasons of power politics prevail over timely humanitarian assistance. I have made the assertion that the United Nations must remain relevant to the changing political environment. It must live up to the fundamental values and principles enshrined in its Charter. It must remain a universal and all-inclusive Organization, capable of serving all its Members, however big or small, however powerful or weak and of whatever creed, religion or political belief. Every country must be treated with equal respect and attention. The United Nations must also live up to its principle of equality of all nations in this new millennium.  ﻿The fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly affords me the special privilege, honour and pleasure of congratulating you, Sir, on your assumption of the office of President of the General Assembly. As a distinguished son of our neighbouring island, Saint Lucia, you do great honour to your country and to the whole Caribbean Community family. I take great pride in what you, Sir, a fellow Foreign Minister and my dear friend, have accomplished, and trust that, under your astute leadership, this fifty-eighth session will chart the right course, which will enable the Organization to fulfil the expectations of mankind for a secure, peaceful and prosperous world. Who knoweth but that by some divine order you have come to the presidency of this body at such a time as this. Let me first express, on behalf of the Government and people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, deepest sympathy to Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the entire United Nations family on the loss of Sergio Vieira de Mello and other United Nations personnel in the terrorist attack in Baghdad. Those dedicated United Nations workers strived for peace and justice for the people of the world. They lived for that cause, and, tragically, they gave their lives for that cause. We share the pain of this loss and the bewilderment over it, and pay tribute to all those United Nations staff members who put duty before self in the service of mankind. My Government acknowledges with appreciation the sterling work being done in difficult conditions all over the developing world by United Nations agencies, from peacekeeping and the restoration of democracy to development cooperation and humanitarian aid. I also wish to single out for particular mention the United Nations Development Fund for Women and the United Nations Population Fund. We urge Member States to continue to give support and assistance to these organizations, which make such a difference, particularly in the lives of women and children, in the poorest sectors of the world. We have heard speaker after speaker, over the course of the past week, suggesting that the United Nations is in crisis. Many have proposed solutions for the rectification of this unhappy state of affairs. It is my Government’s contention that the General Assembly needs to retake its place as the central platform of the Organization, because it is the only truly democratic arm of the United Nations. In this regard, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines intends to participate fully in the ongoing debate on reform which will be led by you, Mr. President, and we are hopeful that, with your able guidance, some real progress can 2 be made in this fifty-eighth session. Of particular concern to small missions like my own is the volume and variety of work between September and December every year. The way the work of the General Assembly is designed makes it difficult for us to make the kind of contribution that we would wish for the effective and efficient operation of the Organization. The Secretary- General said in his report on the revitalization of the General Assembly: “The proliferation of meetings and official documents places excessive demands on both the Secretariat and Member States. Many smaller Member States now find it practically impossible to play a meaningful role in even the most crucial activities of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council”. (A/57/387, para. 23) If the work of the General Assembly could be redesigned so as to spread the work load more evenly throughout the calendar year, it would enable small missions like that of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to participate fully in the work of the Organization. The debate on the reform of the Security Council is fraught with many difficulties and challenges. It is my Government’s view that the simple enlargement of the representation on the Security Council may not by itself necessarily lead to greater democratization of that body. No matter how many reform theorems are advanced, the will has to come from the permanent members of the Council that wield the veto. My Government has already urged an increase in the membership of the Council, both permanent and non- permanent, but it seems to us that as long as the veto continues to exist, the Council will not be truly representative of the wishes of the States Members of this Organization and multinational diplomacy will be endangered. The Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines makes so bold as to say that the solution may also well lie in the removal of the power of veto, to allow for more democracy, greater participation, openness and transparency. Only then, perhaps, will this Organization regain its integrity and respect. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines cherishes the relationships that it enjoys with all countries, both large and small, represented here at the United Nations. The United Nations Charter confers that freedom of representation on all peace-loving and democratic States. Yet my country continues to be deeply troubled that Taiwan is still being excluded from this body. While we seek to make the United Nations more efficient and effective through much-needed reform, we can advance the cause and the call for reform by making the United Nations more inclusive through the admission to membership of Taiwan and its 23 million people, who have no voice in the United Nations. Taiwan is an exemplary global citizen that maintains friendly relations with almost every country in the world. We would wish for this Organization to be the catalyst that promotes constructive dialogue and friendly engagement so that the Taiwan situation can be resolved in a peaceful, just and equitable way to the benefit of the entire global family. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is proud to be a State party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC). We believe in the fundamental role that the ICC has to play in our collective quest for peace and the promotion of the rule of law and justice. We are determined to uphold its integrity. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is proud of our contribution to the emerging Caribbean civilization. Let me quote from a recent speech by our Prime Minister, The Honourable Ralph Gonsalves: “The reassembling of the African, Asiatic and European fragments forms the basis of our very Caribbean civilization itself, which is at once shaped and yet evolving. Fundamentally, too, our Caribbean civilization, like all civilizations, has been built on labour — the producers — and the contours of the society fashioned by the social organization of labour”. My small country has made the painful transformation from colonialism to independent democracy in 25 short years. Our people chose not the path leading to war and conflict, but rather opted for the highway of democracy, racial harmony and respect for human rights conducting us to peace, tranquillity and future prosperity. But we are hampered in our quest. My country, like others in the region, is in danger of losing an entire generation to the scourge of HIV/AIDS. We need the help of the international community in the fight against this dreaded disease for the preservation of our society. Our banana industry, which is the engine that drives our economy, is shortly to succumb to the greed 3 of certain multinational companies, with the active assistance of the World Trade Organization. Without the banana industry, whose doomsday rapidly approaches, our hardworking peasant farmers will become just another casualty of globalization. The European Union mandates that its sugar farmers get paid 50 euros per tonne — or five times the world market price. Their farmers then dump their product on the market, thus depressing prices for farmers elsewhere. So we may shortly have to bid farewell to the sugar industries of developing nations like Barbados, Jamaica, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Mozambique and Guatemala. The United States of America spends more than $3 billion dollars of its taxpayers’ money every year to subsidize its cotton growers. This, naturally, signals death to the cotton farmers of Burkina Faso, Benin, Mali, Chad and other developing nations. How can the developed world, which continues to subsidize its farmers and which touts globalization as the cure for all economic ills, continue defending the indefensible? Cancún, as we all now know, was an abysmal failure. We went there hoping to be led into the Promised Land — only to find ourselves lost and abandoned in the wilderness. We will continue our crusade for economic stability and democratic harmony in our country, but it is self-evident that we need the help of the developed part of the world in order to be viable. It will benefit no one if small countries like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are marginalized and left to flounder. We are a vulnerable country. The reasons why small island developing States are especially vulnerable are too well known to be repeated here. Our requests for special and differential treatment in the WTO are completely justified and, for the most part, largely ignored. My Government is cognizant of the fact that terrorism threatens us all. We are therefore fully engaged in the process of implementing Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) — a process which has stretched our limited resources. The oft-repeated promises of help in this process are proving to be, like so many other promises made within these hallowed halls, just that — promises. Yet we read with grave concern in the New York Times just last week that, between them, two of the giants of this Organization export arms worth nearly $20 billion every year — the majority, of course, to developing nations. What do arms do in developing nations? They are the fuel that feeds the flames of conflict and terrorism. Unless we can collectively find the courage and wisdom to tackle the problems of poverty, disease and despair, all the weapons in the world will not prevent the spread of terrorism. We need to move beyond using the United Nations as a talk shop and come together as responsible nations to tackle the root causes of terrorism. The security which the poorer nations of the world desire is obtained not through the force of arms, but in relief from burdensome debt, employment opportunities, shelter, food, clean water, a healthy environment and access to medical care and life-giving drugs. Despite its imperfections, the United Nations is the forum that gives us hope. Let us work together so that we can bequeath to our children and to our children’s children an Organization that can be used, in the words of the Secretary-General, to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, to establish the basic conditions for justice and the rule of law and to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. ﻿Allow me, Sir, to express my confidence that, under your able leadership, the general debate of the General Assembly at its fifty- eighth session will be successful and fruitful. At the turn of the millennium, the international community is living through changes of epic proportions. The process of transition to a new world order is facing unprecedented global threats: inter- ethnic and inter-confessional conflicts; international terrorism and organized crime; natural, man-made and humanitarian disasters; diseases and epidemics; and energy and environmental problems. These threats are in addition to globalization processes. All States now share in not only economic, technological, information and management issues, but also must face the numerous problems looming over humankind like a dark cloud. We in Kazakhstan believe that the time has come for the entire international community to join together to ensure broad and effective cooperation to address global threats. Today, it is becoming increasingly evident that States' involvement in globalization processes is an important factor in their economic prosperity. It is our conviction that there is no alternative to Kazakhstan's political and economic openness. In the past four years, our country has had one of the fastest economic growth rates in the world. Kazakhstan is leading the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) in main economic indicators. As a country with a market economy, Kazakhstan is an integral part of the global economy and an active participant in the globalization process. Its early admission to the World Trade Organization (WTO) is a top priority for Kazakhstan. Our country's efforts to create a comprehensive security system in Asia are well known. The process of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, initiated by President Nursultan Nazarbaev, serves this purpose and also provides for active cooperation between regional States in such an important area as the combating of international terrorism. Further support for this process by the United Nations and all of our partners will undoubtedly go a long way towards creating a climate of trust and good-neighbourly relations on the Asian continent. We are firmly committed to strengthening regional integration. Kazakhstan is actively involved in work within the Eurasian Economic Community. We have great expectations regarding the creation of a single economic space in the territories of four CIS countries. A significant contribution to counter- terrorism efforts and trade and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region could be made by the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. We are taking steps to develop cooperation with the Central Asian States. We intend to further promote the activities of the Economic Cooperation Organization. Kazakhstan backs United Nations action to strengthen the efforts of the international community in support of the dialogue between civilizations and religions. Kazakhstan, a unique State in terms of religious tolerance and inter-ethnic harmony, convened a congress of representatives of world religions and confessions, which, in the unanimous opinion of its participants, revealed a considerable peacemaking capacity of our country. An unprecedented attack against the United Nations office in Baghdad in August was the cruellest and largest-scale terrorist act in the entire history of our Organization. Together with the rest of the international community, Kazakhstan pays a special tribute to the late Sergio Vieira de Mello, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Iraq, and his colleagues. In our view, it is imperative to ensure that efforts to restore peace and stability in Iraq are carried out within the legal framework of the United Nations. The post-war reconstruction of the country and assistance to the Iraqi population should be provided only under the umbrella of the United Nations. Kazakhstan has already made a practical contribution to this process by deploying in Iraq a group of its military officers. The Iraqi crisis has become a serious test for the United Nations and has highlighted the urgent need to carry out the institutional reform of the Organization. 26 Kazakhstan reaffirms its commitment to the concept of a multipolar world as a political philosophy of modern international relations. At the same time, we do not reject unipolarity if its means joining together the efforts of all States in the world in a bid to avert global threats. Given its authority, universal character and unique experience, the United Nations continues to play an indispensable coordinating role in all global affairs. Its effectiveness, however, is dependent on our will, and we should, through joint efforts, reform the Organization with a view to democratizing international relations. In this context, it is essential to strengthen the role of the Security Council in the settlement of crisis situations and to provide it with appropriate mandates and means for conflict-prevention. We call for making it a more representative body by co-opting five new members, including Germany and Japan, as well as, on the basis of rotation, African, Asian and Latin American States. In order to facilitate consensus, which is greatly needed, new Security Council members might exercise the veto power, with certain exceptions, subject to further discussion in the high-level panel which the Secretary-General intends to establish. We believe that it will also be necessary to increase the number of non- permanent members, with due account being taken of the interests of the Asian region. In our view, coordination between the United Nations and regional organizations should be reinvigorated. In this context, Kazakhstan proposes to establish a permanent council of regional organizations under the auspices of the United Nations Secretary- General. It is time to combine, in practical terms, the efforts of the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions, the WTO and other leading economic and financial organizations to address poverty and social development. Kazakhstan believes that close attention should be paid to the proposal to establish an economic and social security council. Kazakhstan supports the Secretary-General's proposal to which I referred earlier to establish a high-level panel to examine current challenges to peace and security and to strengthen the United Nations system. We believe that issues of environmental protection in the framework of sustainable development should be considered as a key item on the United Nations agenda. In this context, President Nazarbaev's proposal, made last year in Johannesburg, to create a United Nations register of global environmental problems is especially relevant. Such a register would provide an opportunity to ensure a continuous exchange of information among United Nations Member States about trends in the global environmental situation, which is extremely important for the prevention of natural disasters. With regard to environmental issues, I would like, from this rostrum, once again to urge the international community to pay due attention to the search for practical solutions to the problems of the Aral Sea and the Semipalatinsk region. The current surge of terrorist acts throughout the world has made clear the transnational nature of terrorism. We must recognize that terrorism is well organized, financially self-sufficient and bolstered by powerful ideological dictums that are poisoning the consciousness of an ever-greater number of people. Against that background, the strengthening of the international legal framework of counter-terrorist cooperation is especially relevant. Kazakhstan supports the adoption, without further delay, of a comprehensive convention against international terrorism. Kazakhstan, which has drug routes running through its territory, calls for joint efforts by States to eliminate the evil of drug trafficking, which seriously erodes international security. Increasing drug production in Afghanistan demands special attention. In order to effectively counter the existing drug threat, it is necessary to apply an integrated approach on the basis of an agreed international strategy with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime playing a coordinating role. Kazakhstan has put forward an initiative regarding the establishment in Almaty of a Central Asian preventive diplomacy and conflict management centre and calls for its support. Such an institution would strengthen the United Nations activities in the region, which should be in the interests of all countries concerned. As a State that has voluntarily renounced its nuclear heritage, Kazakhstan is concerned about the continued proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The desire of a number of countries and some extremist organizations to possess nuclear weapons and other types of weapons of mass destruction poses a serious threat to global security. The well-known British writer Aldous Huxley was prophetic when he said: 27 Technological progress has merely provided us with more efficient means of going backwards.' Let us face the facts: today, the Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty and the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty do not work in practice. The main reason for this state of affairs is weakened international control. There are already 39 States in the world capable of producing a nuclear bomb or a nuclear device and at least 8 countries with significant nuclear capacity. In addition, there are at least another 4 countries whose non-nuclear status is highly questionable. The United Nations and its institutions should have the last word in solving the problem of nuclear non-proliferation. There is actually one way out: tighten control and improve transparency with regard to weapons development and testing. Existing international agreements in this area should be adapted to new realities. We can no longer accept the fact that the international community lacks effective means to discipline States violating non- proliferation regimes. Here we witness the absence of a single standard: some countries are punished by military force, while others are simply urged to give up their nuclear programmes. Kazakhstan has welcomed the initiative of the Group of Eight regarding a global partnership against the proliferation of nuclear materials and weapons of mass destruction, and it hopes for fruitful cooperation on the issue with that group of States. Our country considers it important to implement the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. The International Ministerial Conference on Transit Transport Cooperation, held in August in Almaty, has become a turning point in the efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. The Almaty Declaration and the Programme of Action adopted as an outcome of the Conference have laid a solid foundation for global partnership designed to put in place effective transit transport systems. Occupying a vast stretch of land in Eurasia, Kazakhstan is keenly interested in the practical implementation of the goals in these documents so that it can better tap its own transport potential. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Kazakhstan's commitment to the United Nations reform process in order to ensure a safer and more just world order. I fully share the Secretary-General's sense of urgency when it comes to structural changes within the United Nations. Indeed, history would be unforgiving to us if we were to squander an opportunity to reform our Organization. ﻿I should like at the outset to congratulate Mr. Hunte on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I am confident that his wisdom, as expressed in the policies of his friendly country, will promote constructive dialogue among Member States. In the final analysis, constructive dialogue remains the most valid means of addressing the complex problems currently facing the international community. It also gives me great pleasure to express to the Secretary-General and his staff our sincere appreciation for the effort they have made and the hardships they have endured in preserving the status of this Organization, and for not submitting to attempts to marginalize it in the international arena. It is with deep sorrow that we recall the great loss that the United Nations in general, and the friendly country of Brazil in particular, suffered as a result of the death of 8 Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues in the attack against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad last month. Many leaders and other representatives of the peoples of the world have gathered together at this international forum. That in itself proves beyond any doubt that this edifice of international legitimacy, and the resolutions that are adopted here, remain the most acceptable and respectable political recourse available to the various countries of the world, be they large or small, rich or poor. This is the only forum in which it would be extremely difficult to pass an arbitrary or pre- emptive war resolution that would result in the deaths of innocent civilians and the destruction of their property. Our world today faces daunting challenges that threaten the very foundation of the system of international peace and security. World leaders are therefore called upon to make a sincere and concerted effort and to demonstrate unwavering political will to commit themselves once again to the principles of international legitimacy. Giving precedence to the logic of force, violating the sovereignty of nations and taking actions that affect people's future compromise legitimacy and the principle of equality. Such policies represent a miscarriage of justice and an abrogation of the rule of law. They will open the door to widespread chaos in international relations and to crises that might be more dangerous than those we are currently facing. My country believes that the failure to reap the optimal benefits of the remarkable scientific and technological advances that humanity has made in the past two decades, coupled with the failure to achieve globalization with a civilized, human face, have alienated our peoples and heightened their apprehensions. It has obstructed the dialogue among civilizations and blocked further interaction with other cultures. Attempts by some centres of power in the world to manipulate the profound changes that have taken place in the international balance of power in pursuit of narrow national interests have added insult to injury. Cards have been shuffled and premises have been challenged. New concepts that are totally alien to the Charter, such as pre-emptive war and unilateral and illegitimate use of force, have been invented. In brief, that course of action has turned the clock back contrary to the superficial claims that new prospects were actually being opened. It is regrettable that in the twenty-first century some think tanks provide decision-makers with misleading or false information on the basis of which wars are waged outside the context of international legitimacy and blood is shed. Accusations are made that completely lack credibility, and unbridled claims are advanced in deliberate disregard of any logic developed by States and peoples throughout their history. Our region the cradle of the divine religions and the storehouse of two thirds of the world's oil reserves has been victimized more than any other, suffering greater injustice, being subjected to more disinformation campaigns and enduring greater use of force than any other region. It has to endure a great many external threats that continually lay waste its potential and its material and intellectual resources. No sooner had the peoples of the region begun to enjoy their freedom and independence than they found themselves once again faced with violent and unjust challenges challenges that are worse than any they have known throughout their history. The scourge of the Israeli occupation and continued Israeli aggression has been the main reason for the suffering of our region since the concept of international legitimacy first emerge in the international community. That is the concept on which the Organization was founded and which it came to epitomize. There is a profound paradox that has become the hallmark of our region. Israel was the first State to acquire its legitimacy through a resolution adopted by the United Nations, yet Israel was also the first State to ride roughshod over international legitimacy and it has continued to do so to the extent that Arabs and many others around the world feel as if Israel were a country above the law, one that enjoys the same veto power in the Security Council as the United States. It is regrettable that, after decades of occupation, bloodshed and contempt for international legitimacy, the representative of Israel has yet to realize that the road to peace lies in Israel's implementation of the 37 Security Council resolutions on the Arab-Israeli conflict and the nearly 600 General Assembly resolutions on the same subject, all of which have so far remained hostage to Israeli defiance of international law. 9 It behoved the Israeli Foreign Minister to explain in his statement to the international community in this Hall a few days ago the reasons for his country's refusal to implement this enormous number of resolutions of international legitimacy on the Middle East, instead of ignoring them, considering them null and void, items of the past. Are the Syrians, the Lebanese and the Palestinians unrealistic in their demands, or are they asking for the impossible when they stress that the only way out of the spiral of violence and bloodshed is through ending the Israeli occupation of the Arab territories occupied since June 1967, through negotiations to pursue a comprehensive, just and lasting peace on the basis of implementing United Nations resolutions and the Arab Summit peace initiative adopted at Beirut in 2002? The nagging core question here is how much longer Israel continue can to mislead some into believing that it is being victimized while it continues to occupy the territory of others by force, lay siege to Palestinians, destroy their homes, uproot their trees and assassinate them in their occupied land. When did the victims of occupation, settler colonialism and population transfer become outlaws and terrorists without a just cause, whose killing by fighter jets and tank fire became sanctioned under the pretext of self- defence? Some people in Washington have asked Why do they hate us?' Some authors with ulterior motives, or self-proclaimed pundits writing for reputable American newspapers or appearing on famous television programmes, volunteer their answers: They hate us because we have skyscrapers and noble values.' They choose to ignore that what is hated are the flawed policies, and not the country and its beautiful landmarks and cherished cultural and humanitarian values. The grave situation in Iraq has become a source of serious concern for our people, who are already plagued by Israeli occupation and continued threats against them. The situation is also a major cause of concern for the international community due to the threat it poses to international peace and security. The credibility of our Organization suffered greatly when the United Nations was unable to prevent the war against Iraq, a war waged outside the context of international legitimacy. For weeks and months, the Security Council was drawn into bitter strife, debating the war resolution prior to the war. The marathon report of the inspectors came out before the inspectors had accomplished the tasks entrusted to them. That situation notwithstanding, most of the members of the Council were able to stay the course, upholding international legitimacy and the Charter. The war was ultimately waged outside the framework of international legitimacy and those members chose not to its burden. Along with other neighbouring countries, Syria remained committed to the principles of international legitimacy and the Charter. In an unprecedented dÈmarche, our countries unanimously stressed their common concern that, should this war break out, its repercussions on regional security and international peace would be more devastating than the precarious situation prevailing in Iraq at the time. That said, Syria does not base its foreign policy on hatred, nor do we gloat over the misfortunes of others. We do not redefine our policy in response to threats either. The real challenge, we believe is how to extricate Iraq from this predicament and mobilize all efforts to win the battle for peace in post-war Iraq. Our country is directly concerned with developments in Iraq, given our historical and geographic ties and our common national loyalties to the Iraqi people. Syria affirms that finding the way out of this predicament does not lie in focusing on addressing the lack of security in Iraq, thereby increasing the number of troops and using force to bring about security, or on levelling accusations at neighbouring countries. The way out lies in an international commitment to the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq, setting a clear timetable for the withdrawal of the occupying forces from Iraq as soon as possible, drafting a constitution accepted by the Iraqis and establishing a Government that is representative of the Iraqi people, provided that the United Nations plays a pivotal role in Iraq in the various political, security and economic fields. This session of the Assembly has seen intensive discussion among the permanent and elected members of the Security Council on a new draft resolution on Iraq. We must draw attention here to the requirement that any draft resolution to be adopted by the Security Council should allay the misgivings of the Iraqi people in all their factions and affiliations. Therefore, the draft 10 resolution to be adopted by the Security Council must be brought to full maturity, so as to reassure the Iraqi people about their future and to guarantee their independence and sovereignty over their land and resources. The members of the Security Council should unanimously accept such a resolution, and it must enjoy the support of neighbouring States and the international community. Much has been said lately about the dangers of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction paid by countries that already have different types of such weapons. Some have even waged a war under the pretext of eliminating such weapons. As is already known, this danger is not confined to a particular region in the world, but can be found in many other regions. What is truly regrettable, however, is that some international quarters selectively choose to level false accusations against certain Arab and Islamic States, but not against others, while ignoring the Israeli arsenal of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Also ignored have been the repeated appeals by all the countries of the region, with the exception of Israel, to make the Middle East a region free of all weapons of mass destruction. Syria this year translated its words into action by submitting an integrated draft resolution to the Security Council, calling for declaring the Middle East a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction. It is not surprising, however, that those who led the media campaign against Syria stood in the way of adoption of the Syrian initiative. Syria is aware that its membership in the Security Council is temporary. However, we appeal to the international community to continue to support the Syrian initiative calling for the elimination of all weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East region. Syria has condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We have supported the Security Council's efforts to counter international terrorism throughout the time of our membership of the Council. Syria has also acceded to the relevant international conventions to combat terrorism, including the Arab Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism and the Convention of the Organization of the Islamic Conference on Combating International Terrorism. Both instruments define the crime of terrorism and distinguish between terrorism and the legitimate right of people under foreign occupation to resist occupation, in accordance with international law and the Charter of the United Nations. Syria, which is not pursuing any political agenda, believes that the international community's success in its overall battle against terrorism depends, to a large extent, on its success in addressing the root causes of terrorism, which are often found in poverty, ignorance and injustice. First and foremost, eliminating injustice requires an end to foreign occupation. As a member of the Security Council, Syria has contributed to all the deliberations on the situation in Africa. Syria has also presided over Council meetings that were dedicated in full to finding solutions to the predicaments of the friendly people of Africa. On more than one level, the Council has succeed in providing assistance to Liberia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, CÙte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Burundi, Angola and Sierra Leone. My county would like to express its satisfaction at the positive developments that have made it possible to find peaceful solutions to African questions, which have guaranteed the security, stability and territorial integrity of the African States concerned. Syria expresses its total solidarity with the African continent. We call upon industrialized States and others able to do so to provide assistance to the countries of that great continent. Syria also expresses its satisfaction with the progress made in the Sudanese peace talks, with the signing of the agreement on security and ceasefire arrangements, and ultimately with the comprehensive agreement that will end the conflict in that fraternal country in a way that would preserve the Sudan's unity and territorial integrity. We call for a total lifting of the embargo imposed on Cuba for decades outside the context of international legitimacy. We also welcome the international efforts to defuse tensions on the Korean peninsula, and support the Korean people's legitimate aspirations to unity and prosperity. Acting upon the collective responsibility of Member States to promote the role of this international Organization, Syria has actively participated in the deliberations on the reform of the United Nations. In that regard, the Millennium Declaration, which was 11 adopted three years ago, represented a good basis, all things considered, to bring about that reform. We hope that the reform will continue to be carried out in a comprehensive, transparent and non-selective manner. We believe that, in cooperation with the Secretariat, Member States have a primary role to play in the consultations on reform and in the decisions to be taken accordingly. In conclusion, our sense of the daunting responsibility that we must shoulder together as members of this international Organization should prompt us to raise some rhetorical questions. Do we have at our disposal a better option than to enhance the purposes and principles of the Charter and to pursue the goal of reforming the Organization for the establishment of a more just and more democratic international order? Should we not persevere to safeguard the milestone achievements of international law? Should we not aspire to a system that will not accommodate the arrogance of power nor compromise our fundamental principles? Should we not seek a system that pursues fruitful cooperation among States and encourages openness and a dialogue among civilizations epitomizing the essence of a creative human interaction? ﻿It gives my delegation immense satisfaction to see Mr. Julian Hunte in the high office of the presidency, not only because of his wide experience and his proven abilities, but also because Saint Lucia — a small country like Bhutan — has assumed leadership of the General Assembly at this critical juncture of its history. We are confident that, under his able leadership and guidance, our deliberations on the many important and challenging issues that confront our world today will be fruitful. Let me also take this opportunity to express our deep appreciation to Mr. Jan Kavan for his excellent stewardship of the fifty-seventh session. His presidency enhanced the esteem of the international community both for himself personally and for the Czech Republic. My delegation would like to pay a special tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dynamic leadership and his tireless efforts to revitalize the United Nations and to enable it to assume its rightful role at a very challenging time in our history. We have gathered in this magnificent Hall year after year, bound together by a common vision of a peaceful, prosperous and just world. The end of the cold war renewed our hope to bring to fruition our collective aspirations, enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The historic Millennium Summit ushered in a sense of optimism that we could bring about a world free from want and fear. Unfortunately, the horrific events of 11 September have shaken the very foundations of our nascent faith in our ability to deliver a new era of peace and prosperity. The situation in Iraq is a serious challenge to the international community. Three years ago, we stood united and confident about the prospects in the new millennium, providing a ray of hope for millions around the world. Today, sadly, we stand as a house divided, uncertain about the future and unsure whether we can rid the world of the vicious circle of conflict, poverty and fear that has plagued humankind for centuries. It is clear that international peace and security and the eradication of poverty remain the most pressing challenges confronting the international community. What must be recognized is the undeniable, but often overlooked, fact that those overarching goals are interlinked and cannot be achieved in isolation. There can be no prosperity without peace and security. At the same time, peace and security cannot be sustained if billions are deprived of the basic necessities of life. Our collective resolve to combat the menace of terrorism must be matched with an equal commitment 2 to eradicate the scourge of poverty, which afflicts more than half of the world’s population. We welcome the President’s intention to focus the Assembly’s efforts on implementation of the outcomes of United Nations summits and conferences, including the Millennium Development Goals. The realization of a new economic order that is inclusive, equitable and sustainable is an imperative that must be pursued with renewed focus and resolve. The Millennium Declaration provides a clear set of targets and steps to be undertaken to achieve them. The Monterrey Consensus, the Doha Development Agenda and the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development provided further impetus towards the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. Yet 33 countries that together account for 26 per cent of the world’s population are reported to be off track on more than half of the Goals. The lack of progress so far is indeed disconcerting. While emphasizing the need to accelerate the implementation of commitments made by both developed and developing countries at various international conferences, my delegation would like to highlight the critical need for adequate financing mechanisms through trade, investment and official development assistance. In particular, my delegation hopes that the special needs and vulnerabilities of the least developing countries, of the landlocked developing countries and of the small island developing States will be comprehensively addressed, as called for in the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries, in the Almaty Declaration and in the Barbados Plan of Action, respectively. Of the 33 countries that are off track in achieving the Millennium Development Goals, 23 are in sub- Saharan Africa, highlighting the need for special attention to Africa. My delegation calls on the international community to lend its full support to the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development. International support is particularly crucial for countries emerging from conflicts, for without the rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure, progress in peacemaking cannot be sustained. In that context, we hope that the international community will also provide the necessary support to the peoples of Afghanistan and Iraq as they endeavour to rebuild their nations under the most trying circumstances. Every Member State has the responsibility to eradicate poverty and create an enabling environment for peace and security. It is in the mutual interest of all nations, small or large, developed or developing, to collectively promote global prosperity and peaceful coexistence.  ﻿The past two years have been years of near apocalyptic ordeal for the world and this great Organization. In rapid succession, the world and this Organization have been caught in what can only be described as a crossfire of terrorism, violence and wars. The uncertainties resulting from these situations are yet to be dispelled. Much of the world is still in the dark, groping for a glimpse of what the future direction of international relations and this Organization will be. The recent unwarranted attacks against the United Nations headquarters and personnel in Baghdad, Iraq, should be roundly condemned. They should not break the will of this Organization to continue to provide humanitarian assistance and relief to the people of Iraq. We in Ghana still believe in the United Nations as the global repository of humankind’s aspiration. We believe that the problems of the twenty-first century cannot be addressed without universal commitment to multilateralism spearheaded by the United Nations. We recommend, however, that fairness, firmness, humanity and a sense of balance must characterize United Nations responses to all events of a similar nature, irrespective of where such events occur, if this Organization is to enhance its credibility and ensure its relevance in a sustained manner. Living in the West African subregion, which has experienced more than its fair share of conflicts, my countrymen are familiar with the negative effects of conflicts, and the pain of insecurity. They also know the importance of multilateral efforts in conflict management. Hence, for more than 40 years, Ghana has demonstrated commitment to international conflict prevention and resolution and peacekeeping missions around the world, under the auspices of the United Nations, and now the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). The latest is the country’s participation in the ECOWAS Peace Force (ECOFORCE), in Côte d’Ivoire and Liberia. Africa accepts its responsibility for resolving the continent’s internal conflicts. Today, there is no doubt that the nations of Africa are rising to this challenge. But there is also no doubt that the continent suffers massive shortcomings in financing and technological resources. This is why the international community, especially the United Nations, under its Charter obligations, must continue to support Africa in its efforts to maintain peace. It is therefore hoped that Security Council consideration of Africa’s conflicts will yield adequate, practical and timely support to resolve them. In my current capacity as Chairman of ECOWAS, I wish to acknowledge the valuable support of the various Governments as well as international organizations, which have contributed to the efforts of the Community to achieve peace and stabilize the subregion. With this help, the Community is succeeding in resolving conflicts that have engulfed Côte d’Ivoire, Liberia, Sierra Leone and other nations. All of them are now, thankfully, on the way to stability and normality. I therefore seize this opportunity to express the appreciation of the Community and myself to France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, as well as the European Union and the United Nations, under the leadership of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to name just a few of those who have provided substantial assistance. While ECOWAS fully appreciates the support of our friends, it must nevertheless appeal for some more resources from this Organization and the international community to enable it to consolidate the peace and normalization process. It might be necessary to stress that, in some instances within the subregion, post- conflict peace-building efforts have failed, mainly because the problems involved were not addressed in a systematic, sustained and holistic manner. In the main, such problems include the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of combatants into regular society. ECOWAS therefore appeals for the assistance needed for their effective management. Yet another serious continuing menace is the prevalent illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in the subregion. In this regard, we note the commendable progress made by the international community in addressing this menace through the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons. The truth, however, is that more vigorous and resourceful effort is needed to succeed. The Human Development Report 2003 exposes the tragedy that besets sub-Saharan Africa, and this is the most suitable platform to highlight it. The report states that the rest of the world has left sub-Saharan Africa behind, and that it will take 150 years for our region to achieve the Millennium Development Goals that Member States of this Organization had hoped to achieve by 2015. The report indicates that: “Unless things improve, it would take sub-Saharan Africa until 2129 to achieve universal primary education, until 2147” — more than a century later than hoped — “to halve extreme poverty, and until 2165 to cut child mortality by two thirds. For hunger, no date can be set because the region’s situation continues to worsen.” This is the century of the global village. How can sub-Saharan Africa, with more than 400 million people, be condemned to such a fate? Clearly, this must not be acceptable for the globalization process. This is why the international community, particularly the industrialized nations, should appreciate the urgency of the situation and offer commensurate partnership and assistance to the African Union and its initiative, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), to relaunch the continent’s development. The current leadership of the continent has resolved to nurture Africa back to prosperity within the framework of the NEPAD. Good governance — characterized by democratic constitutional rule; the rule of law; respect for human rights and property rights; accountable government and its recognition and intercourse with civil organizations; freedom of expression; private-sector promotion; religious tolerance; eradication of illiteracy; and promotion of gender balance and children’s rights — is fast becoming the order of the day throughout Africa. Indeed, good governance is an article of faith of the African Union today. Economically, the African Union is calling for partnerships, both within and outside the continent, to pool capital, technological and managerial ideas, and also markets, to promote and fast track the development of Africa into the mainstream of the global market. At this stage, may I be permitted to express some reservations on the topical issue of world trade? It must be recognized that even as globalization is engulfing all the corners of the world, in such a manner that no part can opt out, free trade and competition, which are the hallmarks of the global market, can prove inimical and disastrous to most nations, particularly the developing and least developed countries. This will be so unless the process of globalization is properly and sensitively managed. The reality of the situation is that most of the least developed countries are in Africa, especially sub- Saharan Africa. At the current stage of development, most of Africa is limited to exporting raw minerals and agricultural commodities. This means that unless the developed parts of the world remove subsidies for their agricultural and mineral sectors, Africa cannot be competitive. Indeed, Africa’s equivalent sectors may be destroyed with dumping from the advanced parts of the world. It is also being seriously suggested that, even as the World Trade Organization (WTO) recognizes that Africa must be accorded a status of transition, or a special status for a carefully calculated period, the WTO does not seem to be propagating this necessity enough to give practical effect to it. The failure of Cancún bears witness to this. The World Trade Organization must, therefore, do its homework well to carry the poor nations with it. A combination of trade and aid must be used to assist the African Union and its component nations and to nurture their economies into competitive resourcefulness. This is the way to empower Africa and get it into the mainstream of the world market, without adding to the hardships of the already marginalized people of the continent. This being a session devoted to the consideration of the biennial budget for 2004-2005, we hope that all Member States will work together positively to ensure that adequate funding is provided for all prioritized mandates for implementation, including those for the development and stability of Africa. In this regard, we welcome the recent establishment of the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa to the Secretary-General, and look forward to the positive contribution which the Office will make to meet the numerous challenges on the continent. My delegation is happy with the Secretary- General’s renewed efforts to reform aspects of this Organization’s operations and appreciates his challenge to Member States to make a bold effort towards this end. In this regard, we assure him of our full support during this session for the adoption and implementation of his renewed vision, and we endorse his report entitled “Strengthening the United Nations: an agenda for further change” (A/57/387 and Corr.1). We also wish to reiterate the imperative need for the Security Council to be reformed, in order to ensure that it carries out its Charter obligations more effectively in the full confidence of Member States. In this regard, we subscribe wholly to the Non-Aligned Movement’s position on the question of an increase in the membership of the Security Council. We also 12 endorse Africa’s claim to have at least two permanent seats. We sincerely hope that the Organization will be empowered to assume a central role in the current efforts to normalize the situation in the Middle East, especially in Iraq and Palestine. The strengthening of the Organization to provide this leadership will reinvigorate it to survive this century and promote the cause of peace and security in the world. Let me conclude by thanking your predecessor for having ably guided the deliberations of the General Assembly through what was by all accounts a particularly difficult year. We are also happy to see you in the Presidency. We are confident that the General Assembly could not be in more competent hands and we wish you well. I thank you and may God bless us all.  ﻿Allow me at the outset to offer Mr. Julian Hunte my warm congratulations on his election as President. We are confident that he will guide our deliberations during this fifty-eighth session to a productive conclusion. Let me also express my deep appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his effective guidance of the work of the Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. Four years ago Kiribati joined the United Nations as one of its youngest Member States. Our membership of the United Nations was an affirmation of our faith in and support for the noble principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Since then, events have occurred to test the resolve of this Organization. Indeed, the United Nations has faced many challenges. The recent brutal and calculated attack on United Nations personnel in Baghdad, which resulted in a tragic loss of life and many injuries, are to be condemned. We mourn the loss of the Secretary-General’s senior representative, Sergio Vieira de Mello, and the others who perished in the attacks. Kiribati commends the Secretary-General for his unwavering determination to ensure that the United Nations continues to perform the role we expect of it in the international arena. We have followed with increasing alarm the globalization of terror. No longer can we in the Pacific claim immunity from terrorism. The consequences of terrorist acts are abhorrent. Kiribati condemns terrorism and all acts of terror directed against innocent people. We cannot condone acts of terror, regardless of their purported objective. Even though we have not been, and may never be, directly subjected to horrors such as that of 11 September 2001 and the terrorist acts in Riyadh, Jakarta and Baghdad, we realize that terrorism knows no boundaries or limitations. It is a crime against humanity and against the international community as a whole, and we must therefore work collectively to defeat it. To do so will require an international response backed by concerted regional and national efforts. At the international level, Kiribati fully supports the relevant Security Council resolutions against terrorism. The Pacific Islands Forum is actively addressing security issues at the regional level. Despite financial constraints, Kiribati is pleased to have contributed, within the framework of the 2000 Biketawa Declaration, police personnel to the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands. My Government decided to contribute to that initiative because of our firm belief in the strength of regional cooperation. The Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands is a clear demonstration of the ability of Pacific Island Forum member countries to respond swiftly and cooperatively to requests from fellow member countries for support in restoring law and order. While Kiribati appreciates the recognition of this regional initiative by the United Nations, we hope and urge that further assistance will be forthcoming to strengthen and ensure the success of this undertaking. At the national level, Kiribati has introduced various bills and taken other measures as part of its effort to address security challenges. This is an ongoing process that will progress at a pace dictated by our financial situation, personnel and other constraints. We are confident that, given our commitment, and with appropriate assistance from the international community, we will in time achieve our goals. Kiribati supports the idea that terrorism must be eliminated. We must all fight against those who reject dialogue as a means of securing their objectives and instead resort to terror. We would like to associate ourselves with the many speakers who advocate that 18 we exercise restraint. We must ensure that in our fight against terrorism we continue to uphold the principles that are the cornerstones of this esteemed body — the principles that we cherish and in which we firmly believe. Kiribati fully supports efforts to address the security challenges facing the world today. We are, however, mindful that the magnitude of the security challenges facing Member States differs. In the case of Kiribati there are many challenges and problems that threaten our people and country. Kiribati is one of the least developed countries and is also a small island developing State located in the middle of the Pacific ocean. Our remoteness and insularity, narrow economic base, small population and high population growth rate are factors that we have to accept. Being a small island developing States poses many challenges to national efforts in terms of sustainable development and beneficial integration into the world economy. These unique characteristics warrant special consideration for sustained and enhanced cooperation from development partners. Kiribati has benefited, and continues to benefit, from the various programmes offered through the many United Nations agencies. In acknowledging with gratitude the support extended by the United Nations in this regard, I would also like to record our appreciation to our development partners for their continuing support for our efforts at increasing and enhancing the equitable distribution of development benefits to our peoples. We realize that a lot more needs to be done. Kiribati has a vast exclusive economic zone rich in fisheries and marine resources. We are actively promoting the sustainable exploitation of these resources, and consider the establishment of an onshore fish processing facility to be an appropriate development. Kiribati comprises low-lying coral atolls and is therefore very vulnerable to climate change, climate variability and sea-level rise. This is an issue of high priority for us, as it is for other low-lying countries. It is also an issue that requires an international response. Political commitment and a high level of cooperation by the international community are called for in addressing this challenge. There is a need for immediate reductions in and limits on greenhouse gas emissions to bring them into line with the objective of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We call upon the major emitters of greenhouse gases to ratify the Kyoto Protocol in a timely manner. We recognize the need to develop and implement appropriate adaptation response measures, and call for support in this respect from international sources, including the Global Environment Facility. International support will similarly be required in the joint implementation of the vulnerability and adaptation Pacific type 2 initiatives, launched last year at the World Summit on Sustainable Development. We look forward to the 2004 international meeting to be held in Mauritius. This will provide a valuable opportunity to the international community to take stock of what has happened since Rio and Barbados. We certainly hope that Mauritius will provide a road map of concrete and practical actions, which are required to achieve the objectives of the Programme of Action. While we accept primary responsibility for our own development, we also realize that the achievement of such aspirations will be beyond our reach if we have to work alone. We require the assistance of our partners in development. These have been turbulent times for the United Nations. Recent events have brought to the fore the need for the United Nations to adapt. The rapidly changing global environment in which the United Nations operates demands adaptations if the Organization is to continue to be of relevance to Member States. Kiribati joins previous speakers in welcoming the reform initiatives outlined by the Secretary-General. We realize that Member States must direct and actively support the adaptation process. The direction and support thus accorded to the United Nations will enable it to become more responsive to the aspirations of its Member States and those of the communities and peoples they represent. Kiribati fully supports the view that the United Nations and its major organs should be more representative and more democratic in order to reflect the expanded membership of the Organization. The rules so appropriate to situations in the 1940s cannot be 19 applied practically and effectively in the twenty-first century. To conclude, we are faced with new challenges. We must commit ourselves to tackling these emerging challenges meaningfully. We must therefore be ready to introduce and accept changes appropriate to our times.  ﻿I should like first of all to express my heartiest congratulations to Mr. Julian Hunte on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I have no doubt that, under his able stewardship, we will be able to achieve a great deal during this important session. I should also like to thank Mr. Jan Kavan for his dedication and hard work during the last session. The past year has witnessed the fall of a decades- long dictatorship in Iraq. The Iraqi people have regained their freedom and are now embarking upon the arduous process of rebuilding their nation. However, the auspicious political changes brought on in Iraq will hold real meaning for the Iraqi people and the regional order only once they are able to enjoy the social economic benefits of a broadly based functional democratic Government. To that end, the Republic of Korea is now playing its part in the process of rehabilitation and reconstruction. 38 The situation in today's Iraq is, however, less than promising. The recent surge of terror and chaos has served as a sobering reminder that winning the war does not necessarily mean winning peace. As the terrorist attack against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad last month so vividly demonstrated, the prevalence of violence and terrorism poses the most pressing challenge that Iraq has to overcome in building a democratic, peaceful and prosperous nation. The Republic of Korea strongly condemns the atrocious act of terrorism against United Nations personnel who came to Iraq for the sole purpose of assisting the Iraqi people. We recommend that the Secretary-General take the necessary steps to ensure the safety and security of the United Nations and its associated personnel, as well as international humanitarian workers in Iraq, as they carry out their noble duties. Despite the persistence of conflict and turmoil, the international community has continued during the past year to make progress in strengthening the universal values of human rights and democracy. The spread of universal values in turn strengthens the foundation for peace and prosperity around the world. However, a world in which all peoples enjoy their full rights and dignity is far from being a reality. We need to make concerted efforts to promote human dignity as the guiding precept of the world community. The Republic of Korea remains firmly committed to international efforts to advance democracy around the world. In this vein, Seoul hosted the Second Ministerial Conference of the Community of Democracies in November last year, as well as the Third Global Forum on Fighting Corruption and Safeguarding Integrity in May this year. We will continue to actively participate in efforts to promote human rights, the rule of law and good governance. The challenges facing us include fighting poverty and achieving sustainable development. Poverty undermines human dignity. It provides fertile ground for conflict and dictatorship. The need for international cooperation in this area has never been greater. It is therefore tremendously important to achieve the goals set at last year's International Conference on Financing for Development and the World Summit on Sustainable Development. The international community must exercise collective wisdom to attain tangible results in working toward these goals. In recent years, the growing number of people moving freely across borders has alerted us to the increasing threats to public health. As demonstrated by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome epidemic, infectious diseases have become a global issue from which no country is immune. It is timely and fitting that a high-level meeting was held earlier this week on the follow-up to the outcome of the twenty-sixth special session of the General Assembly on HIV/AIDS. In our common fight against infectious diseases, I would like to call your attention to the International Vaccine Institute, which has been headquartered in Seoul since 1997. This unique international organization, devoted to the development of new vaccines needed in developing countries, awaits the support of the international community as it continues to expand its activities to promote public health for the less privileged of the world. On the global security front, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and its potentially devastating linkage to terrorism loom as a grave and perilous threat. The global nuclear non- proliferation regime based on the Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty (NPT) currently faces unprecedented challenges. How we deal with these challenges will have a decisive bearing on the future of not only the non- proliferation regime, but also the international security environment as a whole. Recent cases have proven that the existing nuclear non-proliferation regime has inherent limitations when it comes to dealing with determined proliferators. While reiterating the importance of achieving the universality of the NPT and strengthening the safeguards system through universal adherence to the Additional Protocol to the Safeguards Agreements of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), we underscore the need to close the loopholes in the current regime. In this regard, we stress the vital role of bilateral, multilateral and regional approaches among countries sharing common security interests in the reinforcement and supplementing of the NPT. The role of export control arrangements among potential suppliers of relevant components and technologies for WMD is also crucial. 39 To that end, my Government hosted a plenary meeting of the Nuclear Suppliers Group last May and will also host a plenary meeting of the Missile Technology Control Regime next year. We further believe that the nuclear-weapon States can do a great service to the cause of non-proliferation by complying with their share of the nuclear disarmament obligations under the NPT and by working harder to achieve the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The security of North-East Asia is currently threatened by the possibility of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea's nuclear programme not only poses a direct challenge to the security of the Korean peninsula, but also endangers peace and stability in North-East Asia and beyond. The Republic of Korea is strongly committed to the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, and our position on the nuclear issue in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea remains clear and consistent. First, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea must dismantle its nuclear programme in a complete, irreversible and verifiable manner. Secondly, the nuclear issue with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea must be resolved in a peaceful and diplomatic manner. The heightening of military tension on the Korean peninsula will be detrimental to all of the countries in the region. Fifty years after the end of the Korean War, our people still feel the pain. We must not allow such a tragedy ever to be repeated. By opting to combine efforts to resolve this matter peacefully and diplomatically, the international community has shown great wisdom in dealing with this pressing and important matter. These efforts were culminated in the six-party talks held in Beijing last month. Given the complexity of the issue, the multilateral talks were significant, in that all participants were able to reach consensus on certain principles that will guide their future discussions. Among these principles my Government welcomes, in particular, the consensus on the necessity of both the de-nuclearization of the peninsula and a peaceful resolution through dialogue. The tasks ahead will be to maintain the momentum of dialogue and to refine these agreed principles in greater detail. There will indeed be difficulties in bridging the differences at future talks. To overcome these obstacles a spirit of cooperation must prevail, and any action that may aggravate the situation must be avoided. The success of the six-party talks would not only bring the resolution of the nuclear issue regarding the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, but should also lead to the process of creating a durable peace on the Korean peninsula. More than 10 years after the end of the cold war, the peninsula remains the last theatre of the cold war, with 1.5 million heavily armed troops still pointing guns across the demilitarized zone (DMZ) that separates the Republic of Korea in the south and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the north. It is time for this 50-year stand-off to give way to reconciliation and cooperation. This process should be cautiously managed and occur peacefully and gradually. In this regard, I would like to draw on lessons from the history of Europe that could be helpful in defining the future of inter-Korean relations. As we all know, in the century leading up to the Second World War, relations between France and Germany were characterized by the hostilities and confrontation of three major wars. After the Second World War, however, the countries of Europe joined forces to help the two rivals settle their differences and to pursue peace and common prosperity through a network of economic interdependence. Thanks to the vision of Jean Monnet and Robert Schuman, the European Coal and Steel Community came into being and has since developed and expanded to become the unprecedented, multilateral institution of integration known today as the European Union. To be sure, the case of the Korean Peninsula is different from that of Europe. Nevertheless, as in the case of Europe, I believe that a resolution to the political conflict between the two sides of Korea could be facilitated by economic interdependence. President Roh Moo-hyun's policy toward the North, aptly termed the policy for peace and prosperity, is directly aimed at resolving the political confrontation between the South and North through the deepening of 40 inter-Korean economic interdependence and with the cooperation of the international community. However, the nuclear programme of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea has emerged as the most serious challenge to the process of consolidating peace and prosperity on the Korean Peninsula. We in the Republic of Korea sincerely hope that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea will realize that it simply cannot achieve economic prosperity without fully abandoning its intentions to develop nuclear weapons. We note that all participants at the Beijing six- party talks acknowledged the need to address the security concerns of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and we ask the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to make a wise and far-reaching decision in this regard. We strongly hope that the security concerns of the North, along with the nuclear issue, will be dealt with in more detail at the next six- party talks. Once the Democratic People's Republic of Korea abandons its nuclear weapon programme and seizes the opportunity offered by the six-party talks to embark on a path towards peace and prosperity, my Government will take further steps towards bold inter-Korean economic cooperation. The international community will also provide necessary humanitarian and economic assistance. The positive impact of such cooperation and assistance will resound not only on the Peninsula but throughout the region and beyond. In conclusion, the abandonment by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea of its nuclear programme through the six-party talks and the subsequent start of the peace process on the Korean Peninsula will present an unprecedented opportunity to dramatically enhance international relations in East Asia. In this regard, we look forward to the support of all Member States of the United Nations for the success of the six-party talks and the establishment of a lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula. The United Nations has much work to do in the twenty-first century. The global body is our greatest hope in our common efforts to make the world safer and more prosperous, for us and for future generations. I sincerely hope to see the United Nations renew itself and achieve its goals through continuous reform that will make it more effective and democratic. The Republic of Korea pledges its abiding support to the work of the United Nations in its noble mission for mankind as a whole. ﻿I should like to start by extending our warmest congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, as well as our full support. I also wish to pay tribute to Mr. Jan Kavan, the President of the General Assembly at its fifty- seventh session. The memory of the many innocent people who lost their lives during the horrors of 11 September, and that of many other victims of terror all over the world, including in my country, are still very fresh in our minds today. We also mourn the painful loss of our United Nations colleagues. They were working in the service of the international community to secure peace and to uphold human dignity in Baghdad. The loss of Sergio Vieira de Mello was particularly tragic for us, as his visit to Ankara two weeks before his tragic death unfortunately turned out to be his last. Terrorism is a crime against humanity. We are duty-bound to eradicate that evil from the face of the Earth, and soon. We must also not forget that there are other major challenges that remain to be addressed, namely, poverty, illiteracy, organized crime, the problem of narcotics, ecological disasters, epidemics such as AIDS, the issue of refugees, the illegal trade in human beings, gender inequality, corruption, racism and xenophobia, among others. In the new global security environment, there is a clear and pressing need to strengthen international organizations and institutions. The United Nations is at the top of that list. The many challenges facing the world today underline the central role of the United Nations, as has been highlighted so eloquently by the Secretary-General. The efforts to adapt this unique Organization to the realities of today’s international life should be resolutely pursued. The world needs a more representative, effective and efficient United Nations. In close cooperation with the United Nations, Turkey has accumulated vast experience over the years in the areas of regional cooperation, peacekeeping and conflict prevention. We have also shown a strong will to solve our bilateral foreign policy problems. Today we have very good relations with some neighbouring countries with which we experienced difficulties in the recent past. We are also doing our best to contribute to the solution of problems in the Middle East, the Balkans and the Caucasus. In order to promote harmony among civilizations, we convened a meeting last year in Istanbul between the European Union and the countries of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC). Next year, both the NATO summit and the OIC’s ministerial meeting will be held in that city. My Government’s reforms at home reflect a sustained effort to promote democracy, human rights, 5 the rule of law, civil society, good governance, accountability and gender equality to the highest standards set by the United Nations and the European Union. The results show that national and spiritual values can be in perfect harmony with contemporary living standards. Integration with the world is not possible without bringing our values and traditions into harmony with modernity. It is on the strength of that increasingly relevant Turkish experience and on the strength of the richness of our ties with the international community that Turkey has decided to present its candidature for a seat in the Security Council for the years 2009-2010. The situation in the Middle East will remain of crucial significance for the evolution of the international environment for some time to come. We do not believe that the Middle East is condemned to eternal strife and suffering. This is one cradle of civilization that had enjoyed peace and prosperity for centuries. That is why we believe that it is feasible today to transform the Middle East into a region of security, cooperation and prosperity. There is an urgent need today for a fresh start in the region. The situation in Iraq and the Arab-Israeli conflict are at the core of efforts to bring stability to the region. The events of this year have brought Iraq to the beginning of a new era. All of us need to help the Iraqi nation in its formidable task of building a united, free, democratic and prosperous future. It is therefore highly important for the Security Council to agree on a mandate responsive to the needs of stabilization and reconstruction. Iraq is our close neighbour. That country’s future and the future of the region’s stability are inter-linked. In the Middle East we are again witnessing a cycle of terror and violence that is taking hostage all efforts towards peace. We view the restoration of the channels of communication and dialogue between Palestinians and Israelis as the most urgent task at hand. We believe that sending the elected President of the Palestinian National Authority into exile cannot serve any good purpose. We call upon the Israeli Government to review its position. At the same time, we urge the Palestinian side to make every effort to prevent further terrorist attacks. Turkey has close ties with both Israelis and Palestinians. We remain ready to contribute to the implementation of the road map, to which we believe there is no alternative. We are also willing to contribute to the improvement of the security environment as needed, and to the alleviation of the harsh living conditions of Palestinians. In order to achieve progress, resources have to be utilized rationally and to the benefit of the people, as the Iraqi case has shown. The need for reform is not a novelty in the Middle East. What may be new is the growing recognition that progress is dependent on political and social factors, as well as on economic ones. Gradual steps towards more representative and accountable structures are being taken by a number of countries in the Middle East. They deserve the encouragement of the international community. The world needs the elimination of weapons of mass destruction. It does not need them to proliferate. The inherent logic of that argument has been recognized by the community of nations that have adhered to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We strongly support the efforts aimed at increasing membership in non-proliferation agreements and regimes. My country’s regional policies are shaped by our desire to achieve durable peace and greater cooperation in our neighbourhood. I have already outlined our approach with regard to the Middle East. The Balkans, which is to our west, was in turmoil until recently. That region has come to enjoy relative peace and stability in the past two years. International organizations, notably NATO, the European Union, the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, played a major role in that turnaround. However, the situation in certain parts of the region should continue to be monitored on an ongoing basis, as it is a potential source of destabilization. We are determined to further enhance our relations with Greece within the current process of constructive dialogue. We are pleased with the progress achieved so far, as highlighted by my Greek colleague, Mr. Papandreou, in the statement he made this morning. We have already covered considerable ground. We are convinced that the ongoing dialogue and the resulting atmosphere of mutual confidence will serve the interests of both Turkey and Greece. Turkey sincerely desires a lasting political settlement establishing a new partnership in Cyprus. This issue has been with us since 1963. Attempts to distort the facts in the island will not help efforts aimed 6 at a comprehensive settlement. We continue to support the good offices mission of the Secretary-General. A new partnership in Cyprus should be based on a compromise between Turkish and Greek Cypriots and on equal status. Furthermore, a settlement should preserve the bizonal character of the island and ensure the security of the Turkish Cypriot people. At the present stage of the situation in Cyprus it is necessary to create a basis for substantive negotiations. The opportunity created by President Denktas’ latest proposals, which are designed to overcome the lack of confidence between the two sides, should be seized. Indeed, the Greek Cypriot side, instead of trying to take advantage of the prospect of its unilateral accession to the European Union, should act in a spirit of goodwill and contribute to the negotiating process. All embargoes and restrictions imposed upon the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus should be lifted as a matter of priority. The Caucasus is another strategically important area of great interest to Turkey. The long-standing conflicts there must end, and good-neighbourly relations and regional cooperation should be given a real chance to flourish. The problems of Nagorny Karabakh and Abkhazia still endanger peace and stability in the entire region. Turkey expects Armenia to fully comply with the relevant United Nations resolutions in order to find a prompt and just solution to the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. The peaceful settlement of this conflict will contribute to the normalization of Turkish-Armenian relations and to regional cooperation. As regards the Abkhazian conflict, Turkey believes that a peaceful settlement should be reached within the context of the territorial integrity, sovereignty and political unity of Georgia. Close historical and cultural bonds with Central Asia constitute one of the pillars of our Eurasian vision. We have developed mutually beneficial bilateral relations with the Central Asian States since their independence. We should make substantial efforts to improve regional stability and security and continue to support those States with a view to their further integration into the international community. We all know that the security of Central Asia is inseparable from global security. Traditionally a close friend of Afghanistan, Turkey has contributed for many years to the rehabilitation of that country. We are pleased that the Bonn process has so far been implemented successfully, despite numerous difficulties. We commend the performance of the Transitional Administration in this respect. The success of the Bonn process will depend to a large extent on greater support from the international community. We firmly believe that it will not be possible to establish global stability unless peace, security, democracy and sustainable development are promoted in Africa. Recent trends in the management of crises in Africa, as well as the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, give us fresh hope in this regard. In conclusion, I should like to stress that Turkey is determined to remain a major contributor to peace, security and stability in our region and beyond. Turkey pursues a multidimensional foreign policy that is active in various regions. We believe in the vital role of the United Nations and its increased relevance in the present international environment, and we are committed to promoting the effectiveness of our Organization. ﻿Allow me at the outset to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte on his well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly. We are convinced that his well-known personal and professional qualities will allow him to lead our work to full success. We particularly welcome the fact that a fraternal Caribbean country should hold so high a position. We trust that your election will shed light on the role of the smaller nations in this Organization and will allow us to consider the challenges that small economies face. Today, once again, the international community is gathered at the United Nations to consider the most serious problems afflicting mankind and to design specific measures to resolve them. In so doing, we must recall the essential purpose of this session attaining peace, justice and well-being for each and very individual on this planet. Indeed, the human right to peace informs, nourishes and justifies all other basic rights and constitutes the very essence of the purposes and principles of the United Nations. Basic individual freedoms, political, social and economic rights and commitments to sustainable development and disarmament all have a single purpose securing peace, freedom and happiness for all. The first step towards peace therefore is full respect for human rights. Fundamental human rights constitute a minimal framework of guarantees necessary to ensure the integral development of the human person and the construction of a harmonious society. For that reason, respect for human rights at all levels of society and for all peoples, without distinction, is indispensable. Costa Rica advocates for the strengthening of the international mechanisms for the promotion and monitoring of human rights. We must overcome the politicization of verification machinery by creating 31 objective criteria for the implementation of human rights instruments in such a way that verification itself encourages policies that promote human rights and that consolidate their protection. Similarly, it is necessary to achieve the universality of international treaties that promote respect for basic rights. In that context, we welcome the fact that, in conjunction with the current general debate, a special treaty event to promote the signature and the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment is being held. That instrument constitutes an effective mechanism for preventing those very serious violations of human dignity. We welcome the creation and the establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC) at The Hague, thanks to the successful election of its Judges last February. Fortunately, mankind now possesses an effective, independent and impartial institution with the authority to prosecute the most serious crimes that infringe upon human dignity. We also deem it urgent to consider the relationship between human rights and the environment. We welcome the fact that the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation recognized the importance of studying, in an exhaustive and transparent way, that relationship between human rights and the environment, including the fundamental right to development. We consider it indispensable that this item be added to the agenda of the General Assembly. Full observance of human rights is being threatened by some recent developments in the area of biotechnology. Unquestionably, progress in the areas of medical science and genetic research facilitate the development and the discovery of new therapies and medical techniques. However, those same technologies pose new ethical challenges, because they can be used to violate human rights and assault the intrinsic dignity of the human person. The use of human embryos in scientific experiments, discarding them in the process, is unacceptable. Cloning reduces the individual to a mere object of industrial production and manipulation. That is objectionable both morally and legally. Costa Rica supports the prohibition of all forms of human cloning and has proposed a draft resolution to this end, which today has dozens of countries sponsoring it. The second step in the path to peace is to make democracy a form of life. True democracy is a permanent process that demands daily efforts of coordination and cooperation in order to respect the will of the majority and the rights of the minorities. True democracy also entails equal opportunities in the areas of social and economic development. A third step to peace is disarmament, demilitarization and the reduction of military expenditures. The reduction of military arsenals decreases opportunities for violence and makes it possible to devote greater resources to social development programmes. In that context, we welcome the progress made by the Central American nations regarding the reduction of their armed forces and military arsenals. Two States from the region have already abolished their armies Panama in 1990 and Costa Rica since 1948. We support the proposal of President Bolanos of Nicaragua, on the reasonable balance of forces in the Central American region, which will generate greater transparency and confidence. My Government supports the adoption of a complete ban on arms transfers to all terrorist groups, as well as to those groups and Governments that commit gross or systematic violations of human rights or international humanitarian law. The prompt adoption of a legally binding convention to regulate the arms trade is urgent. We urge those States that possess nuclear weapons to truly commit themselves to the nuclear disarmament negotiations. We call upon all States to renounce the development of new nuclear weapons and to ratify the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. We welcome the fact that the member States of the Organization of American States have recently adopted a Costa Rican initiative on the non- proliferation of chemical weapons in the Western Hemisphere. The pursuit of peace requires the peaceful resolution of conflicts through the mechanisms established pursuant to international law. The International Court of Justice occupies a central 32 position as the principal judicial organ of the United Nations that ensures the rule of law in international relations. We urge all States to accept its obligatory jurisdiction without conditions. In order to make further progress towards peace we must strengthen United Nations mechanisms designed to prevent armed conflict and humanitarian crises from occurring and to re-establish the peace once such conflicts have broken out. The Security Council must carry out its duties in a more effective, active and fair way; no national interest should prevent it from taking action. In this context, we must revitalize the Security Council reform process, which, after 10 years of work, still lacks results. In order to attain peace and prevent civil wars, we must devote sufficient financial, technical and human resources to the peacekeeping operations carried out under the auspices of this Organization. Such missions should enjoy the resolute support and effective participation of all nations, as was reaffirmed in the Rio Group statement on the situation in Colombia, adopted on 24 May in Cuzco. We urgently appeal for this Organization to support the peace process in Colombia and to urge the guerrilla movements to sign an agreement to cease hostilities and enter into an open-ended and transparent dialogue with a view to reaching a peaceful and definitive resolution of the Colombian conflict. The United Nations must decisively address the deep-rooted causes of armed conflict. It is necessary to eliminate the sources of tension and violence. It is essential to eradicate the economic, social and political injustices that fuel conflict. The change of regime in Iraq, which we welcome, has given the United Nations and the international community at large a unique opportunity to fully integrate that nation into the international system. We must not miss this opportunity. We therefore call upon the occupying Powers, the rest of the international community and the United Nations to work for the reconstruction and normalization of that nation. Furthermore, we must not allow Iraq to become a source of regional instability or a breeding ground for international terrorism. We must bear in mind the sacrifice made by Sergio Vieira de Mello and all the other United Nations personnel who gave their lives in Baghdad for this Organization and for the people of Iraq. Their sacrifice must guide us in our work. Their martyrdom must lead us to devote every effort to the protection of the fundamental right to peace. Today, peace is threatened by the resurgence of international terrorism. All necessary measures must therefore be taken, in conformity with the rule of law, to prevent acts of terrorism and punish those who commit them. The fight against international terrorism, however, should not become an excuse to violate human rights or to adopt repressive measures against an innocent population. In 1971, the General Assembly approved the entry of the People's Republic of China into the United Nations. That decision was correct, inasmuch as it promoted the universal character of this global Organization. In accordance with that same principle, my country has since that time been advocating that the Republic of China on Taiwan also be represented in this Organization. We believe that the Republic of China on Taiwan could greatly contribute to the work of this Organization. For many years that nation was an active Member of the United Nations. It participated constructively in all of its activities and the work of its bodies. Since then, the Republic of China on Taiwan has been developing close and productive relations with peoples and Governments throughout the world, promoting programmes and projects for the sustainable development of communities. In keeping with the principle of universality that the United Nations itself promotes, Costa Rica advocates that both Governments be represented at this Organization. I have set out a series of steps that are indispensable if peace is to be fully enjoyed. Such steps are the very least we need to take in order to fulfil our commitment to peace and that commitment must be absolute. May God bless us all as we work for the well- being of humankind.  ﻿For the United Nations and the system of collective security that it represents, the past year has been a traumatic one. Our Organization could ill afford the loss of the dedicated and experienced members of staff who were killed by an act of terrorism in Baghdad on the 19 August. I do not diminish the contribution of each and every one of those who lost their lives in the cause of humanity if I give individual mention to Sergio Vieira de Mello. I would like to pay particular tribute to his work in bringing to birth the new State of Timor Leste, which has become the latest Member of the United Nations. We are living in a period of great insecurity. We are stalked by fear — fear of war, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, famine, disease, ethnic and religious hatred, and organized crime. Governments are acting, individually and in groups, to shield their people from these threats. However, the nature of the challenge requires coordinated global action. Fortunately, we have the United Nations Organization, which brings together the nations of the world in the service of international peace and security. If we did not already have such an organization, we would surely have to invent it. The tragedy for mankind is that we do not make the most effective use of it. We are frequently told by commentators that the United Nations has failed. All too often, it is difficult to disagree. So, who is to blame? To answer that question we have to ask: what is the United Nations? The answer is to be found in the Charter. This Organization was established in the name of the peoples of the United Nations. When the United Nations fails, it is because we, the Governments that represent the peoples of the United Nations, have failed, individually or collectively, to meet our obligations. Our most common failing, I would submit, is that we frequently overlook the fact that this Organization was created to serve not just our own nation, but all mankind. Too often, Members seek to use this 20 Organization to pursue their national interests by seeking to have it adopt resolutions that are partial or biased; by ignoring its resolutions when these do not suit them; and by encouraging action on certain issues and conflicts while blocking action on or even consideration of, others. All too many of us have been guilty of such an approach. We simply cannot afford to continue with this attitude. The world is fast changing. Every day brings a new awareness of just how interdependent we all are. The option of shutting ourselves safely away behind protective walls no longer exists. We have to learn to live together, to share the resources of this planet and to look after each other. We can retain our national, cultural and religious identities, but we need to recognize that we are, first and foremost, all members of the human race, and we must act accordingly. We need a viable system of global governance that can ensure international peace and security. To be viable, such a system must possess two essential qualities: effectiveness and legitimacy. To be effective, it requires the unambiguous support of the entire community of nation States. Its decisions must be respected and, where necessary, we must be ready and able to act to secure such respect. To retain legitimacy, the system must be seen to work in the interests of the entire international community. I appeal, therefore, to the Governments represented at this session of the General Assembly for a change in our attitude to the United Nations. Let us cease treating it as a tool useful only to the extent that it can deliver on our national agenda. Instead, let us use the United Nations to harness our collective resources in the interests of each and every member of mankind. To adapt the words of President John F. Kennedy, let us ask not what the United Nations can do for us, but what we can do for the United Nations. The United Nations needs reform. We all accept that. Our institutions are not sufficiently effective and, in some instances, are not adequately representative of today’s membership. We have discussed these issues at great length, but we have balked at taking the hard decisions. The time has come to put the interests of the wider international community before narrow national concerns. We are fortunate, at this moment, to have as Secretary-General a man of the stature of Kofi Annan; a man who is held in universal regard and who is seen to stand for the interests of the entire international community. He has not shrunk from grasping the nettle of reform, and in his address to this Assembly he called on the Members of this Organization to grasp it with him. We must find the courage and generosity to take up this challenge. The past two years have been a particularly sober period in the history of mankind. There has been so much death and destruction across the globe. How much of this might have been avoided if the United Nations had been better able to fulfil the noble purposes set out in the Charter? I do not claim that it is possible to eradicate man’s capacity for evil or to totally eliminate the tendency to seek to resolve disputes through violence. But I do submit that a stronger, more resolute, more respected and more active United Nations might have prevented some of the suffering of the past two years. The world today is very different from that which existed when the Charter was drawn up. It is smaller, more crowded, more combustible. Isolated pockets of human habitation have been brought together by a population explosion, migration, faster and cheaper air travel, television, the Internet, the growth of free trade and the development of weapons of mass destruction. What happens in one part of the world can increasingly have an instant and dramatic effect in another part. This evolution has raised questions concerning the interpretation of two important provisions of the Charter. The first is paragraph 7 of Article 2, which in effect excludes the United Nations from intervening in matters that are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any State. Yet the problem arises increasingly in our global society as to whether and when a matter can be considered as falling entirely within the domestic jurisdiction of a State. Some situations are clearer than others. In my view, when events within a country threaten international peace and security, they become the legitimate interest of the international community. Similarly, I cannot accept that the international community should stand by and accept the large-scale, flagrant and persistent violation of human rights. We have received sharp lessons in the past. The trigger for intervening to prevent an attempted genocide should not be the moment that refugees begin to flood across the border. 21 At the same time, international intervention raises serious questions. It can also pose serious risks to the international regime. Clearly, intervention is objectively called for in some extreme cases. But there is a need to work carefully through this concept with a view to forging an international consensus around it. Another issue that has recently come to the fore and was highlighted by the Secretary-General is that of Article 51 of the Charter and the conditions under which Member States have the right to act in self- defence. The development of weapons of mass destruction in the period since the signing of the Charter, and the appearance of non-State actors with the capacity for mass destruction, raise serious questions as to the point at which a State might consider it necessary to act in self-defence. This is also an issue that requires serious reflection. My Government would be deeply concerned at the widespread acceptance of a doctrine of pre-emptive strike. Given the ever more lethal nature of modern weapons, the risk of large-scale death, destruction and escalation are enormous. More effective than striking pre-emptively, of course, is to pre-empt the risk of conflict through a wide range of steps in the diplomatic, economic, humanitarian and other areas. We should devote more attention to dealing with the root causes of conflict. We must seek to identify potential conflicts as early as possible and deal with them before they get out of hand. Where conflict nevertheless becomes a possibility, we should act more assertively to head it off. We simply cannot afford to accept the existence of so-called forgotten or ignored conflicts. Any conflict that threatens international peace and security is the United Nations legitimate business and should be on the agenda of the Security Council. I would now like to touch briefly on a number of specific issues that are of concern to my Government. The conflict between Israel and the Palestinian people continues to pose a serious threat to world peace. My own country’s difficult national experience shows that there is no such thing as a straight line to peace. Our experience in Ireland clearly demonstrates that farsighted leaders cannot allow their efforts to be held hostage by terrorists and extremists. They must have the wisdom to look beyond the politics of the last atrocity. What is more, leaders must be prepared to deal with each other. As the Nobel Laureate John Hume once said, “you make peace with your enemies, not your friends”. President Arafat has a responsibility to lead his people away from violence and back to the negotiating table. It is a responsibility that he must assume. Threats to expel or assassinate him are deeply misguided and dangerous and can only further delay efforts to achieve a settlement. Lasting peace can only be achieved through negotiation. Palestinians must realize that violence has failed. Terrorism is wrong and has brought nothing but misery to both Israel and Palestine. It has made compromise more difficult than ever. Israel must see that repression and attempts at physical separation will not deliver long-term security. The most effective means for Israel to secure a peaceful future would be to accept the Palestinian people’s right to a viable State of their own on the basis of the 1967 borders. Israel should immediately reverse its policy of building settlements, settler-only roads and a security wall on Palestinian territory. It is imperative that the parties re-engage in the task of implementing the road map, leading to a two- State solution based on the vision enshrined in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397 (2002). They need the support of the Quartet. But such mediation will not succeed if it is, or is perceived to be, one-sided. We must be careful to ensure that our demands are balanced and that we hold both sides equally to account. The people of Iraq are suffering from events that in most cases are not of their making. We want to see this suffering brought to an end as soon as possible. The Iraqi people can only play a part in that by rejecting those who engage in violence and industrial sabotage. The occupying Powers must be scrupulous in meeting their obligations under international law. The Iraqi people need and deserve the support of a united international community in the political and economic reconstruction of their country. The United Nations, with its unique experience and legitimacy, is essential to efforts to help the Iraqi people recover their sovereignty as soon as possible and to forge a new Iraq, at peace with itself and with its neighbours. We look to the members of the Security Council at this crucial moment to assume their responsibilities and to reach an agreement on a new resolution that reflects the interests 22 of the people of Iraq and that can enjoy the necessary support of the region and of the broad international community. The proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons poses a serious threat to international peace and security. We must recommit ourselves to controlling the spread of such weapons, and working towards their complete elimination. This can only be achieved through a comprehensive and rigorous system of international treaties and obligations that are verifiable and universal. Ireland, with its partners in the New Agenda Coalition, will continue its efforts in respect of nuclear disarmament during this year’s General Assembly. Ireland calls on all States who are concerned about the issue of weapons of mass destruction to become constructively engaged in the multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation process. There can be no room for double standards. We must also remain resolute in our determination to counter the threat of terrorism. We owe it to the victims of 11 September, and to the victims of terrorist atrocities before and since then. The measures put in place by the Security Council have made it more difficult for international terrorist networks to organize and to finance their activities. These organizations, however, do not stand still. We must remain vigilant and redouble our efforts to make it impossible for the agents of international terror to operate. In doing so, however, we must be clear that the need to act against terrorism offers no license for action contrary to the United Nations Charter, or against the body of international human rights and humanitarian law that we have so painstakingly constructed. We must also seek to deal with the causes of terrorism. Terrorism is not some kind of original sin. No child is born a terrorist. At some point in their lives, some people become terrorists. We have to identify how and why. And if we find that young people are being indoctrinated into terrorism, we have to deal with those who seek to incite hatred and terror. If we find that they act, however wrongly, in reaction to real or perceived injustice, we have to confront that fact and, as far as it is possible, seek to eliminate the reality or perception of that injustice. To seek to understand the causes of terrorism should not be misunderstood as being soft on terrorism. On the contrary, it is an essential step in its elimination. I can speak from experience of developments in my own country for many decades. The Government and people of Afghanistan face important challenges in the coming year, in particular the adoption of a constitution and the holding of national elections. Severe difficulties stand in the way, especially the precarious security situation. The sustained and wholehearted support of the international community is required if Afghanistan is to recover from its long ordeal. For Ireland’s part, it has delivered on its pledges to the reconstruction of Afghanistan. In Africa, encouraging progress has been made in the past year towards the resolution of some long- standing and intractable conflicts. We urge the parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to implement the commitments that they have entered into. Neighbouring States must abide by their commitments and their obligation not to interfere in the area. Sierra Leone remains on track, with the help of the United Nations, towards a future and peaceful development. And progress has been achieved in Liberia. I want to pay tribute to the efforts of those Member States that have contributed to this positive development. Their continued engagement, along with the United Nations, will be indispensable in helping the people of Liberia to consolidate what has been achieved and to build peace in their country. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that my Government in the next few days will recommend to our Parliament that Ireland’s Defence Forces participate with a sizeable contingent in the forthcoming United peacekeeping operation in Liberia. Respect for human rights is an essential foundation for peace and security. Lack of respect for human rights is at the root of many conflicts, internal and international. The promotion of human rights is rightly the concern of the international community as a whole. It must remain a central task of the United Nations and must be integrated into all United Nations activities. There is no room for complacency. We must all recognize that no country, including our own, is perfect. We can all do better. I pay tribute to the many brave individuals around the world — defenders of human rights — who risk 23 discrimination, imprisonment or worse to ensure that Governments live up to their human rights obligations. The establishment of the International Criminal Court was a clear signal of the determination of the international community to bring to justice those who are involved in genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Ireland, together with its partners in the European Union, will continue to offer firm support to the International Criminal Court, as its work gets under way. I urge those who have not signed or ratified the Rome Statute to do so, and I urge all States to adhere firmly to the principles on which it is based. The peace process in Northern Ireland remains a major priority for the Irish Government. Regrettably, due to diminishing trust between the political parties, the devolved political institutions in Northern Ireland were suspended nearly one year ago. Since then, we have been working to re-establish the trust and confidence necessary to restore and sustain these institutions. This involves both ensuring that all vestiges of paramilitary activity are consigned to the past and that all parties commit themselves to the full and stable operation of the democratic institutions of the Good Friday Agreement. Following intensive negotiations, we came tantalizingly close in April to making the required breakthrough but unfortunately did not get matters fully resolved at that time. After one of the most peaceful summers on the streets of Northern Ireland, the process is now entering another decisive phase of challenge and opportunity. Developments over the next few weeks will have a crucial bearing on whether elections — which I believe should take place before the end of the year — will be held in an atmosphere that is conducive to forming a working administration on the other side of the polling day. For this to happen, all of the pro-Agreement parties must show leadership and courage, face up to their responsibilities and take the decisions they know are right, and encourage their constituencies to reach out to others. As partners in this process, Prime Minister Blair and I — and our two Governments — are working closely together to support and encourage all those political and community leaders who are taking risks for peace. From other areas around the world struggling to escape from a legacy of violence, we in Ireland know all too well that a process of conflict resolution cannot rest still. Either it continues to move forward or it loses momentum and direction and falters. To complacently assume that current opportunities for progress can be deferred until a more politically convenient moment is both wrong and dangerous. In the case of Northern Ireland, the moment of opportunity is now and it is my hope that in the weeks and months ahead all of the parties who subscribed to the Good Friday Agreement will collectively rise to that challenge. Poverty and insecurity go hand in hand. The efforts of the United Nations to promote international peace and security must be closely aligned with its work in tackling the root causes of poverty. When I launched the United Nations Human Development Report in Dublin last July, I noted how powerful a reminder it was that the world is becoming a more unequal place. According to the report, 54 countries — the great majority of them in Africa — are poorer now than they were in 1990. A world where more than 1.2 billion people continue to live on less than a dollar a day, where 14 million children are orphaned because of HIV/AIDS and where women in the poorest countries are 175 times more likely to die in childbirth than women in rich countries is inherently unjust and hence insecure. At the United Nations special session on HIV/AIDS in 2001, I said Ireland would increase its contribution to the fight against HIV/AIDS by an additional $30 million per year. Last year, our spending on HIV/AIDS programmes exceeded $40 million — a ten-fold increase over the past three years. The Millennium Declaration called for a global partnership for development, and as in any partnership, there are responsibilities on all sides. Undertakings on official development assistance, debt relief, and governance must be achieved. We must be rigorous in assessing our progress in 2005, as we committed ourselves to doing. At the Millennium Summit, I committed Ireland to reaching the United Nations target for official development assistance of 0.7 per cent of gross national product by 2007. Since then, Ireland has increased its official development assistance to 0.41 per cent and remains committed to reaching the target by 2007. 24 Fair and open international trade is essential for global peace and prosperity. It is an integral part of the multilateral system that we are pledged to protect. I regret that it did not prove possible to reach agreement at the recent World Trade Organization talks in Cancun. I understand the frustration of those who consider themselves unfairly treated in global markets. But if we turn our back on the multilateral trading system and allow trade and investment to be diverted and distorted by bilateral and regional arrangements, we will damage — perhaps irreparably — the best tool available to us to make serious inroads into poverty and to raise standards of living on a global basis. Let us redouble our efforts to achieve an agreement that offers fair market access and at the same time allows all of us to preserve the essence of our unique cultures and environments. The past year might have been a difficult one for the United Nations, but events have demonstrated that for the people of the world it is the indispensable Organization at the centre of our system of collective security. We have invested it with unique legitimacy and authority. People around the world look to it in hope and expectation. Let us work together to make sure that the United Nations is an organization worthy of the ideals enshrined in its Charter, worthy of the trust of those who rely on it for help and protection, worthy of the idealism and dedication of those who work for it and worthy of the sacrifice of those who have given their lives in its service. As the Secretary-General made clear when he addressed this session of General Assembly: we are at a fork in the road. Let us be sure to take the right road.  ﻿I wish to add Romania's voice to the heartfelt congratulations of others to His Excellency Mr. Julian Robert Hunte on his election to the important position of President of the General Assembly, wish him every success and assure him of our delegation's full support. The political debate of this session of the Assembly is being held in an international setting that requires us to take a long, hard look at the way the United Nations can respond to the challenges facing us. The recent terrorist attacks in Baghdad, which took the lives of Ambassador Sergio Vieira de Mello and other brave members of the United Nations community, as well as of Iraqis who had committed themselves to restoring stability in their country, proved once more that the only language that fanatics use is that of crime and terror. The best way to pay 38 tribute to the memory of those victims of terror is to carry out, with redoubled determination, the mission to which they had dedicated their life. Today, the United Nations is called upon to continue to play a greater role in the service of good. Over the course of the past decade, the Organization has accomplished a great deal, despite the seemingly insurmountable difficulties and certain evident limitations. Those obstacles sometimes grew out of a lack of shared perspectives regarding the problems confronting us today. Yet, we have managed to keep world security under control. (spoke in English) As always at the United Nations, we are faced with a challenge brought about by differing views towards common problems. There is nothing new here, except for the magnitude of the consequences. We cannot afford to do nothing simply because we do not agree on everything. The United Nations is not about agreeing on everything. It is about building consensus. We can do just that if we concentrate on negotiation not language, but substance. Irrespective of how important the debate might be, we should not be distracted today by talk of a unipolar, multipolar or even bipolar world. Rather, we should concentrate on how we can govern our world in a way that benefits the individual, brings about opportunity and pre-empts, deters and fights terrorism and aggression. If we are true to the principle of an international community dedicated to preserving peace and increasing prosperity, we should discuss how to achieve higher levels of international understanding, rather than the relevance of the United Nations system today, for we have to remember that true security is shared security, and true prosperity is shared prosperity. To achieve this, we should also keep in mind that legitimacy brings credibility that leads to predictability and predictability, brings long-term commonality of views that is the cornerstone of lasting coalitions. This is why we share the assessment of the Secretary-General, that The United Nations is not an end in itself. Rather it is an instrument for achieving common ends.' (A/58/1, para. 10) Our belief that we, the Member States, must keep the United Nations working with efficiency, with purpose and with result prompted Romania to put forward our candidature for membership in the Security Council starting next January. We thank the Eastern European Group and others for their support for us. This is a responsibility that we do not underestimate. Our mission will be to uphold the validity of the United Nations as an essential international actor in preventing and resolving conflicts, eliminating poverty and promoting human rights. As befits a State that will soon be a member of both the European Union and NATO, we believe in the multilateral approach to tackling terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, organized crime and violations of human rights. As a country that has struggled to rebuild a democratic society based on the rule of law, a market economy and respect for human rights, we understand the complex challenges of transition that other countries are also facing. It is not an easy process, but in our view it is the only way to guarantee durable economic prosperity and social cohesion for the citizen. We want to see a strengthening of the central role of the United Nations in coordinating worldwide efforts to this end. Romania's international profile is defined by our location and our history and capability in Europe and by our transition experience. We are determined to play a responsible role in connecting the West and East of our continent, and in reaching out to countries on the Eastern shore of the Black Sea, the Caucasus and the greater Middle East. We pledge to contribute to spreading Euro-Atlantic values beyond NATO and the European Union areas by consistently promoting the culture of dialogue and regional cooperation. Terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the rising number of failing States and global disparities are some of the most worrying hallmarks of our times. The speed and unevenness of global processes intensify the complexity and pervasive nature of these threats to our common security and prosperity. We already possess an important range of tools to tackle threats like terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. They should now be used in a more responsible and effective manner. For example, the Counter-Terrorism Committee should be given more professional resources so it can act more effectively to 39 streamline national legislation on uprooting the financial resources of terrorism and monitor its implementation. International non-proliferation legal regimes should be strengthened in order to prevent determined proliferators from breaching their international obligations. Countries of concern with regard to proliferation could be subjected to diplomatic and economic pressure, which is most effective when applied multilaterally. Challenges to the security and stability of our world also emerge as globalization processes expand. Sustainable development is increasingly related to sustainable peace and security. Globalization is inevitable. Provided that it is combined with good governance, proper development assistance and awareness of environmental issues, as well as with fair trade through open markets, globalization is a force for progress. But global disparities are not disappearing. The ratio of per capita incomes of the richest and poorest countries now stands at more than seventy to one. So it is especially disappointing that the World Trade Organization talks in Cancun ended in deadlock. We call on all parties to redouble their efforts in December to resume dialogue and close the gap. The success we need is not just that of freer and more open markets, but also that of equitable trade, creating added value to regions, nations and communities. Sustainable development demands first that we manage globalization responsibly so that it benefits all. It is time to focus on implementing the concrete goals of eradicating poverty and accelerating development. The challenge will be to prioritize our work. Our focus at the High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development at the end of next month should remain squarely on achieving results. We also must redouble our efforts to put an end to conflicts, and we must find a way to rebuild those countries that have survived conflict but are struggling to survive peace. Africa is a particularly worrying example of how dangerous it can be to ignore the consequences of conflicts. The grave humanitarian crises on that continent are foreboding a bleak future for many countries and fomenting despair and far- reaching frustrations. The international community has to be more engaged in addressing poverty, intolerance and ethnic hatred. We would like to see the United Nations enhance its peace operation capabilities and emphasize in particular the reconstruction and rehabilitation processes. We have done this in Afghanistan, yet it remains a test of our ability and willingness to secure a successful democracy offensive in the fight against terrorism. I think we have enough at stake to stand by that commitment. In the Middle East, the new wave of violence is preventing the full implementation of the agreed road map. Romania strongly condemns suicide bombings that are carried out by the enemies of peace and security in the area. We urge the new Palestinian Government to act effectively against further terrorist attacks targeting Israel and its citizens, but it is equally important that the Israeli Government stand by its commitments in the framework of pursuing a political solution to this bitter conflict. We fully support the actions of the Quartet that are meant to contribute to overcoming this dangerous situation. We shall follow with utmost interest the ministerial meeting that is scheduled for this week. In Iraq, we believe it is time for the international community to work together to stabilize and reconstruct that tragic country, whose people have suffered so much under tyranny for so long. The successful conclusion of negotiations on the new resolution concerning Iraq is not a mere option it is a must. We need now to concentrate on what matters most: the steps that must be taken next by the international community to empower the Iraqi people and to ensure the democratic functioning of institutions in that country and stability, not only in Iraq, but also in the greater Middle East as a whole. As a participating country in the Coalition Provisional Authority, Romania is already engaged and ready to continue to contribute to achieving these goals. We are looking forward to participating in the coming ministerial conference on assistance for the Iraqi people in Madrid this October. Many conflicts in the world stem from the breakdown of nation-States. Porous borders, weak national institutions and the development of alternative allegiances based on religious, economic and other factors often lead to the collapse of State structures. The principal feature of such States is the absence of political legitimacy, coupled with an uncontrolled or unaccountable security sector and contempt for the rule of law. That leads to violent conflict over control of 40 resources or between different ethnic groups and to violation of human rights and humanitarian law. Illegal arms become readily accessible, organized crime and violence flourish and economic prospects die. A good example of where the international community has been successful in preventing the relapse of a post-conflict situation is South-East Europe. The past year has seen real progress in this region, due principally to the increased efforts of the countries themselves, in partnership with the regional community and with support from international organizations and partners. But certain problems persist. It is vital to press ahead with full commitment to meeting the responsibilities and timelines that have already been accepted and to creating truly democratic and multi-ethnic societies. Combating organized crime and illegal trafficking, including the most degrading kind that turns human beings into commodities, is a priority in our regional approach. We need to look at all these challenges with a new determination to tackle them, making full and effective use of the tools available to us within the United Nations system. There has been much discussion of the ability of the United Nations to respond to crises. The disadvantages of the present working methods of its structures and mechanisms, which were conceived more than half a century ago, call for radical reform. The real debate is about effectiveness, adaptation and evolution. It is about our common will, as responsible members of the international community, to act together. Everything else especially the badly needed strategies will simply follow, and this will make it possible to approach the new and old threats alike. The United Nations must increasingly serve as a catalyst for collective action. This requires close cooperation among its Member States, dialogue and partnership with the vibrant constellation of new non- State actors: civil society, non-governmental organizations, the business community and academia. Finally, the Organization must become more effective, efficient and accessible to the world's people. We must weigh up our differences, gauge our ability for joint intervention and act in coordination. Just as the nature of current problems affects people in everything they do, so too must we put people at the centre of everything we do.  ﻿It is an honour and privilege for me to present my country’s statement as 28 commanded by His Majesty King Mswati III and on his behalf. Allow me to convey the greetings and best wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III and Her Majesty the Indlovukazi and indeed the entire Swazi nation. We are gathered here to chart the way forward towards the creation of a world fit for all of us by the turn of the century and beyond. Over the past year, we witnessed dramatic events that brought old and new issues to the forefront. The international situation has relapsed into the old state of uncertainty. International leadership, be it on the part of the major Powers or the United Nations, has become vague, as confrontations at the interstate and intra-state levels have increased. Our inability to stand collectively against many issues that afflict each individual country differently has been cited by our detractors as marking the beginning of the end of the Organization and multilateralism. The United Nations needs to send a clear message to its detractors that it is alive and well, and that it will indeed play a major role in the post-cold war era. All must know that the United Nations is a major forum for consultation, coordination and collective decisions on crucial socio-political issues among its Members and that its strength and relevance has never come from affirming the designs of a few selected Member nations, but instead rests on the collective will of the international community that emerges from a multilateral process. In our interdependent world, the need to strengthen the multilateral process is now more urgent than ever before, if we are to achieve our common goal of a just and humane international order based on international cooperation and solidarity. This is a challenge that must be squarely and urgently addressed, and remedial action must be taken here at the United Nations. We can stand tall and proud, knowing that two years ago, the response by the United Nations to a new and unprecedented level of terrorism was immediate, united and effective. That response was a model for international unity of purpose and multilateral action; it was a lesson that should not be forgotten as the Organization tackles other problems confronting humanity. At this point, allow me to pay tribute to Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special Representative of the Secretary-General, and to the other United Nations staff and support staff who lost their lives in the terrible tragedy in Baghdad a few weeks ago. Once more, terrorism has shown its ugly face — indeed its only face — and how important it is to support the United Nations efforts to deal with it. Despite the best intentions and efforts of regional organizations and the United Nations, a scourge of a different nature continues to threaten many parts of the world. I refer here to the threat of internal and inter- State conflicts around the world. Events in some parts of the world continue to be of grave concern to us all. People and countries continue to expend valuable energy and resources in fighting each other. The international community has a responsibility, not only to design appropriate strategies for a measured and early response, but also to find ways and means of addressing those conflicts’ root cause and managing them to a peaceful resolution. There are positive indications that political conflict and turmoil in Africa will be eliminated, and there is hope for building stability and economic progress. In the face of dwindling official development assistance and the lack of comparable resources, the creation of the African Union and its New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) programme are commendable initiatives to bring Africa closer to the mainstream of international development, to generate sustainable economic growth and to eradicate poverty and the spread of disease. What is needed now are resources and we ask that every effort be made by our developed partners to ensure that these initiatives achieve a breakthrough for African development. Also, the international community should concentrate its efforts toward making development more inclusive and must ensure that particular groups of vulnerable countries, in particular small developing States, are not left out of the global economy and the development process. With the ongoing revitalization of the General Assembly and its integrated implementation and follow-up to the outcome of major United Nations conferences and summits, we are hopeful that the aspirations of our countries for sustainable development and peace will be met. The situation in the Middle East continues to be a matter of great concern. We urge both parties to renew their commitment to the road map for peace and to agree on a mechanism for achieving a lasting peace. We are pleased to note that a significant level of 29 consensus on the main elements of a settlement has emerged. We further urge both parties to take advantage of this and proceed towards negotiations involving the leadership of Palestine and Israel. It is regrettable that the threat of a nuclear holocaust still haunts us — even to this day — owing to the inability of the international community to work out a regime for the total elimination of nuclear weapons. Under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty we have made significant gains on the issue of nuclear disarmament, but these alone cannot eliminate the threat of nuclear weapons. The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to hold the view that the international community must effectively address this matter in order to establish a clear timetable to which all nuclear Powers must commit. In addition to the struggle to outlaw weapons of mass destruction, there is an urgent need to address the issue of small arms and light weapons, which have contributed to conflict and insecurity in many of our countries. Their easy accessibility, fuelled by illicit brokering, is a major cause for concern. We appeal to all countries to fully implement the recommendations contained in the Programme of Action adopted by the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, held here in New York in 2001, with a view to combating such practices. Economic growth is essential if we are to meet the Millennium Development Goals, in particular the first goal of eradicating poverty. In our quest to develop quietly and peacefully, according to the wishes of the Swazi nation, His Majesty King Mswati III launched, in June this year, the country’s first draft constitution — a document that has been hailed by many as a good framework for shaping a new Swaziland. The Constitutional Drafting Committee has taken the draft to the people for their input, and it is our hope that it will be finalized and adopted soon. We are grateful to our international partners for providing support throughout that exercise. Despite our best efforts, however, the Kingdom of Swaziland is finding it difficult to achieve progress because of the huge obstacles that we face, the greatest of these being the threat to our future by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Its devastating impact on Swaziland has been well documented. No development sector is immune from the consequences of the very high and increasing HIV infection rate among our people, given the enormous strain that it places on our financial and human resources. We are grateful, however, to the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and hopes are now high. Notwithstanding the inherent delays in processing our applications to the Fund, the arrival of the first disbursements from the Fund in August has increased hope for thousands among the affected and infected population. We are now able to embrace the approved medical-care strategies, including the reduction of mother-to-child transmission of the virus and the prescription of antiretroviral drugs for those who need them. The recent high-level meeting on HIV/AIDS, which was held here last week, was of critical importance to Swaziland. We are positive that the conclusions reached during that meeting will be critical in our endeavour to find solutions to this pandemic. As part of His Majesty’s initiative to promote global awareness of the pandemic and to raise funds that will help those of our countries that are suffering from the dreadful consequences of the disease, the much awaited album by international artists, entitled “Songs for Life”, was launched by His Majesty here at the United Nations, in Washington and in Los Angeles in June this year. We look forward with great confidence to the success of the album, whose proceeds will go entirely to HIV/AIDS programmes. The food security situation that continues to affect the Southern African region is closely linked to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. The Kingdom of Swaziland has been hard hit by food shortages, largely due to the failure of the rains, particularly in the rural areas, where communities are entirely dependent on farming. As food shortages grip us tighter, we are grateful to the United Nations and its affiliated agencies for their effort to help us to arrest the crisis. As we approach this farming season, it is our prayer that the situation will improve. It could be safely said that the twenty-first century has had an inauspicious start, with globalization, terrorism, disease and weapons of mass destruction at the forefront of our minds. This places all the more responsibility on the United Nations to harness the resources and commitment of its Members for the benefit of humankind. In this effort, there is a compelling need to include all the peoples of the world, 30 as envisaged by our founding fathers and as enshrined in the principle of universality. Acknowledging the importance of this principle, the Kingdom of Swaziland raises the issue of the inclusion once more of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the activities of the United Nations and its associated agencies. Our principled position on this important issue remains unchanged. The Republic of China on Taiwan has shown time and again its willingness to participate in efforts to bring about true global peace, development and security, as well as its commitment to utilize resources for the benefit of mankind. We therefore fail to understand why the people of Taiwan cannot be part of this great family of nations. Finally, I would like to thank the President of the Assembly for giving me this opportunity to speak before the Assembly. The Kingdom of Swaziland reiterates its conviction that the United Nations system remains the best guarantee for international peace and security. We pledge to work vigorously with the Organization to ensure its success. ﻿The deaths of Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues leave a terrible void. The loss of so many dedicated servants of the United Nations at its headquarters in Baghdad fills us with shock, grief and concern. This atrocity and the other murderous attacks we have seen in the past two years are chilling evidence that terrorists are ruthlessly targeting the civilized world. Terrorism is a direct threat to us all, to humanity as a whole. Weapons of mass destruction are the other direct threat, an even worse threat if such weapons were to fall into the hands of terrorists. In addition to these direct threats to peace and security, we are faced with, in the words of Secretary- General Kofi Annan, “soft threats”: poverty and hunger, environmental degradation and diseases of mass destruction like HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. What all these threats have in common is that they do not stop at national borders. Their often lethal consequences affect groups of countries, whole continents or even the entire planet. The only way to tackle them is by collective action. Enforcement and implementation are the key. But do we have the capacity to take such action? Is the existing multilateral system with its institutions and rules capable of responding to the hard threats and soft threats we are facing? I doubt it. Take the growing danger of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Can we allow a few countries to reject the rules agreed to by 187 other countries? Can we run the risk of countries turning into suppliers of nuclear arms to terrorist organizations? No, we cannot. And if today’s rules cannot avert States putting humanity at risk, we must tighten those rules and we must be ready to collectively enforce them. I therefore welcome President Bush’s proposal for a binding Security Council resolution, tightening up the non-proliferation rules. I suggest that we build on existing export control regimes and make them universal and legally binding. This approach would be in line with the successful example of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), containing binding obligations for States to take action against terrorism. Other elements in a more forceful multilateral system are 15 greater attention to conflict prevention, better use of sanctions or “smart sanctions”, an upgrading of the International Atomic Energy Agency’s inspections regime and, as suggested by President Chirac, a permanent instrument for inspections at the disposal of the Security Council. More robust multilateral action is also needed in our dealings with failed States. I am encouraged by the increased willingness of the international community to take more determined action. Liberia is a test case. The Brahimi report has shown us the right direction. Peacekeeping operations can only be effective if they are based on a strong mandate, fully implemented on the ground and fully backed by the key players in the Security Council. The five permanent members bear a special responsibility for global peace and security Noblesse oblige. The United Nations is now also at the centre of the debate about Iraq. Let us put our past differences on Iraq behind us. It is crucial now that the international community support the Iraqi people in their reconstruction efforts. I trust that the Security Council will reach agreement, as soon as possible, on what we all want, in other words, stabilization, security and transfer of sovereignty to a legitimate Iraqi government. This will also allow the United Nations and the other multilateral institutions to make their indispensable contributions to a better future for the Iraqi people. A stronger United Nations is also needed for the effective promotion and protection of human rights. I regret that we do not live up to the expectations of the oppressed. The great dependence of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on voluntary contributions is a major concern. His office should instead receive a larger allocation from the regular United Nations budget. The promotion and protection of human rights is United Nations core business. Speaking of human rights, there is no doubt that terrorism itself ranks as one of the most serious threats to democracy and the enjoyment of human rights. Terrorists seek to destroy democracy, freedom and tolerance. If we sacrifice those universal values in the struggle against terrorists, we play into their hands. If I may speak for a moment as Chairman-in- Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), I can assure you that our experience shows that policies aimed at promoting human rights, the rule of law and good governance can reinforce each other as parts of a more comprehensive security strategy. The International Criminal Court is another example of how to ensure that international norms are upheld in cases where national Governments fail to do so. On the trafficking of human beings, women and children in particular, I share the concerns expressed by President Bush. He was right to draw a comparison with slavery. For the OSCE, the threat posed by the international trafficking of drugs, of small arms and of women and children is a top priority. We have already taken concrete action, adopting the OSCE Action Plan to combat trafficking in human beings as an instrument for protecting our people. This Action Plan could serve as a model for worldwide action. Yet another reason why we need a robust multilateral system is that we must break the cycles of poverty and violence we witness in many parts of Africa. This implies restoring stability and order as a precondition for reconstruction and development. It also requires an integrated approach. To this end my Government will set up a stability fund to tackle the twin challenges of development and security. Because development and security are closely linked, the Millennium Development Goals should remain at the centre of our policies. The Netherlands remains committed to allocating 0.8 per cent of our gross domestic product to development cooperation and I call on all countries to implement their Monterrey commitments. But development is not just a matter of aid, it will also depend on liberalizing trade. I am disappointed that the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference in Cancún failed to produce results. The legitimacy of the decisions of the Security Council is questioned because the composition of the Council no longer reflects today’s geopolitical realities. However, expansion is not a solution in itself. Effectiveness can easily fall victim to the quest for legitimacy. Crucial to restored legitimacy is better interaction between the members of the Council and the United Nations membership at large. Members of the Council should represent relevant and broad sections of world opinion. I agree with the Secretary-General that we need to take a hard look at the existing architecture of international institutions. Many other organizations I know well, such as the OSCE, the European Union 16 (EU) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) (and I hope to get to know the last organization even better in the near future), are in the process of redefining their roles in drastically changed circumstances. The United Nations cannot be left behind. Interaction between the United Nations on the one hand, and regional organizations such as the OSCE, the EU and NATO on the other, is growing. There is considerable scope for intensifying that interaction, as is indeed foreseen in the Charter. As the Italian Presidency of the European Union illustrated in its intervention here some days ago, the United Nations can count on the EU in the quest for robust multilateralism. As a member State of the EU, the Netherlands fully endorses the Presidency’s statement. The EU’s new emphasis on countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in its common foreign and security policy is an example of how we want our common efforts to be in the vanguard. Let me now focus on the General Assembly. Take the example of how we deal with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Let us connect the General Assembly to reality. Instead of dealing with 23 resolutions, should we not try to find our strength in a more focused central message, supported by all, a message that calls upon both Israel and the Palestinians to put an end to the bloodshed and violence and to immediately implement the road map as the only viable way to long- lasting peace? The EU will continue to do all it can, together with its partners in the Quartet, to help Palestinians and Israelis reach that destination. I hope that this Assembly can contribute. The Assembly should be made more effective. I need not repeat what you all know about overlapping or hardly relevant agenda items, repetitive debates and resolutions and the prevalence of the lowest common denominator. As a contribution to improvement, my country tabled the Greentree report, the result of a seminar involving representatives from a wide circle of countries. The Greentree report aims at restoring the General Assembly to its rightful place as the centre stage for worldwide deliberations on our common problems. We are certain that in that endeavour, we will be able to count on the leadership and wisdom of the President of the General Assembly. My Government wholeheartedly supports the decision of the Secretary-General to establish a panel of eminent persons. We look forward to his recommendations for next year’s session of the Assembly. Meanwhile, we should not sit back and wait. It is upon us Member States to engage now in the debate on the pertinent reform questions the Secretary- General has put to us. In order to defuse the threats we face and to leave a better world for future generations, we need to do more than talk. We must act and we must act together. We need clear rules and strong institutions — institutions that ensure that the rules of the multilateral game are respected, strengthened and enforced. We need a multilateral system with teeth; we need a multilateral system that works.  ﻿Allow me at the outset, Sir, to convey to you, on behalf of my delegation, our sincere congratulations on your election as the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. It is indeed an added pleasure for my delegation to see such a distinguished personality from a sisterly small island State preside over the Assembly. Allow me also to extend my delegation's profound gratitude and appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, former Deputy Prime Minister and former Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, for the exemplary manner in which he steered the work of the fifty-seventh session. I would also like to take this opportunity, on behalf of my delegation, to express our deep appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his dedication and his untiring work in promoting the noble principles of this Organization. I also congratulate him in particular for the courage and foresight with which he proposed last week much- needed reforms to this Organization. I sincerely wish him every success in carrying them forward. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my delegation's sentiments of sadness and deep sorrow at the tremendous loss suffered by the international community in the recent terrorist bombings of the United Nations premises in Baghdad. I pay a special tribute to the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, and to the other staff members of the Organization who made the ultimate sacrifice in the cause of humanity. Terrorism has always menaced the human race in one form or another. Yet never before have we witnessed acts of terrorism so organized, so frequent and so lethal, threatening international peace and security in its entirety. The Baghdad bombing and other violent eruptions elsewhere in the world grimly remind us that serious threats to world peace and security remain, undermining the noble principles that had so far contributed to the survival of the world order and to the sustenance of the values that we upheld. Much has been done, yet the persistence of such deplorable acts signals our failure to address the fundamental causes of those threats. Bold decisions need to be taken swiftly to address them. Since my country fell victim to a brutal terrorist attack in 1988, we had tried, on many occasions, to impress upon the Assembly the threats to small States posed by increased international terrorism. A decade and a half later, the threat of terrorism is affecting us all, irrespective of our physical size, economic 25 strength, political power or military might. For some small States, the danger is graver, as a terrorist onslaught could severely threaten even their sovereignty and independence. Therefore, let me emphasize the importance of providing support and assistance to small States in the implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), and of strengthening their institutional capabilities in this important field. We all should recognize that the strength and stability of the international security system or of any political order is determined by the strength not of its strongest, but of its weakest members. Maldives will nevertheless continue to support the war against international terrorism in the spirit of contributing to enhanced international peace and security. The structural impediments facing small island developing States such as Maldives are numerous. The geophysical characteristics of our island States, combined with their remoteness from major markets, have accentuated our vulnerabilities. Nearly a decade ago, we met in Barbados to address the environmental vulnerabilities and developmental challenges faced by small island developing States. However, addressing those vulnerabilities and challenges requires a meaningful global partnership, with shared responsibility and commitments at the highest level. My country hopes that Barbados+10, to be held in Mauritius next year, will provide an impetus for the international community to renew the commitments to concrete action it made at Barbados 10 years ago. The globalization of the world economy and the liberalization of the multilateral trading system are continuing to marginalize the developing countries, especially the least developed countries. As tariff barriers fall, so does the potential for developing countries to compete effectively in the open market. Hopes were dashed at Cancun recently, as the Conference proved disappointing, leaving the developing countries still afflicted with problems. Abject poverty and disease in the developing world exist at a level that defies comprehension, while deadly diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis remain rampant. Development opportunities for the least developed countries appear bleak. I therefore call for a level playing field for all countries, with preferential treatment for the weak, and, in particular, for narrowly based economies such as that of my own country, who find it hard, if not impossible, to sustain their share of the global market. My delegation believes that a greater commitment to the implementation of the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries is a prerequisite if we are to halt and reverse the deteriorating situation of the least developed countries. While I express my appreciation of the donor community's willingness to help those countries accelerate their growth and sustain their development, and to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, it must be said that the Monterrey pledges remain far from being realized. The overriding objectives of the Brussels Programme of Action to arrest and reverse the continued socio-economic marginalization of the least developed countries and to improve their participation in international trade and their share of foreign investment and other financial flows will also remain but a dream if official development assistance is not increased and international development assistance is not augmented. As I have stated on many occasions, Maldives is not simply an island nation; it is a nation of many far- flung islands covering 90,000 square kilometres of ocean. Our islands are resource-poor, and the saline soil conditions prohibit most agricultural production. Transport and communication costs are exorbitant. The scope for economic diversification is very limited. That is why we have appealed to the international community to take a closer look at our true situation before the issue of our graduation from least- developed-country status is considered by the Economic and Social Council. As I emphasized in my statement to the Assembly last year, the structural weaknesses of our economy could have grave implications for my country's development, should it be deprived of the preferential access to markets and the concessional capital that it has critically relied upon. The Committee for Development Policy (CDP) has fully recognized the special circumstances of small States like Maldives that are environmentally fragile and economically vulnerable. The CDP has also, over the years, highlighted those vulnerabilities and the severe costs that small island developing countries will have to endure in the event of their graduation. We 26 believe that, unless these vulnerabilities and costs are addressed in a concrete and meaningful manner, the conditions for graduation set forth in Assembly resolution 46/206, particularly that of smooth transition, will not be met. We are concerned that, if such issues are not adequately addressed, graduation will reverse the progress that we have made so far. Although the criteria for inclusion in the list of least developed countries and graduation therefrom have been regularly reviewed and refined, they still fail to cover the entire range of structural and other handicaps. We are glad that the CDP is continuing its work on refining the criteria. We also believe that, of the three criteria for graduation, that relating to the Economic Vulnerability Index must be a requirement, if we are to ensure that a country will not lapse back into a lower category of development after the fatal day of graduation. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development profile of Maldives also highlights a number of circumstances not covered by the criteria. The profile very clearly states that graduation would result in an unsustainable debt burden, even if there is sustained growth. The rate of our economic growth has declined significantly since 1997 and graduation at the present time would therefore amount to a serious exogenous shock. This is precisely the situation that we are so desperately trying to avoid. In accordance with the decision taken at its 2003 substantive session held at Geneva, the Economic and Social Council will soon consider the issue of the graduation of Maldives from least-developed-country status. We sincerely hope that we will receive the necessary support and cooperation of all countries with a view to adopting a comprehensive resolution that would address the issue of graduation in a holistic manner and require an appropriate mechanism to ensure a smooth transition. In this connection, we would like to express our full support for the call by the CDP to convene an expert group meeting to address the issue of smooth transition. We also expect the International Meeting on Small Island Developing States, scheduled to take place in Mauritius next year, to formulate recommendations to guide policies on the graduation of small island developing States. Following the glimmer of hope for the revival of the Middle East peace process, we are again witnessing an unprecedented deterioration of the situation in Palestine and the Middle East. We strongly condemn the Israeli move to deport President Yasser Arafat from the Palestinian territories, as well as the continued Israeli aggression against the Palestinian people. We have consistently supported the just struggle of the Palestinian people to regain their inalienable rights and to establish an independent Palestinian State with Al- Quds as its capital. We call upon the members of the Quartet, particularly the United States, to ensure the implementation of the road map for peace. While we sincerely believe that the United Nations has an important role to play in the peace process, we are also convinced that the United States needs to remain actively engaged, as it currently is, in a spirit of sincerity, in the search for a just, permanent and lasting peace in the region. The international community should maintain the high priority that it has accorded to disarmament and arms control efforts, without any discrimination among nations or regions, with a view to making the world a more peaceful place. The international community must strengthen and improve the enforcement of the non-proliferation regime. In this context, we believe that the United Nations not only must be at the centre of the multilateral process, but must remain the principal player in grappling with important global issues. We believe that, with unity of purpose and in a spirit of complementarity, bilateral, regional and multilateral approaches can lead to the resolution of these issues. As the Secretary-General emphasized, the need to reform the United Nations to enable it to face the challenges of a changing world remains paramount. We are convinced that the United Nations, with its universal membership, is not only the sole legitimate body responsible for the preservation and maintenance of international peace and security but also a unique body, capable of achieving the goal of a better and secure world for humankind. We should never, therefore, allow the United Nations to be marginalized or diverted from its role or the principles of the Charter. Maldives remains committed, and will do its utmost to contribute to strengthening the role of the United Nations and to making it more efficient and effective. ﻿My delegation wishes to congratulate you very warmly, Mr. President, on your assumption of the presidency of the world body, and to assure you of its unflinching and continued support for a successful tenure. We would also like to extend our appreciation to your predecessor for successfully directing the affairs of the General Assembly during one of the most trying periods in the recent history of the United Nations. On 19 August 2003, the United Nations was shocked to its foundations by a fatal bomb attack on its headquarters in Baghdad. On behalf of my President and the Government and people of Sierra Leone, I extend our deepest condolences to the United Nations Secretary- General, the United Nations family and the families of all those who perished in that attack. They died for the cause of peace and humanity and for the values and aspirations that the United Nations symbolizes. We call on all members of the United Nations and on other nations to spare no measures to respect the sanctity of the United Nations, because it is only when that sanctity is respected that the United Nations can fulfil its responsibilities to mankind. The majority of the world's poor and deprived people live in Africa, bedevilled by hunger, disease, mass illiteracy, ignorance, civil conflict, extreme poverty, bad governance, abuses of human rights, inadequate educational opportunities, gender inequality, environmental hazards, poor transport and communications facilities and debt. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) embodies the vision of Africans themselves to rid their continent of those perils and to enjoy a standard of living befitting the twenty-first century. Those goals are also in consonance with the Millennium Development Goals of the Millennium Declaration. My delegation believes that the world will be a better, happier, more tolerant and peaceful place if the goals of those two impressive declarations are attained. We also believe that to achieve those goals, we have to come down from the lofty platform of rhetoric to the practical reality of sincere, honest and sacrificial partnership and collaboration between the haves and the have-nots. Tangible result is the acid-test of the 20 sincerity and honesty of that partnership and collaboration. My delegation wishes to reaffirm Sierra Leone's commitment to the pursuance of the goals of those two development blueprints as the most credible and realistic channels of, and guidelines for, accelerated development. But we, the poor countries, execute those laudable blueprints with great trepidation, because of the devastating effect of the dreadful HIV/AIDS epidemic, which, without universal effort, is bound to cancel out, and even reverse, all development gains. In the light of that, my delegation proposes that antiretroviral drugs be made available as a matter of human right to everyone everywhere who may need it. Sierra Leone has in recent years repeatedly reiterated its faith in the United Nations as the only Organization that can hold the crisis-ridden world together. My delegation wishes to reaffirm that faith, which is built on the conviction that collective action is the strength of the Organization. As we are all aware, deviating from the principle of collective action can subject the United Nations to tremendous strain; it can even hamstring the Organization, leaving us a weak and divided family. My delegation calls upon all nations big and small, rich and poor to uphold that principle as the Organization's driving force. The unity of purpose and collective action of the United Nations are even more imperative in the context of the ever-increasing demands placed upon it by the numerous conflicts and humanitarian crises to which it has to respond. The expansion and complexity of those challenges reinforce the need for collaboration and partnership with continental and regional organizations such as the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to resolve crises. It is the considered view of my delegation that such collaboration and partnership, designed and financially and materially facilitated, can respond to conflicts and other crises much more speedily and productively than can a distant and overstretched United Nations alone. We are of the firm conviction that the hundreds of thousands of lives that have been lost in the West African subregion, especially in Sierra Leone and Liberia, would have been saved if such a functional relationship, predicated on proactive conflict prevention, had existed between the United Nations and ECOWAS. Two of the most worrying challenges to peace are terrorism and the proliferation of arms, including weapons of mass destruction. We unreservedly deplore terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and we reaffirm our commitment to resolving differences and conflicts through non-violent means. The proliferation of small arms in the West African subregion is of special concern to Sierra Leone. While a multi-pronged strategy to rid the country of small weapons, including an arms-for-development project spearheaded by the United Nations Development Programme, has yielded encouraging and hopeful results, we believe that only a concerted regional approach that includes genuine and selfless political will can eliminate that scourge from the region. The Government and people of Sierra Leone have accepted the challenge to recover from the scourge of the war and to rejoin the path of development. Accordingly, a comprehensive national recovery programme has been designed to respond to post- conflict rehabilitation and reconstruction needs and to lay the foundations to address the issues that generated the conflict. A priority component of the recovery process is the consolidation of democratic governance. Preparations for nation-wide local government elections are in the ultimate stages. We attach considerable significance to those elections, because they will constitute a major step in the process of decentralization, around which the scheme of our participatory governance is going to revolve. In order to tackle some of the root causes that created the wedge between the people and successive Governments, which partly caused the conflict, we have embarked on a fundamental governance reform programme that involves the judiciary, public service, human rights, accountability and transparency, local government and tackling corruption and abuse of power. We have made remarkable progress in the area of security, which is the prerequisite for our national revival and development. An international military advisory and training team led by the United Kingdom has provided training that has considerably enhanced the professional competence of our armed forces. With that training has come renewed confidence in the armed forces, as indicated by the nationwide deployment of personnel. With support from the Government of the United Kingdom, our police force has also been trained, restructured and equipped to carry out its responsibilities. But with war anywhere in 21 the subregion, Sierra Leone never feels safe and secure. That is why we welcome, with profound appreciation to ECOWAS and the United Nations, the initiative to put the region on a path to peace. While welcoming the relief provided by positive developments in the Liberian peace process, my delegation feels that we are duty bound to urge the international community to never again fall into complacency about conflicts, as it did in the case of Liberia. My delegation is very conscious of the heavy investment of the United Nations and the international community, which has yielded the peace Sierra Leone now enjoys. The momentum to consolidate the hard- won peace and embark on a meaningful course of development is our highest priority. That is why we whole-heartedly welcome the Security Council's programme for the phased withdrawal of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone, which is based on the capacity of our security forces to discharge their functions and on the overall security environment in Sierra Leone and the subregion. I am happy to report that the re-establishment of civil authority throughout the country has been one of our major post-conflict accomplishments. Legal and judicial law-enforcement administrations have been reactivated in parts of the country that were previously under rebel occupation, and schools and health facilities, along with better social facilities, are being rehabilitated and reopened. On the economic front, the certificate of origin regime for the export of diamonds is producing positive results, as proceeds from the sale of diamonds continue to rise steadily. New areas of alluvial diamond deposits have been discovered, and prospecting for kimberlite deposits continues. Various regulatory procedures, including legislation and expert advice, are in the pipeline to curtail illegal exploitation and to ensure that Sierra Leoneans derive the benefit they deserve from that resource. Two transitional bodies the Special Court to try those who bear the greatest responsibility for the human rights excesses in the war, and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission that was set up for victims and perpetrators of abuses to tell their stories, thereby laying the foundation for healing, reconciliation and forgiveness are on course to achieve their objectives. The future of 57,000 ex-combatants is a major factor in the management of the costly peace that is so relished today in Sierra Leone. The process of re- absorbing those people into society as law-abiding, peaceful, productive and patriotic citizens has been slow, tedious and expensive. But we have had to attempt that character transformation exercise as a conflict-relapse prevention mechanism. With that reorientation, our governance reform programme and our sound youth policy, which makes ex-combatants and other young people stakeholders in society, the possibility of resorting to violence and destruction as the only way to vent grievances and resolve conflict has been reduced. Our other area of grave concern is the welfare of the hundreds of thousands of children who missed opportunities for education because of the war. The magnitude of the problem is such that we have had to form a special commission for war-affected children. Let me conclude by reassuring the United Nations that the heavy investment in peace in Sierra Leone has not gone, and will never go, in vain. We are determined to do whatever we can to protect and consolidate the peace for which we have all sacrificed so much. We fully recognize our responsibility as the model of success for United Nations peacekeeping. We wish to give the same reassurances to our many friends for their wonderful contributions in various forms over the years. Those include the British, Chinese, American, Nigerian and Guinean Governments and the European Union. ﻿I should like to congratulate you, Sir, upon your election as President of the General Assembly, and to wish you every success in the performance of your duties. Despite the anxiety that we feel in the face of the terrorism that is affecting so many countries, we reaffirm our commitment to fight that scourge until we have defeated it. Colombia reaffirms its faith in multilateralism as the most effective system through which to seek peace, security and human, economic and social development. The United Nations is irreplaceable, even if, for the good of the humanity, its structure and procedures must be constantly updated so as to increase the efficiency of its anti-terrorism activities. The United Nations itself recently suffered a terrorist attack, an act that resulted in the death of Sergio Vieira de Mello, a tireless campaigner for the coexistence of peoples. We deeply regret the loss of those who have sacrificed their lives as they worked to put an end to terrorism. Our obligation to reciprocate is all the greater as a result of the solidarity expressed by the United Nations towards Colombia. A year ago in the General Assembly I set out my democratic security policy, developed to free the Colombian people from terrorism. That policy is designed to protect the rights of all citizens, regardless of their social or economic status, political ideas or religious beliefs. The policy affords equal protection to business and union leaders as well as Government and opposition politicians. It is based on the dream of a pluralist nation that shares in an ongoing constructive debate in a spirit of brotherhood and without hatred. In an area of Colombia covering almost 1.2 million square kilometres, about 400,000 of them consisting of jungle, terrorists have taken advantage of the absence of a State presence in many places. A year ago, out of a total of 1,100 municipalities, 170 did not have a police presence. That number has been reduced to 151, and we hope to extend coverage to all the municipalities within a few weeks. Hundreds of smaller towns, however, lack a police force. We now have soldiers and marines — known as soldiers of the people — in 439 municipalities, under a programme that allows them to carry out their military service in their home town. The results thus far have been positive, and when the soldiers have completed their active duty, we hope to rely on them as permanent law- enforcement leaders. Such efforts, together with others that we have undertaken in similar areas, must continue so that the Government can rid the country of terrorism. I would like to share with the Assembly some of the achievements of my Administration during the first nine months of this year. The murder rate has decreased by 22 per cent when compared with the same period in 2002 — down from 21,253 to 16,531. The total of 1,485 kidnappings represents a reduction of 34.7 per cent over the same period last year; the number of victims of illegal road blocks decreased by 49 per cent, and the number of operations to rescue kidnapped people increased by 22.8 per cent. But what country could accept 1,485 kidnappings in nine months? The number of massacres and the number of their victims have decreased by 35 per cent and 41 per cent respectively. We will be able to claim victory only when we have completely eliminated these attacks. Every terrorist act brings suffering to the whole nation. FARC carried out the car bombing of the club El Nogal, used a bomb in a boat in the rural town of Puerto Rico and exploded a truck bomb in the small town of Chita. These bombings together killed 47 people and injured 233. And just a few hours ago, in Florencia, another bomb has left 12 dead and wounded 46. The number of union members assassinated has declined from 120 to 36. Several of those responsible are now in jail, as a result of our determination to fight impunity. Sixty teachers were murdered in 2002. This year, 24 such cases have been reported. The number of journalists murdered has dropped from 9 to 5. The decrease in overall crime is significant, but the numbers are still staggering. No country could feel safe under such circumstances. I reaffirm our democratic desire to protect, in particular, our teachers, union leaders and journalists. 9 I acknowledge with great sorrow that the number of indigenous people murdered has increased from 72 to 75. Illegal self-defence groups were responsible for 33 of those cases, with various guerrilla groups being responsible for the remainder. During the first six months of 2003, 73,586 cases of forced displacement were reported. This represents a decrease of 66 per cent. We are beginning successfully to return families to where they came from. I reaffirm our commitment to fight to protect the indigenous communities and to put an end to forced displacement. Of the 246 mayors who in August 2002 were in exile from their municipalities as a result of threats, 191 have now returned, thanks to the improved security situation. The progress we have made in regard to the protection of our citizens encourages us to continue making efforts in that direction. Between 7 August 2002 and 7 August 2003, 2,544 members of illegal self-defence groups were captured, which represents an increase of 146 per cent. The number of those killed in combat by the armed forces has increased by 38.7 per cent, the number of guerrillas captured has increased by 126.3 per cent and the number of those killed in combat has increased by 78 per cent. Because of my pure democratic conviction, I reaffirm our commitment to human rights. We have extended the stay of the Office of the United Nations Commissioner in Bogota. We agree with many of its recommendations. We have no doubt about seeking their implementation, and we will discuss the cases on which we disagree. Our requirement for the soldiers and the police is efficiency and respect for human rights. We encourage and care for our armed forces, as we demonstrated recently with the improvement of our social security system. However, we will not hesitate to send to jail those who break the law. The sacrifice of our soldiers and policemen has been enormous. This year, because of anti-personnel mines alone, 109 soldiers have been killed and 334 have been wounded, many of them mutilated for life. If we request international support, it is because we are open to international monitoring. We respect the human rights organizations and their workers who proceed seriously and we respect their criticism and constructive suggestions. Those organizations contribute to improving democratic conditions. That is why we agree with the Human Rights Watch report on the recruitment of children by terrorist groups. We reserve the right, however, to disagree with false reports which distort our efforts to consolidate a democratic concept of security. As the United Nations has acknowledged, we have made substantial progress in destroying illicit drugs. We have eradicated 70 per cent of illicit crops, and we will not stop until we rid our country of that serious scourge. We have authorized the extradition of 94 persons for drug-trafficking crimes. We have hired 5,400 families as forest rangers, as part of our goal to recruit 50,000 families. They receive economic compensation to replace illicit crops for the purpose of replanting and taking care of the rainforest. A more effective law designed to confiscate illicit drug wealth has allowed for the increase in the number of rulings in one year from 5 to 68. In Colombia’s current situation, terrorism, illicit drugs, violence and insecurity are really the same thing. We plead for a commitment from the world so that we are able to completely defeat drugs. We implore the world not to harbour our terrorists, to help us confiscate their goods and to open their doors only to help peace processes. Our country is a State based on law. We want to overcome terrorism and be able to look to the international community with the certainty that we have acted in strict compliance with the law. In order to fight impunity, we have incorporated the accusatory penal system and oral procedure, which will begin in 2005. At the present time we are introducing a constitutional change to allow the armed forces to proceed with specialized personnel, in cases of terrorism, to carry out raids, conduct property searches and undertake interceptions. Those actions will be conducted with democratic safeguards, allowing for an independent attorney to intervene quickly. The attorney’s office and Congress will be informed. The proposed measures are infinitely less rigorous than the current laws of democracies that do not have the high levels of terrorism that we have in Colombia. 10 This Government found approximately 30,000 people who belong to illegal terrorist organizations, defined in this way because of the nature of their actions. Consideration and reflection on that figure dictates the need to continue with a strong authoritarian policy and of opening avenues for negotiation once hostilities have ceased. I welcome the efforts made by the Secretary- General this past year to seek paths to peace with the FARC. The Government supports his good offices, which, until now, have been unsuccessful because of the lack of willingness on the part of the terrorists. That group has kidnapped hundreds of Colombians and some foreign citizens, most of whom are kept in concentration camps that recall the Nazi era. I reaffirm to the Secretary-General my commitment to find a solution, to be recommended by him, to free the hostages, under conditions that are in keeping with legal norms and that do not intensify violence. Since the last Colombian Government, we have sought, through Cuba, on the one hand, and several additional Governments on the other, a peace process with the National Liberation Army (ELN). We have made every effort, which, to date, has been futile. The leaders of that group who are in jail have received the best treatment possible. On 30 June, through a facilitation commission, I offered to examine an ELN prisoner release proposal, in exchange for their renunciation of armed activity and their dedication to help achieve peace. I did not get a positive response, but I will continue to insist on this. The ELN is holding seven foreign citizens whom it should release, in keeping with its promise to cease its crimes during the current electoral process. Since the last Government, we have also sought a peace process with the illegal paramilitary groups, with the mediation of the Catholic Church. The condition is the same — the cessation of hostilities. Groups of those organizations, which represent 10,000 or more people, have expressed the willingness to demobilize. The Government is making progress in that process. During my Administration, 2,250 members of terrorist groups have been demobilized; 70 per cent of them belong to the FARC, 18 per cent to the ELN and 12 per cent to illegal paramilitary groups. To reintegrate members of the various groups into civilian life, Colombia requires a judicial framework that realistically defines how to achieve justice, repair damage to the community and ensure peace. The alternative sentence proposal, submitted by the Government for congressional consideration, sets forth a legal and transparent procedure that will allow for progress towards a negotiated peace solution with the illegal paramilitary groups, the FARC and the ELN. I understand the concern raised by offering diminished sentences for grave crimes. But, in a context of 30,000 terrorists, it must also be understood that a definitive peace is the best justice for a nation in which several generations have never gone through a single day without experiencing an act of terrorism. The proposal has prompted national and international controversy. We are looking for the broadest possible consensus. We invite everyone to examine the various options and to achieve, through the process of amendments, the best final text. We have no doubt about defeating terrorism. However, there are times that call for adjusting the equation between justice and peace in order to reach a consolidated peace. We agree with what was expressed by Secretary- General Kofi Annan, who has proposed an excellent balance between the need for justice and the need to save innocent lives. To protect our communities, we need to pursue terrorists relentlessly and not miss opportunities to obtain peace agreements with them, provided that, through their actions, they convince the Colombian people and the world of their good faith and their desire for rectification. Our problem is an international threat. If Colombia does not destroy illegal drugs, illegal drugs will destroy the Amazon Basin. If Colombia does not stop terrorism, it will jeopardize the democracies of the region. The President of Ecuador, Lucio Gutiérrez, and the Rio Group, have understood that. The Rio Group endorsed the proposal that the United Nations continue to make efforts for negotiations with the Colombian terrorists, or, if that is not possible, to seek alternatives to overcome the problem. Our rule of law calls for a social commitment. Poverty and inequality have worsened as a result of terrorism. We are making progress with limited resources in applying the seven tools for equality: an educational revolution, expanded social protection, an economy based on the principle of solidarity, rural social management, management of public services, building a country of owners and improving the quality of urban life. As examples of this, we have created new capacity for 500,000 children in schools, but we still have 1.5 million children who do not have access to primary education. Microcredit has increased by 50 per cent, but we are still far from being a country of owners. The social task is arduous, but with our characteristic determination we will overcome every obstacle in order to build a just society. Security is the most important human right of the poor, who need our policy to be successful so that there can be peace, confidence, investment, employment and equity. Amidst tragedies, the Colombian democracy is vigorous. On 25 October, our citizens will decide whether to accept a referendum to defeat corruption and to strengthen social investment. And the following day the people will elect 30 governors from among 133 candidates; 914 mayors from among 3,441 candidates; 398 deputies from 373 lists composed of 2,723 candidates; approximately 9,000 municipal council members from 6,105 lists with 56,590 candidates; and local administrative boards from 3,156 lists with 13,387 candidates. Today, we live in a pluralistic and enthusiastic democracy, despite the challenge of terrorism. It would be a tragedy if the civilized world does not unite its efforts once and for all to defeat terrorism and to support the democracies that are fighting against it. We need the unity of all democratic people in order to defeat terror.  ﻿There is no reality more oppressive than the silence of a nation. For too long, Afghanistan was a silenced nation, a country without a voice. After decades of being suppressed into silence, our nation is beginning to have a voice of its own. Recovering from the tragedy of war and destruction, Afghanistan is determined to reverse the effects of the suffering it has long endured. A lot has changed in Afghanistan over the last two years. But no change is so critical and pervasive as the animated response of the people of Afghanistan to the recent developments in our country. I find no sight more rewarding than that of our young girls and boys flocking to schools every morning. I find few things more engaging than the company of elderly representatives who come to Kabul from far-flung parts of the country to discuss their priorities for reconstruction. And, in the same order, there is nothing more enthusing than the active participation of Afghan men and women in the process of public consultation for the new constitution. From the public consultations conducted in connection with the constitution drafting process, we know that the people of Afghanistan want a modern, unitary State that is committed to Islamic values and the preservation of peace and national unity, a State that ensures security for all its citizens, enforces justice and the rule of law and promotes prosperity. As in any post-war society, the need for security and for removing the threat of arms and armed factions is a compelling issue for all Afghans. Our people demand the establishment of truly national and competent institutions, notably the army and the police. Afghans want State institutions that are professional and representative and an administration that is efficient and free of corruption. The Afghan people want tolerance for other religions, protection of human rights and affirmative action to promote the rights of women. Since I addressed the Assembly in September of last year, Afghanistan has taken significant strides in the path of post-war reconstruction. While total stability may not have been achieved yet, today Afghanistan is more stable and peaceful than in any other period in its recent history. The International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), to the credit of the participating countries, has done a tremendous job of securing the nation’s capital. That is partly the reason that people from other parts of the country have demanded that ISAF be expanded to their areas, too. We see NATO’s decision to take over the command of ISAF in Kabul as a positive development. The Afghan people have also welcomed the provincial reconstruction teams that are supported by the coalition member States. Reconstruction and security are tied to one another, and we are absolutely certain that no matter what flag they fly, forces that ensure stability will be welcomed throughout Afghanistan. However, we recognize that providing security to the people of Afghanistan is ultimately our own responsibility. We are grateful to the international community, the United States and Germany in particular, for making a determined effort to help us embark on a process of reforming and rebuilding our security institutions, namely the Afghan National Army and the national police. After an arduous process of restructuring, we have just completed the reform of the Ministry of Defence. That step is now paving the way for the implementation of the nation-wide programme on disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, which will begin in earnest in mid-October with assistance from Japan. A Constitution is the bedrock of the modern State. Under the Bonn Agreement, my Government was assigned the historic task of giving Afghanistan its new Constitution. The commission assigned that task has just finished the draft Constitution. The draft will be submitted in December for approval to a constitutional grand council of the Afghan people, which in our language is called a Loya Jirga. Work on the reform of the judicial system and on drafting new secondary laws has also continued, with notable outcomes achieved in recent months. The laws on political parties and banking have now been officially adopted. Having started from a below-zero baseline, the 30 per cent economic growth rate that Afghanistan enjoyed last year is a promising start. Committed as we are to an open-market economy, and seeing the private sector as the true engine for growth, we have moved aggressively to create the legal and financial 7 frameworks needed for a positive environment for the private sector. Our newly adopted laws governing investment, banking and property rights, the new stable currency and the bureaucratic reforms we have enacted provide a liberal and conducive underpinning for rapid economic growth. Like never before, Afghanistan is open to business. Once, in the past, Afghanistan was at the centre of a global threat, that of terrorism. Our vision for the future is that Afghanistan should be a centre for economic opportunity. We do not call ourselves a land- locked country; rather, we are a land-bridging country. Afghanistan connects South Asia, Central Asia and the Middle East, a fact to which geo-strategists have long been attracted. But it is time that Afghanistan’s vast potential for facilitating trade and economic activity is exploited. Through such nationwide programmes as the National Solidarity Programme, the Government aims to take reconstruction to the villages and households of Afghanistan. Perhaps no other priority features more widely in the demands of the Afghan people than the provision of education. Today, fortunately, almost 40 per cent of the students and teachers in primary and secondary education are female. That is a huge increase from the close to zero percentage that we inherited from the Taliban. Millions of textbooks have been published, and schools are being built at a higher rate than ever. However, in other areas of service-provision the need is much greater than our capacity to deliver. The struggle against the production of, and trafficking in, narcotics continues. We see a direct connection between narcotics and terrorism, and it is in our absolute national interest to fight both. Both are transnational challenges. We in the region and in the international community must take the strategic decision, in the spirit of true partnership, to fight against both menaces. As we acknowledge that the road ahead for Afghanistan is long and tortuous, we appreciate the fact that significant achievements have been made over the last two years. The people of Afghanistan are grateful to the international community for its crucial support. While countries that have extended a friendly hand to Afghanistan are far too many to thank individually, it would be unfair not to single out the United States, the European Union and Japan for special thanks. The United States of America has led the international community by example in offering support for Afghanistan. The additional assistance provided to us under the Accelerated Success Initiative will go a long way towards rebuilding our country. The neighbours of Afghanistan also have a special place in our hearts. Our people will always remember the warm welcome they received from their brothers and sisters in Pakistan and Iran. In addition, Afghans hold Secretary-General Kofi Annan and his Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi in very high esteem. Their kind-hearted attention to Afghanistan is highly appreciated. Cognizant of our new situation and the emerging opportunities that exist today, we are determined to build friendly, civil and constructive relationships with countries of the world. We continue to extend a sincere hand of friendship to Pakistan and all our other neighbours on the basis of the requirements of a civilized relationship. We will never permit our territory to be used against any other country, and expect the same in return. We are deeply concerned about the loss of innocent lives in Palestine and Israel. We support the realization of the right to self-determination for our Palestinian brothers and sisters. We are fully committed to remaining a resilient partner with the international community in the fight against terrorism. All the achievements I have just noted amount only to a good beginning. Our challenge is to stay the course. That will depend not only on the resolute determination of the Afghan people, but also on the continued engagement of the international community. While the achievements are significant, and although challenges are inevitable, today, in this forum, I wish to point to what can potentially amount to a critical threat, namely, the ongoing threat of terrorism. The crisis in Afghanistan may well be over, but the forces of violence continue to threaten. Embodied in various manifestations, from militant infiltrations to hateful teachings at places disguised as madrassas, terrorism continues to make inroads into the space of peace and prosperity that we want to secure for our nation. Islam, our universalist religion, has absolutely no place for terrorism. The apostles of hatred who preach murder in the name of religion and who abuse the name 8 of Islam and the sanctity of madrassas are the enemies of Islam. They act against all that Islam teaches, namely, peace, tolerance, compassion, social justice and the good of humanity. Terrorists aim to harm the nation of Afghanistan, a deeply believing Muslim nation that is averse to extremism. They pose a threat to the process of reconstruction in Afghanistan. Terrorists see their lasting defeat in the success of reconstruction. They are therefore maliciously intent on derailing the process of reconstruction in Afghanistan. That must stop. We must defeat the forces and ideas of violence in the region. Today terrorism is a liability to the Governments in the region. Governments must stop using extremism as an instrument of policy. As long as terrorism survives in this part of the world, neither Afghanistan nor our neighbours, nor indeed the rest of the world, can be safe. ﻿I begin by paying a tribute to Dr. Akila Al-Hashimi, a senior member of the Iraqi Governing Council, who died earlier today. I had the privilege of meeting Dr. Al-Hashimi earlier this year in London and later in Baghdad, and I was struck by her courage and her dedication to the Iraqi people. Dr. Al-Hashimi was murdered by those who would deny the Iraqi people the democratic, prosperous future they so richly deserve. The best service that we can render her memory is to defeat the terrorists and to ensure that her vision of a peaceful, free Iraq prevails. Of course, we owe this service to all those who have fallen in the cause of peace in Iraq. Sergio Vieira de Mello and the United Nations personnel who were killed or injured in the blast in Baghdad on 19 August were committed to bringing the ideals of the United Nations to the people of Iraq. They paid the ultimate sacrifice for their dedication. We mourn their loss, but we will not weaken in our resolve to help the Iraqi people rebuild their country on the principles of justice and security. What, I think, makes Iraq so important was the way in which it tested the role and purpose of this institution over more than a dozen years. Throughout that period, the international community remained in agreement that the regime of Saddam Hussein posed a Chapter VII threat to international peace and security by its proliferation of weapons of mass destruction programmes and its unparalleled defiance of the will of the United Nations. Yet, earlier this year, sadly, we divided on when and what action was necessary to deal with the Iraqi threat. Of course, I acknowledge the controversy over the military action which the United Kingdom, the United States and others took and the heavy responsibilities we now bear, but I firmly believe that the decisions we took were the right ones. The authority of the United Nations was at stake. Having given Saddam Hussein’s regime a final opportunity to comply with the United Nations, what would have happened if we had simply turned away? Would the world be a safer place today? Would Iraq be a better place today? Would the United Nations be a stronger institution today? The answer to each of those questions is no. Saddam Hussein would have been emboldened by our failure to act; every dictator would have been encouraged to follow his example; and the authority of this United Nations would have been gravely weakened. Yet, whatever the arguments of the spring, we have now to come together again for a common purpose. As the Security Council has recognized in its three resolutions 1472 (2003), 1483 (2003) and 1500 (2003), we have a shared interest in helping Iraqi citizens to embrace the rights and freedoms which they have been denied so long and for which this institution was founded. Yes, the security situation does present formidable challenges. Terrorists who despise freedom are seeking to plunge Iraq into chaos. They have inflicted terrible blows on the Iraqi people, coalition soldiers and international aid workers, but ultimately they will fail. And let us also not lose sight of what has been achieved and what is taking shape. Saddam Hussein’s reign of terror is over. The apparatus of torture and oppression which claimed hundreds of thousands of 31 lives is at an end. Instead, we have the beginnings of a representative Government run by Iraqis for Iraqis; new ministries providing daily services to the people; a free press; the freedom for members of all religious communities to worship as they wish; hospitals and schools in operation; bustling traffic on the streets and highways; and a start to real economic regeneration. We shall stay in Iraq as long, but only as long, as it is necessary to meet our clear responsibilities and to restore sovereignty to the Iraqi people as quickly as we can in an orderly manner. I hope very much that we can agree a new Security Council resolution to strengthen the United Nations role in Iraq. In managing this transition, we should be guided by three central principles: first, the transfer of powers must reflect realities on the ground in Iraq, particularly the need to ensure security; secondly, the Iraqi institutions must be sufficiently robust to take on increasing responsibilities; and thirdly, the exercise of executive powers and responsibilities must be based on good governance, involving representative Iraqi authorities and coherent constitutional arrangements. In other words, the timetable should be driven by the needs of the Iraqi people and their capacity progressively to assume democratic control, rather than by fixing arbitrary deadlines. Iraq is, sadly, not the only territory in the Middle East where the international community faces great challenges. Three months ago, we all had high hopes about the work of the Quartet of the United Nations, the European Union, the Russian Federation and the United States in Israel and the occupied territories. It is tragic that these hopes were blown apart on 19 August by the terrorist atrocity in Jerusalem, which came only a few hours after the terrorist atrocity against the United Nations in Baghdad, but the international community has to stay united on both the means and the ends in the Middle East. There are no alternatives to the road map and there can be no alternatives to the outcome the entire world wishes to see — two States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. This can be the only fitting memorial to the thousands who have died on both sides since the beginning of this appalling conflict. The breadth of the issues being tackled by the United Nations and its agencies demonstrates the continued relevance of this institution. The Counter- Terrorism Committee has given the United Nations a focus for its work following September two years ago, but we must now build upon that work, giving the Committee the expertise and the remit to reinforce the capacity of Member States to tackle and to overcome terrorism. We also know that proliferation is one of the greatest threats we face alongside terrorism. Much good work on proliferation is being done by United Nations agencies, particularly the International Atomic Energy Agency, but it is extraordinary that the Security Council itself has not addressed the issue of proliferation for over 10 years. In our judgement, it is time that it did. Problems of internal conflict, on the other hand, are regularly on the Security Council’s agenda. The United Nations has unrivalled expertise and experience in this area and has achieved great things in countries as far apart as East Timor and Sierra Leone, but nation- building is a collaborative effort, requiring the resources and commitment of Member States if the United Nations peace-building is to be effective. We therefore need new mechanisms to help prevent conflicts and then to help States before they collapse. We must also make a real success of the Millennium Declaration. We have to overcome the setback of Cancún and secure a positive outcome to the Doha Round. These and other shared problems require collective responses, as our Secretary-General so eloquently said here in his speech on Tuesday. A key to this is to ensure that the United Nations itself remains an effective global forum capable of delivering results. The Secretary-General posed some difficult questions two days ago. I welcome his initiative to seek the advice of a distinguished group to make proposals on reform. I welcome, too, his parallel commitment to modernizing the United Nations and its agencies. For our part, the United Kingdom is committed to making the Security Council more representative. The issue is not whether but how to do this. A bigger and more representative Council, however, will not of itself make it easier to make the tough choices which it has to face so often. The most important ingredient is the political will and determination of the members of the Council to take effective action. The most important part of the Secretary- General’s speech on Tuesday was about the choices now confronting the United Nations. He was right about those. We have indeed come to a fork in the road. 32 Down one route lies a world in which the United Nations strengthens its role as the collective instrument for protecting our peace and security; down the other route lies a world in which collective action becomes a synonym for “inaction”. We must not take this second route. The Secretary-General’s speech was a challenge to all of us. We all share a world in which international terrorists strike down the innocent, regardless of faith or nationality, and we are all less secure when weapons of mass destruction are in reckless hands. We do not have the luxury simply of rejecting unilateralism, while proposing no multilateral means of confronting and dealing with these threats. The British Government is profoundly committed, as it always has been, to the ideals of the United Nations. To us, the importance of this Organization has always been its ability to put those high ideals into effect. We will work wholeheartedly with the Secretary-General and the international community to ensure that the United Nations retains and strengthens both its idealism and its effectiveness.   ﻿Mr. President, we congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the fifty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly. We wish you every success in our shared endeavours. You will have our fullest cooperation in your efforts. As we gather here, in the wake of the many momentous events over the past year, it is inevitable that we should ponder some fundamental questions about the role and relevance of the United Nations. The United Nations was charged by its Charter “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war.” The Charter also speaks of our collective determination “to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security.” There was an implicit conviction that the United Nations would be stronger than the sum of its constituent Member States. Its unique legitimacy flows from a universal perception that it pursues a larger purpose than the interests of one country or a small group of countries. This vision of an enlightened multilateralism has not materialized. There have been difficulties and deficiencies in ensuring a world free from strife, a world without war. The United Nations has not always been successful in preventing conflicts or in resolving them. During the past year, the United Nations encountered new challenges. We saw the extraordinary inability of the five permanent members of the Security Council to agree on action in respect of Iraq, in spite of complete agreement on basic objectives. Most recently, the brutal terrorist attack on the United Nations Office in Baghdad struck a body blow at the United Nations’ humanitarian efforts there. Looking back at events over recent years, we can analyse the successes and failures of the United Nations in this or that crisis. But it would be more purposeful to reflect on our own commitment to multilateralism, the extent of its applicability in the real world of today, and the manner in which it can be exercised through the United Nations. The reality is that an international institution like the United Nations can only be as effective as its Members allow it to be. Our reflections on the United Nations should focus on three key aspects: First, we need to introspect on some of the assumptions that have been made over the years concerning the will and reach of the United Nations. In the euphoria after the Cold War, there was a misplaced notion that the United Nations could solve every problem anywhere. Its enthusiasm and proactive stance on many issues reflected laudable intentions. But we soon realized that the United Nations does not possess magical powers to solve every crisis in all parts of the globe or to change overnight the motivation of leaders and communities around the world. //We need to clearly recognize, with a sense of realism, the limits to what the United Nations can achieve, and the changes of form and function required for it to play an optimal role in today’s world. We need to clearly recognize, with a sense of realism, the limits to what the United Nations can achieve, and the changes that it needs to make to its form and function to play an optimal role in today’s world. Secondly, the Iraq issue has inevitably generated a debate on the functioning and the efficacy of the Security Council and of the United Nations itself. Over the decades, the United Nations membership has grown enormously. The scope of its activities has expanded greatly, with new specialized agencies and new programmes. But in the political and security dimensions of its activities, the United Nations has not kept pace with the changes in the world. For the Security Council to represent genuine multilateralism in its decisions and actions, its membership must reflect current world realities. Most United Nations Members today recognize the need for an enlarged and restructured Security Council, with more developing countries as permanent and non-permanent members. The permanent members guard their exclusivity. Some States with weak claims want to ensure that others do not enter the Council as permanent members. This combination of complacency and negativism has to be countered with a strong political will. The recent crises should serve as a warning to us that until the Security Council is reformed and restructured, its decisions cannot truly reflect the collective will of the community of nations. Thirdly, even after such reform, the Security Council would have to develop suitable decision- making mechanisms that ensure better representation of the collective will of the international community. How can multilateralism be genuinely implemented? A single veto is an anachronism in today’s world. On the other hand, the requirement of unanimity can sabotage imperative actions. A simple-majority vote may not be 15 sufficiently representative for major and serious issues. Should we aim for the highest common factor, or should we settle for the lowest common denominator? Democratic countries could use their national experience to provide feasible models for mechanisms and determine the extent of support required based on the impact of action to be taken. The Secretary-General has rightly emphasized the urgent need for reform of the institutions and processes of the United Nations. We encourage his efforts in this direction. We should seek to implement these reforms within a specified time frame. The Iraq issue continues to present a major challenge to the United Nations. At this point in time, it is not very productive to linger on the past. Our thoughts and concerns should be about the suffering of the people of Iraq. It is imperative that the people of Iraq should be empowered to determine their own future and to rebuild their nation. The immediate priorities are ensuring security and stability, restoration of basic facilities and infrastructure and a road map of political processes for a representative Iraqi Government. It is clear that the United Nations has a crucial role to play in the process of political and economic reconstruction of that country. This has been acknowledged both by those who had opposed military action and by those who did not seek specific United Nations endorsement for it. One issue on which the United Nations showed remarkable unanimity after 11 September was global terrorism. Security Council resolutions 1373 (2001) and 1456 (2003) were unequivocal in condemning all forms of terrorism and in calling for united action against support, shelter, sponsorship, arming, training and financing of terrorism or terrorists. Unfortunately, the solidarity that was voiced has not translated into coherent and effective action. Terrorist acts continue to shatter our peace, from Mombasa to Moscow and from Baghdad to Bali. India has had more than its share of terrorism in various parts of the country. The global coalition against terrorism has registered successes in Afghanistan, but has not been able to extend this elsewhere. Some of its members are themselves part of the problem. We are sometimes led to enter into semantic arguments over the definition of terrorism. The search for root causes or imaginary freedom struggles provides alibis for killing innocent men, women and children. There is much that the United Nations can do to carry forward the war against international terrorism. The Counter-Terrorism Committee should develop measures to ensure compliance by Member States of their obligations under Security Council resolutions 1373 (2001) and 1456 (2003). We should have credible multilateral instruments to identify States that contravene these resolutions. Multilateral mechanisms must be created to detect and choke off international financial flows to terrorists and terrorist organizations. A much better international system of information exchange and intelligence sharing needs to be devised to prevent terrorists from evading capture simply by crossing national borders. No State should be allowed to profess partnership with the global coalition against terror, while continuing to aid, abet and sponsor terrorism. To condone such double standards is to contribute to multiplying terrorism. Yesterday, the President of Pakistan chose this august Assembly to make a public admission for the first time that Pakistan is sponsoring terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. After claiming that there is an indigenous struggle in Kashmir, he has offered to encourage a general cessation of violence within Kashmir, in return for reciprocal obligations and restraints. We totally refuse to let terrorism become a tool of blackmail. Just as the world did not negotiate with al Qaeda or the Taliban, we shall not negotiate with terrorism. Were we to do so, we would be betraying the people of Jammu and Kashmir, who defied a most ferocious campaign of violence and intimidation sponsored from across our borders and participated in an election, which has been universally hailed as free and fair. This was an unequivocal expression of both determination and self-determination. When the cross-border terrorism stops, or when we eradicate it, we can have a dialogue with Pakistan on the other issues between us. While on this subject, I would also like to point out to the President of Pakistan that he should not confuse the legitimate aspiration for equality of nations with outmoded concepts of military parity. We should be particularly concerned at the various recent revelations about clandestine transfers of weapons of mass destruction and their technologies. We face the frightening prospect of these weapons and technologies falling into the hands of terrorists. Surely 16 something needs to be done about the helplessness of international regimes in preventing such transactions, which clearly threaten international security. The same regimes expend considerable energy in imposing a variety of discriminatory technology-denial restrictions on responsible States. Our preoccupation with terrorism should not dilute our commitment to tackle the non-military threats to human and international security. We have to sustain the fight against trafficking in narcotic drugs, human beings and small arms, the pandemic of HIV/AIDS, diseases like malaria and tuberculosis that beset developing countries and the degradation of our common environment. Food security, energy security and health security are important goals. The countries of the North and of the South — the developed, developing and transition economies — must resume their dialogue to build a better world for the present and future generations. For the agenda of globalization, Cancún was a disappointment. Significant progress was made at Johannesburg towards the realization of sustainable development, but the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change remains stalled and the Convention on Biological Diversity has not yielded any tangible benefits to the world’s poor. International economic relations continue to be characterized by inequities and inequalities. Globalization has helped sections of the international economy, including some developing countries; however, large communities have been left outside its pale. It has engendered economic crises and instability in several developing countries and sharply increased poverty. Poverty is multidimensional. It extends beyond money and income to education, health care, skills enhancement, political participation at all levels from the local to the global, access to natural resources, clean water and air, and advancement of one’s own culture and social organization. Poverty alleviation requires resources on a far greater scale than now available. Globalization itself places constraints on Governments of developing countries in raising public resources for poverty alleviation. The promise of the climate change and biodiversity treaties to raise significant resources for investment and technology transfer is as yet unrealized. The resources of multilateral and bilateral development agencies are limited by the failure of industrialized countries to enhance development budgets. Therefore, if the current regimes of globalization and sustainable development are to be expanded — or even to survive — they must be directly harnessed to provide the necessary resources for poverty alleviation. In fact, all international agreements and initiatives affecting developing countries have to be evaluated by their impact on poverty. Developing countries need to coordinate their positions in international negotiations to promote the adoption of regimes which would help alleviate poverty. The India-Brazil-South Africa Dialogue Forum, which was established earlier this year, is an effort in this direction. We in the developing countries do not have the luxury of time. Political compulsions force us to meet the aspirations of our people quickly, even as we subject ourselves to newer and more rigid international standards and norms. We owe it to our future generations to make strong efforts to meet the Millennium Development Goals. There is a mutuality of interest in this between the developed and the developing countries. Global interdependence today means that economic disasters in developing countries could create a backlash in developed countries. We hope the world will act in this spirit of enlightened self-interest. ﻿On behalf of the United Arab Emirates, I have the honour to extend to Mr. Hunte and to his friendly country, Saint Lucia, our sincerest congratulations on his election to the presidency of the General assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I should also like to thank his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his valuable efforts and effective leadership of the previous session. On this occasion, I would also like to express our appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his wise leadership and perseverance in his efforts to enhance the role of the United Nations in maintaining peace, security and sustainable development. Despite our hopes and the great humanitarian expectations that we entertained with the dawn of the new millennium, there remain many regional and international issues that have not been resolved and are a major concern to us all. They represent a serious threat to international peace and security, as well as to the stability, development and prosperity of peoples, all of which depend on respect for and implementation of the norms of international laws, and conventions. The regrettable events that our world is witnessing today are but the natural aftermath of the previous political era, which was characterized by conflicts, occupation, oppression, injustice, the violation of human rights and wars that led to a wide range of arm races at the expense of human, economic and environmental development. If we are to confront and contain these challenges and their repercussions, it is 17 important to reform the United Nations and all its main bodies — especially the Security Council, the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council — as well as to enhance cooperation and coordination between these international organizations and regional organizations. Maintaining stability and security in the Arab Gulf area is an essential priority, not only for the peoples of the region, but also for the entire world. Accordingly, within the framework of the Gulf Cooperation Council and of bilateral, regional and international relations, the United Arab Emirates has adopted a foreign policy based on peaceful coexistence, confidence-building, good-neighbourliness, mutual respect, non-interference in the internal affairs of others, the settlement of disputes and the ending of occupation by peaceful means. On the basis of its commitment to these doctrines and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the United Arab Emirates believes that the way to end the occupation of its three islands — Greater Tumb, Lesser Tumb and Abu Moussa — by the Islamic Republic of Iran is by peaceful means that would spare the region from the atrocities of warfare from which its people have suffered for the past three decades. Therefore, the United Arab Emirates reiterates its call on the Islamic Republic of Iran to reconsider its position and to respond to the peaceful initiative that we announced a few years ago, which calls on both countries to engage in serious bilateral negotiations or to resort to the International Court of Justice, as has been done in other bilateral issues that have been settled in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the provisions of international law. The question of the three occupied islands, which belong to the United Arab Emirates, has been on the agenda of the Security Council since their occupation by Iran in 1971. In this regard, we reaffirm the complete sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates over Greater Tumb, Lesser Tumb and Abu Moussa and on their regional air space and waters, the continental shelf and the economic zone of the three islands, which are considered an indivisible part of the regional sovereignty of the United Arab Emirates. The United Arab Emirates calls on the Iranian Government to address this sensitive and important issue in a positive spirit in order to end the occupation. We hope that the current bilateral communications and meetings between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran will lead to a solution that will cement their good-neighbourly relations, enhance cooperation and mutual interests between the two countries, and strengthen the foundations of security, stability and prosperity in this important region. Since the last session of the General Assembly, the world has witnessed many changes in the political and security fields that have had a strong impact on our international relations, especially those related to peace and security in the Arab Gulf region. This has had consequences and repercussions that may undermine the foundations of peace, stability and development in the area and the world. The United Arab Emirates, which is deeply concerned about the continued suffering of the brotherly Iraqi people and the deterioration of their humanitarian, security, social, economic and environmental conditions, reaffirms that the restoration of security and stability in Iraq and the country’s return to the international community will not be achieved without the collective efforts of the regional and international community to help the Iraqi people reform their constitutional and developmental institutions and to enable them to manage their internal affairs and external relations with their neighbours and other countries so that they can play their responsible and historic role in the region. We therefore reiterate our expression of welcome and support for the efforts made by the provisional Iraqi Governing Council and the interim Iraqi Administration. We hope that the United Nations will play an increasingly important role in resolving the situation in Iraq; in its reconstruction; in maintaining its territorial integrity, unity and the right of its people to self-determination; in the election of its Government; in its political future; and in the exploitation of its natural resources. The United Arab Emirates has been closely following the dangerous developments in the occupied Palestinian territories. We condemn the policies of targeted killings and closure being carried out by Israel, in violation of all relevant international and humanitarian laws. We therefore call upon the Quartet and on other influential countries to revitalize the peace process and to compel Israel to implement the road map, which stipulates an end to the Israeli occupation and the establishment of a Palestinian State by 2005. The road map also calls on Israel to refrain from building illegal settlements and to ensure the return of the refugees. 18 We demand that Israel cease placing obstacles in the way of the implementation of the road map — obstacles such as the killing and destruction perpetrated by Israeli occupying forces against Palestinians and their property in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. We also demand that Israel lift the unjust siege on President Yasser Arafat and the Palestinian people, dismantle the separation fence and release Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons. A fair, lasting and comprehensive settlement of the Middle East conflict requires a commitment by Israel to adhere to international resolutions, which are based on the principle of land for peace; the Arab peace initiative, endorsed by the Beirut Summit, including the Syrian and Lebanese tracks; and Israeli withdrawal from all Palestinian and Arab lands occupied since 1967, including Al-Quds Al-Sharif, the Syrian Golan and the Lebanese Shaba’a Farms area. The Middle East region, including the Arab Gulf, must be freed of all weapons of mass destruction, and Israel must join the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and subject its nuclear facilities to the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency, pursuant to relevant United Nations resolutions. The United Arab Emirates condemns all forms and manifestations of terrorism. We call for the mustering of national, regional and international efforts to combat and eradicate such a dangerous phenomenon, because it is exploited by radicals and outlaws as means to achieve their destructive goals. In this respect, we express our deepest sorrow following the criminal attack perpetrated against the United Nations headquarters, as well as against the Jordanian Embassy in Baghdad and against the Imam Ali mosque in Najaf, which resulted in the killing of Imam Mohammed Baqer Alhakeem and a number of innocent victims. We stand shoulder to shoulder with those countries that have been the targets of terrorist criminal attacks, in particular our brothers in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We express our support for all the measures taken by Saudi Arabia to eradicate these terrorist activities. In the meantime, we call on the international community to convene an international conference to tackle terrorism and eradicate its causes and tools. We also reaffirm the importance of respect for human rights, transparency and openness based on mutual respect of the cultural heritage and the beliefs of peoples, so as to avoid creating a fertile breeding ground for frustration and hatred from which the terrorists derive their raison d’être and their motivation. Despite the numerous international conferences, particularly the World Summit on Sustainable Development and the International Conference on Financing for Development, aimed at tackling the imbalance in international economic relations and its effect on international economic development, the majority of the world’s people continue to live in unstable and inhuman conditions, characterized by increased poverty, the spread of disease and illiteracy, because of the increasing economic gap between developed and developing countries. Developed countries must commit to implementing the pledges they made according to international resolutions. From this perspective, the United Arab Emirates calls on the international community to fulfil its commitment to providing development assistance to poor countries, in particular the least developed countries. International financial and development institutions as well as the private sector should plan strategies geared towards providing financial and development resources in order to implement economic development programmes in developing and poor countries, all within an environmentally friendly framework, ensuring access by such countries to new technologies, in order to alleviate the external debt burden and remove tariffs on international trade, which would benefit all countries of the world. On this occasion, I cannot fail to point out the confidence placed in the United Arab Emirates by the international community through its hosting of the annual meeting of the heads of the International Monetary Fund and of the World Bank in the Emirate of Dubai, a meeting that concluded its work on 24 September. We are very satisfied with the outcome of that meeting, particularly the special attention it focused on the question of development and cooperation for the purpose of alleviating the impact of poverty and debt burdens around the world. In conclusion, the grave challenges facing the international community today bolster our conviction more than ever of the importance of adhering to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of international law, as our point of reference in resolving regional and international disputes and differences. 19 We express the hope that the meetings and debates held during this session of the General Assembly will succeed in strengthening the role of the United Nations as a multilateral Organization and in the maintenance of international peace and security.  ﻿Allow me to congratulate the President on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly. We wish him every success. At the same time, it is a pleasure to greet the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, whose efforts for peace and cooperation between nations we highly value. For that reason, I take this opportunity to express, on behalf of the people of Bolivia and my Government, our sorrow and solidarity in the face of the terrorist attacks against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, which once again demonstrates intolerance for and lack of understanding of a peacekeeping mission, which is the only possible path in our search to resolve conflicts. This attempt strengthens our resolve to fight without giving any quarter against terrorism in any of its forms, but, at the same time, it shows us the need to support the joint efforts of the nations of the world with policies that are debated and adopted at the United Nations. This Organization and its bodies are a fundamental forum where our voice and that of all countries of the world can be heard. For that reason, we also believe that reforms are required to give the Security Council more flexibility and balance in order to guarantee greater participation in the decision- making process. The terrible episodes that we have recently experienced have forced us once again to reconsider the path that many nations have set for themselves in their vision for development. It is a dangerous mistake to believe that we can coexist in a world of isolated and closed compartments. It is not possible to generate growth and well-being for a privileged few and expect that the excluded great majority will look on silently from the fringes of that reality. In our opinion, the only possible path to confront the future is the paradigm of equity. For over a half century, Bolivia has been opening democratic and participative spaces for its people. A nation such as ours, where 62 per cent of the citizens identify themselves as indigenous, must do away with the social, economic and ethnic exclusion that has been a historic millstone that our elite refused to eliminate. The process begun by us with the revolution of 1952 with its successes and set-backs of greater or lesser magnitude is part of our challenge today. This vision is also essential to defending the human rights of those citizens who have been marginalized throughout the course of our history. For one year now, under the administration headed by President Sanchez de Lozada, within the framework of a pluralistic Congress with a very significant percentage of indigenous representatives and of very different ideological positions, we are working to overcome levels of poverty that are threatening to break down the buttresses of order and the population’s faith in democracy, which has been achieved with great sacrifice by the people of Bolivia. Our Government has broadened its political base by integrating another political party, Nueva Fuerza 26 Republicana, into the alliance between the Movimiento Nacionalista Revolucionario and the Movimiento de la Izquierda Revolucionaria in an effort to face an acute economic crisis that has taken the form of a persistent recession, which, fortunately, is beginning to reverse itself. We have implemented a programme that combines efforts to increase State revenues through an increase in public investment in order to stimulate the economy and improve private contribution, create jobs and decrease social inequality. We have given priority to the most vulnerable sectors of our society with measures such as an annual solidarity bonus for all citizens over age 65 and the consolidation of free medical insurance covering mothers and children under the age of five. This task is linked to achieving the Millennium Development Goals, to which we are deeply committed. In February of this year and a few days ago, my country lived through serious episodes of violence, which have forced us to reflect. We are aware of the fact that the last 21 years of democracy — the longest uninterrupted period in our history — are at stake as we face the legitimate pressure exercised by the marginalized sectors of our society, who deserve our attention. Unfortunately, in spite of the new democratic parliamentary participation, we have not yet been able to sustain a real and enriching dialogue about our most severe problems. I am convinced that one of our principal tasks is to generate a fundamental change in the behaviour of political parties and of every politician, but a less radical and more rational attitude of the social sectors in their relationship with the State is also indispensable. We are going through a very difficult time, when compliance with the law and respect for the authority of the State threaten to collapse. Loss of trust in these essential elements of democracy is one of the greatest dangers to the future of our society, which will only achieve its goals if it has a credible and legitimate administration that acts with authority. We are assuming our responsibility in this area. It is the only way we can be tolerant of the ideas of others. Our aim is the urgent search for a true national encounter through national dialogue, an issue that we are deeply committed to, despite the difficulties that must be overcome. One year ago, in this very forum, I said that our Government would make the fight against corruption a State policy. Today I am proud to say that we are fulfilling that commitment. We have established the Secretariat to Combat Corruption, whose tasks are carried out from within the very core of the State, with broad participation from all levels of society, through citizen networks and mobile brigades. In one year of work, we have made public cases of corruption involving State authorities. Corrupt civil servants have been given prison sentences and others are currently on trial for illicit acts. Furthermore, we have expanded the programmes for better management of public entities. We are launching a reform of the judiciary, strengthening a culture in which the rule of law is based on the concept of justice for all. We are also promoting a strategy that will transform political and productive institutions, especially those of the informal sector, and promoting governance that is compatible with fair human development opportunities. Our commitment to fighting illicit drug trafficking remains unchanged. For our country, this task has meant high social, political and economic costs, paid for with the blood of the Bolivian people. The support of the international community in this fight has been an incentive and a security factor. However, our efforts require further support, proportional to the scope of its effect, in Bolivia as well as in those societies where drug consumption remains a priority problem to be solved. We shall continue to honour our commitments, but we shall also continue to insist that the international community fully assume the concept of shared responsibility. For Bolivia, international assistance represents an invaluable support. From this rostrum, I wish to thank the nations and organizations that offer their cooperation, but I emphasize the fact that the most effective assistance is that which respects the decisions and plans of those countries that receive it. Imposing rigid and unilateral prescriptions often generates more problems than it solves. Our continent, Latin America, has seen its role in the international concert diminished. The continent faces several core problems, one of which is the siege of its own democracy by poverty, corruption, inequality and a globalization process of which it is part, but that has not always generated positive results for the area. Integration is the only possible solution if we wish to face the future with optimism. Bolivia is working 27 diligently in this direction, not only because it is a part of subregional blocs, such as the Andean Community and the Common Market of the South — of which it is an associate member — but also because it promotes the integration of both regional groups into one South American body that will provide greater benefits and targeted influence in the region. As hosts for the thirteenth Ibero-American Summit of Heads of State and Government, Bolivia is working for the genuine strengthening of that mechanism, which unites the heads of State and Government of a group of countries whose cultural, political and economic importance throughout the world is continuously growing. In this context, the decisions that will be made to establish the Free Trade Agreement of the Americas must seek a still uncertain balance for the group of member countries, taking into account the enormous gap between the first Power in the world and the poorest nations of the continent, in a way that will truly benefit everybody. This will be possible if and when, beyond trade issues, we prioritize the transport and communications infrastructures, science, the transfer of technology and education. The difficulties emerging from the worldwide debate on international trade are proof once again of the gap to be closed between rich and poor nations. If equity is the foremost exigency of mankind, the only true and effective response in order to achieve it is a fair trade agreement. Poor countries demand access for our products to wealthy countries under fair conditions. This urgent claim is linked to a sustained policy of subsidies and protectionism for key production sectors on the part of the most developed nations. Herein lies one of the basic causes of poverty and social tensions in the least favoured societies. The issue of anti-personnel mines is a very sensitive one for Bolivia, not only as a matter of principle — inasmuch as these lethal artefacts continue to kill or permanently maim people throughout the world — but also because many such mines have been planted along our borders. We vehemently request the Governments responsible for planting these mines to continue their removal and destruction until the areas involved are totally free of mines. Today, more than ever, I wish to confirm before this Assembly that Bolivia will never waive its just claim of sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean, inasmuch as we were established as an independent republic with a sea coast. This claim, which we have been making for over a century, is a product not of stubbornness or caprice, but of the lack of economic resources and huge geographic obstacles that undermine our ability to compete. Our landlocked condition is a deterrent to our growth and the well- being of our citizens, as proven by the analysis of the challenges faced by all landlocked countries. Reintegration of our condition as a maritime nation is a matter of justice and we cannot set it aside. We will therefore continue to call for solidarity and support from the community of nations. Our vocation and our destiny to be integrated with and economically complemented by our neighbours compels us to exhort the Government and people of Chile to act with a view to the future and to repair a historical wrong that has anchored Bolivia to the past century. We are living through difficult times, complex and full of uncertainty. It is our obligation to stop and question the validity of many of the premises in which we believe. No question and no form of questioning is superfluous at a time such as this, in which the search for a clearer and fair horizon is a life or death necessity for our planet.  ﻿Two hundred years after the first cry of freedom in Latin America, our peoples are propelled by new winds of emancipation. A fresh generation of leaders has taken up the old flags of our heroes to demand real global interdependence through an economic order inspired by solidarity and by the building of a lasting peace. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the commendable work that he has done to uphold and promote the principles that were enshrined in the Charter 58 years ago. For too long, Latin America had been on the margins of history. It had been reduced to playing the part of providing inexpensive labour and raw materials to more developed economies, while its most brilliant minds were lured away and absorbed by large urban markets. Our region has also fallen victim to mercenaries, soldiers of fortune and heartless people representing dehumanizing and destructive transnational corporations that overthrew Governments, provoked wars between friendly countries and squandered our countries’ resources. Nevertheless, we are not here to complain about those ignominious days. Nor are we here to cling to the glories of the past. On the contrary, we have come to express our firm will to work together for a dignified present and a secure future for those who are now dying from hunger, thirst, cold and easily preventable and treatable diseases. Our voices today arise from our roots, cultures and traditions, and proclaim a Latin America that is integrated into the world, with a fresh sense of fraternity, to make the lives of our peoples more humane and enriching. We must seek a multipolar world in which cultures enhance rather than confront one another and regional production promotes peace and prosperity in the world to save present and future generations from the terrible scourge of new major conflicts. Let us make a renewed commitment, without scepticism and with the intrinsic dignity that God has bestowed on every human being. In Paraguay, a small but dignified country, we are making a major effort at capacity-building with respect to national and international communities. A sine qua non is to revive production, attract investors back and sell our products on world markets. Although our peoples have suffered long years of recession and deprivation because of the foreign debt burden, my Government has managed to redirect public resources towards education and to coordinate the efforts of civil society and the State to democratize young people’s access to the world of knowledge. Only effective human capital, with ethical principles, will enable us to survive and grow in a climate of globalization. Towards that end, we fervently hope for a globalization that involves not simply economics but also justice, science, technology and development. Our challenge is to achieve global progress. I come from an island surrounded by land, as Paraguay’s renowned writer Augusto Roa Bastos so aptly described the country. But with the advent of democracy, to the credit of the people’s self-sacrifice, our country has restored its identity, memories and dreams. We Paraguayans accept our geographical disadvantage as an opportunity to be creative and industrious, as our development requires. For this reason, we appeal for international solidarity to help to implement the plan of action of Almaty, which is designed to overcome the limitations of landlocked developing countries, including Paraguay. We have a strong ethical belief in this historic objective. The inequality that impoverishes most of the world is immoral. There is not a trace of Christianity in the lack of solidarity with the destitute. In that regard, the individual must be treated as a whole person, so that he may in turn bring well-being to his family, for the sake of all society. If leaders do not provide a moral example, it will not be possible to advance towards a democracy that is embraced by the people and fosters true participation in a society that is distinguished by its moral capital, the essential basis of a humanistic and humanizing economy. A world in crisis requires humanism, not humanitarianism. The world seeks solidarity, and not mere charity. We must understand that the impoverishment of a large share of humankind jeopardizes world balance. It is true that many countries have become impoverished not simply as a result of outside influences but also because of corruption and impunity on the part of local leaders. But it is equally true that without an ethical belief in the international order and the strong will of 5 leaders to praise God and renounce historical patterns of greed of rich countries, the world that we leave to our children will not be fit for living. Unfortunately, while we are shaping a future based on ideals and utopias in this hallowed chamber of world peace, we have not figured out how to end war, since in various parts of the world the arms race continues, as does growing poverty. It bears repeating that, as leaders of our respective countries, we must cease speaking in terms of friends and enemies, which has a weakening and destructive effect. We must use that energy and those resources to ensure just social development in economically less-developed countries. Without pluralistic and equitable participation in crucial international policy decisions discussed here in our Organization and a commitment to multilateralism, the United Nations and, in particular, the Security Council, will inevitably fail in its noble objective of maintaining peace in the world. In this context, Paraguay supports the aspirations of Latin America and other continents to be represented in the Security Council, where the presence of Brazil as a permanent member would fulfil the great and legitimate interests of our region. Paraguay would like to reiterate here its full support for the efforts and aspirations of the Republic of China on Taiwan to become a fully-fledged member of the international community through the United Nations. In this regard, we appeal to the principles of universality contained in the Charter so that this long- overdue and heartfelt desire of the sister Republic of China on Taiwan may be fulfilled. As I said some weeks ago in my own country — and as I reaffirm here — the ethics of fraternity and mutual respect must govern international relations today if humanity is to make progress towards lasting peace inspired by the rule of law and reason. With the same vigour with which we advocate worldwide peace, we condemn terrorism in all its manifestations and sources. In Paraguay, we have pledged — a pledge we are resolutely fulfilling — to combat the breeding grounds of terrorism and its financial support, drug trafficking. We shall not deviate from that commitment. Likewise, we energetically denounce the terrorist action against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad that occurred yesterday and that of 19 August. We mourn the death of outstanding United Nations staff members, including the distinguished Brazilian and Latin American citizen, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In that same line of action, in Paraguay we are dismantling organized crime and money-laundering, regardless of who promotes, conceals or commits those crimes. I reiterate that our country will no longer be a bridge, corridor or end point for such criminal operations. With the same energy with which we combat crime and illegality, we reaffirm our unwavering commitment to respecting human rights, which is an increasingly important part of our domestic and foreign policies, promoting full enjoyment of public and individual freedoms for the peoples of the world. The fight for freedom, democracy, social equity and world peace will be of no avail if we do not more responsibly face the challenges for the preservation of our environment. Let us seek the well-being of our peoples today but not forget that our children will live on this planet tomorrow. In Paraguay and Latin America, we are determined to be the protagonists and architects of a shared destiny of responsibility, justice and equality. Finally, may the new global order be more human, supportive, responsible and participative, and may its essential purpose be to promote development, progress and the well-being of all the peoples of the Earth in an environment that is truly more just, fair and balanced. May God bless us and may we build together the peace that our children and future generations need. ﻿First of all, Sir, allow me to congratulate you on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session and also to commend Mr. Jan Kavan for his outstanding and astute leadership in presiding over the fifty-seventh session. I should like also to commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his dynamism and for the great leadership qualities he continues to display in steering the affairs of the United Nations. I wish to assure you of Malawi’s continued support and cooperation as we deal with the challenges before us. I would like to express Malawi’s sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the senseless and barbaric attack against the headquarters of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq, which resulted in the loss of a number of lives, including that of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. The attack should serve as a warning of our need to remain focused on the fight against terrorism to ensure that the 20 war against that scourge proceeds as a multilateral undertaking. We fully support the call for all those responsible for such attacks to be charged with war crimes. Time has demonstrated the cardinal place of multilateral approaches to international issues and problems. The Iraq situation has revealed to us all in the international community the importance of multilateralism under the auspices of the United Nations, whose central role in addressing international conflicts should not be undermined. Let me seize this opportunity to express, on behalf of the Government and the people of Malawi, my gratitude to the United Nations and its agencies, as well as to other multilateral and bilateral donors, for the emergency relief assistance given to Malawi and to other countries of southern Africa during the past two years, when our people faced a critical food shortage that threatened millions of lives. Their timely intervention enabled us to prevent a massive loss of life. We trust that the international community will also assist us in improving our agricultural production so as to prevent the recurrence of famine. Africa continues to experience the effects of the tragedy created by the HIV/AIDS scourge. Our national budgets are seriously overstretched by the demands of care, treatment, support and funerals for HIV/AIDS victims, which occur on an hourly basis in an environment of devastating economic decline and famine. We are losing able-bodied people and professional expertise in all the sectors of our society two and a half times faster than we can replace them. We are grappling with the problem of caring for tens of thousands of orphans, whose numbers are increasing at an alarming rate. The bleak and desperate situation created by HIV/ AIDS urgently calls for concerted and practical international action to implement the Millennium Declaration and Development Goals in the fight against this pandemic. I would like to thank all those partners that continue to assist us in addressing this serious problem. Malawi has paid close attention to the new international debate presently taking shape which advocates a qualitative paradigm shift from policy frameworks and mere commitments in conferences to the concrete implementation of an agreed action programme, or what has become known as the New Multilateralism which aims at addressing the serious shortcomings of existing multilateral policy prescriptions. The debate also seeks to effect a move in the right direction. My Government supports this important innovation and, especially, the newly- launched United Nations system wide integrated framework for least developed countries, jointly worked out by the six core agencies and designed to facilitate the effective integration of the least developed economies into the multilateral trading system. We also support the United Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) mechanism for effecting increased coordination and collaboration at the national level in the preparation of development plans and programmes. We are keen to see a better- coordinated and integrated follow-up to, and implementation of, not only conference outcomes but also outstanding donor commitments to our development efforts. In the same vein, the Government of Malawi fully endorses the current exercise designed to reform the United Nations. A more representative and democratic United Nations will enhance the efficiency and credibility of this world organization. I cannot overemphasize the centrality of market access and trade to the whole question of poverty eradication, sustainable agriculture and rural development. We need to translate the debate on Western protectionism into a deliberate, broad-ranging global policy against trade barriers. Malawi is concerned at the collapse of the recent World Trade Organization meeting in Cancún, Mexico. We can only hope that the stalemate in the talks is only temporary. In the current unbalanced system of trade, low commodity prices on the international market have allowed a virtual free flow of our primary products to the West with a near-zero return on our agricultural sector, making it all the more difficult to develop the sector into a key catalyst for rural and sustainable development as a strategy for effective poverty reduction. The world today is faced with multiple challenges, which have tested the resilience of the strong, as well as that of the weak. In Africa, the noble objectives of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), geared towards enabling. Africans themselves to assume full responsibility for 21 development challenges, can be meaningfully realised only with the support of the developed countries. So far, not much has been achieved owing to resource constraints. The resource pledges made by the Group of Eight at meetings in Canada and France must be honoured in order for the implementation of the NEPAD programmes to pull Africa out of economic stagnation. We were heartened by the launch, early this year, of the road map for a Middle East peace with the expectation that it had established conditions for an irreversible transition to the establishment of an independent Palestinian State co-existing with the State of Israel. It is, therefore, regrettable that the road map is being frustrated by elements that do not wish to see peace take root in the Middle East. We call upon the Middle East Quartet and the Israeli and the Palestinian sides, in particular, to remain committed to the road map and to do everything in their power to make it succeed. I would like to commend the Secretary-General, jointly with the Assembly and the Security Council, for having taken a number of decisive steps towards the resolution of conflicts in Africa, including through the framework of the open-ended ad hoc Committee. of the Security Council on conflict prevention and recovery in Africa. Malawi reaffirms its alignment with the position of Africa and the Southern African Development Community on preventive diplomacy, and commends, in this regard, the General Assembly work on a draft resolution on the prevention of armed conflict in Africa. We also support the Economic and Social Council resolution establishing an Ad Hoc Advisory Group for mobilizing assistance for African countries emerging from conflict. The humanitarian tragedies in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Sierra Leone and Liberia remain a serious distraction from important national and regional development initiatives. In this regard, we welcome the peaceful handover of the reigns of power in Burundi on 30 April, 2003, in accordance with the terms of the peace accord of August 2000. We also commend the successful establishment and launching of a broad-based Government of national unity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 15 July 2003 and the peaceful and successful elections recently held in Rwanda. However, it is important that war crimes committed in conflict areas be thoroughly investigated so that justice may take its course. This would help to check impunity, a phenomenon of most conflict situations. In this connection, my Government welcomes the announcement, on 16 July 2003, by the Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court of plans to investigate war crimes committed in the region of Ituri in the north-eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Malawi believes that the United Nations can meaningfully advance the principles upon which it was founded and effectively deal with the multiple challenges that the global community is facing by taking an all-inclusive approach to its membership. It is in this spirit that my country has, time and again, called for the participation of the Republic of China in the affairs of this Organization in line with the principle of universality. Taiwan has a lot to offer in the promotion of the global common good, which the United Nations is here to advance. I therefore hope that the 23 million people of Taiwan will be given sympathetic consideration so that they may, once again, enjoy the right to associate with the world community through this Organization. Next year will be an important one for the people of Malawi, as we will be holding the third general election of the democratic dispensation ushered in 1994. The elections will be tripartite, as they will include presidential, parliamentary and local government elections. The elections could not have been scheduled to take place at a worse time, given that the country has recently experienced a serious food shortage that has further strained the few resources available to it. However, in response to the demands of the country’s constitution, the Government and the people of Malawi remain committed to fulfilling this constitutional requirement for good governance based on free and fair elections. Malawi seeks the cooperation, support and assistance of the international community to facilitate the entire electoral process. May I conclude by conveying to you, Mr. President, to the Secretary-General and, indeed, to the United Nations family, the profound gratitude and appreciation of His Excellency President Bakili Muluzi and the people of Malawi for the support and cooperation extended to the President and his Government since they assumed power in 1994. As President Muluzi prepares to retire next year, after 22 serving the people of Malawi as President for two consecutive five-year terms, he is confident that the United Nations and, indeed, the international community at large, will remain committed to assisting the new leadership and the people of Malawi in their quest for meaningful and effective socio-economic and political development.  ﻿Please allow me to convey my delegation’s warmest congratulations to Mr. Julian Hunte on his election to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I am sure that his vast experience on the international scene will be brought to bear on the work of this session, and help direct it with ease to a successful conclusion. The fifty-eighth session promises to be rich in substance, and may also prove to be a watershed in our bid to make the United Nations responsive to the needs of the peoples of the world in the new millennium. I wish to assure the President of my delegation’s fullest cooperation in the discharge of his onerous responsibilities. In the same vein, let me also congratulate the out- going President, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his laudable efforts during the fifty-seventh session. The dynamic Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, also deserves commendation for another productive year of service to the Organization, a year that was fraught with difficulties and incredible challenges. Thanks to his leadership, we have, by and large, been able to weather the storm. We were all devastated, however, by the bombing of the offices of the United Nations in Baghdad, which claimed the lives of so many people. May it never recur — please God — but it shows that we must remain united in our resolve to fight terrorism. Let me seize this opportunity to express once again to Mr. Kofi Annan and his staff, as well as to the relatives of the victims, the heartfelt condolences of the people of The Gambia. We pay homage to Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues, who lost their lives, and we mourn the tragic loss of a highly- acclaimed international civil servant at the hands of terrorists. In wishing the injured a speedy recovery, we pray that the souls of all those who died rest in perfect peace. My delegation strongly urges that that cowardly act should in no way weaken the resolve of the United Nations in fulfilling its obligations to the people of Iraq. Resolution 1373 (2001) was adopted unanimously by the Security Council following the attacks of 11 September, and the majority of Member States, including my own, have embarked on implementing its salient provisions. We have ratified the major international instruments on terrorism and, furthermore, have enacted domestic legislation to implement them. Let me state that, in spite of our modest achievements in that regard, international cooperation and technical assistance remain critical to the success of our future implementation efforts. The Counter-Terrorism Committee’s assistance unit must strengthen the coordination of its technical assistance portfolio in order to have greater impact. In that regard, we welcome the commitment of the G-8 to provide capacity-building and technical assistance to priority countries. The translation of declarations of commitment into concrete action is the only guarantee of making meaningful headway to counter terrorism. Apart from the recent terrorist attacks against the United Nations in Baghdad, other such incidents in Indonesia, Kenya, the Russian Federation, Morocco and Saudi Arabia, coming in the wake of the attacks of 11 September, are reminders of the enormity of the tasks ahead. The fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly has been convened at a time when our approaches to the management of global issues have come under sharp scrutiny. Those issues are the unfinished business of the preceding millennium. The United Nations — the premier, overarching venue for multilateralism — cannot but be the only vehicle through which the world’s peace and security problems can be solved. The recent events in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere only serve to underscore the need for the nations of the world to strengthen, not weaken, multilateralism. We shall never achieve global peace, security and prosperity without working together in a forum such as the one provided by the United Nations, a forum that is all-inclusive and which permits each and every nation — big or small, rich or poor — to expound on matters of concern to them. The ideals and principles that were the basis of the founding of the Organization are as relevant today as they were 58 years ago. Let us therefore demonstrate our commitment to multilateralism by always turning to the United 33 Nations. My delegation therefore urges all Member States to maintain confidence in the United Nations and to have recourse to the Organization for the peaceful resolution of conflicts and the settlement of disputes. While terrorism poses a real threat to international peace and security, other violent conflicts continue to rage around the world, leaving death, destruction and desolation in their wake. The situation in the Mano River Union region remains volatile as I speak. Even though former President Charles Taylor of Liberia has left the scene, as was required of him, and there appears to be some laudable progress towards reinvigorating the democratic process in that country, we should be under no illusion as to the extreme fragility of the situation in Liberia, and indeed within the West African subregion. We commend all the parties that recently signed the Peace Agreement in Accra, Ghana, for their determination and patience, and urge them to do all in their power to stay the course. That would also have a salutary effect on the situation in neighbouring Sierra Leone, where we note with satisfaction the consolidation of the peace process. However, the problem of conflicts in West Africa continues to be compounded by the illicit flow of small arms and light weapons, as well as by roving bands of mercenaries. International efforts could serve the region best by developing comprehensive disarmament, demobilization and rehabilitation programmes that target militias and that are region-specific rather than country-specific. We must endeavour to address the issue of the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons with greater determination. An arrangement similar to the Kimberley Process in blood diamonds is what is urgently required to effectively stem the illicit flow of small arms and light weapons. My Government strongly supports any measure that would treat as accomplices to war crimes and crimes against humanity illegal brokers who knowingly supply arms and weapons to militias and other insurgents in West Africa. Conflict zones elsewhere in Africa that tell a similar story should also be assisted in that manner. We warmly congratulate our brothers in Sudan on the recent signing of the Naivasha peace accord, which promises to bring the long-drawn fratricidal conflict in that country to an end. Meanwhile, my Government continues to play its part in the search for solutions to the problems of peace and security in Africa. We participate actively within the context of the initiatives of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to contribute to the subregion’s collective efforts in that area. My Government, under the wise leadership of President Jammeh, has in the past contributed, and will contribute in the future, to subregional efforts to keep the peace in West Africa. We have continuously participated in the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) since its inception. We stand ready to contribute our own modest share to any other United Nations peacekeeping operations designed for the West Africa subregion, as we are doing now under the ECOWAS Military Mission in Liberia (ECOMIL). In that regard, we welcome the adoption of Security Council resolution 1509 (2003), establishing the United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL). I just made mention of the unfinished business of the preceding millennium. Those are thematic issues of political exclusion, disenfranchisement, economic exclusion and abject poverty. All affect the greater majority of humankind. They also give rise to all the urgent situations that the world is faced with today — situations of conflict and civil strife; in short, of the absence of peace. A peculiar situation of exclusion was created by General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI) on 25 October 1971, which relates, through its direct effects, to Taiwan. From 1949 to 1971, the Republic of China (Taiwan) was a bona fide member of the United Nations, recognized by the comity of nations. If the Republic of China (Taiwan) could be a member of the United Nations then, why could it not be a member now? The General Assembly adopted resolution 2758 (XXVI), which addressed only the question of the representation of the People’s Republic of China at the United Nations and related organizations. It did not decide that Taiwan was, or should be, a part of the People’s Republic of China. Nor did it confer on the People’s Republic of China the right to represent the Republic of China (Taiwan) or the 23 million Taiwanese people in the United Nations and related organizations. Resolution 2758 (XXVI) has since been misused to justify the exclusion of Taiwan from the United Nations. That runs counter to the claim by the Government of the People’s Republic of China that it represents the interests of all Chinese, not to mention those Taiwanese who are in the Republic of China (Taiwan). If we are to comprehensively deal with the 34 problems engendered by exclusion in whatever form it takes, I call on the international community to revisit that issue urgently. My Government appreciates the special attention that Guinea-Bissau has received from the Security Council, especially through the Council’s Ad Hoc Working Group on Conflict Prevention and Resolution in Africa. We also commend the remarkable efforts of the Economic and Social Council’s Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Guinea-Bissau. As Chairperson of the Group of Friends of Guinea-Bissau, my Government acknowledges the groundswell of support and good will that Guinea-Bissau enjoys from the Organization. Unfortunately, that has not yet been adequately translated into material and financial forms of assistance, which the people of that country so desperately need. The recent developments in Guinea- Bissau should be seen not so much as a constraint, but rather as an opportunity to re-engage the international community, in partnership with the people of Guinea- Bissau, in the resolution of their problems of governance and development. Now that concerted efforts are being made by all the major actors to agree on transitional arrangements for the preparation of parliamentary and presidential elections in the not-too- distant future, we call on the rest of the international community to provide the support necessary to stabilize the situation and keep the process on course to a successful outcome. Problems of security and peace in my part of the world have not in any way diminished our concerns over similar problems elsewhere. The people of Iraq and Afghanistan need urgent international assistance to shore up security, re-establish the rule of law and embark on an effective programme of reconstruction. My Government welcomes the adoption of resolution 1500 (2003), in the hope that the establishment of the Governing Council of Iraq will lead towards a real political transition for the Iraqi people. While a speedy end to the occupation of Iraq is both desirable and urgent, as clearly underscored in resolution 1472 (2003), outstanding issues emanating from Iraq’s occupation of Kuwait should be comprehensively dealt with once and for all. We continue to follow closely the situation in the Middle East, and we deplore yet again the recent spate of vicious attacks and counter-attacks between Israelis and Palestinians, thus negating hope for an early settlement within the framework of the road map. Trust and confidence-building measures must be reinforced and made to attend to every stage of the implementation of the road map, if the peace process is to endure. Suicide bombings that target innocent civilians must be stopped. The occupation of Arab lands must come to an end. In reiterating our position on the Arab-Israeli conflict, we call for the creation of an independent Palestinian State living in peace alongside the State of Israel. My Government firmly supports the initiatives being taken to reduce tensions between India and Pakistan, two great friends of The Gambia. We urge them both to reduce the arms build-up on their respective sides of the border and to strive harder to reach a mutually acceptable solution to their differences, in particular with regard to the issue of Kashmir. Similarly, we reiterate our support for a peaceful reunification on the Korean peninsula. Human security is not threatened by conflicts alone. The scourge of HIV/AIDS continues to be elusive, and now poses a serious threat to the viability of some societies in Africa. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has slowly evolved from a health and humanitarian issue to a development and security problem. The pandemic has compounded the problems African countries face in the fight against other scourges, such as malaria and tuberculosis. It is gratifying to note however, that the international community is sensitized to that fact and that initiatives such as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria have been put in place. Consequently, more money, resources and attention must be given to research and development. Contributions to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria have slackened, and developing countries are paying a colossal price in human and material terms. The initiative of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization equally requires adequate funding. The pursuit of justice and the international rule of law have never been as pressing as it is today. My Government strongly supports the International Criminal Court as it embarks on its crucial mandate of delivering justice. We hail its progress so far, and I would like to seize this opportunity to call on all to cooperate with the Court in order that, together all around the world, we can say no to the culture of impunity. 35 While still on the subject of justice, let me reiterate my Government’s view that the sanctions being imposed on Cuba should now be lifted. They are counter-productive anyway. Cuba is a peace-loving member of the international community whose people do not deserve the punishment that has been meted out to them for almost four decades now. Let me now turn to development issues. In Africa, our efforts to achieve sustainable development continue to be seriously undermined by a variety of factors, prominent among which are conflicts, structural weaknesses, natural disasters and disease. For the international system to successfully address those factors of underdevelopment, more serious attention must be paid to the implementation of the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010, and more attention must be focused on the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. We must also give effect to the commitments made at Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg. There is no shortage of blueprints for development. What is in short supply, and what needs to be urgently mobilized, are resources. So far, there is still a big gap between commitment and action. Africa’s development partners must make good on their pledges to support Africa’s development. My delegation welcomes the Africa Action Plan of the G-8, the African Growth and Opportunity Act of the United States of America and the “Everything But Arms” initiative of the European Union, all of which commit their sponsors to well-defined forms of support for Africa’s development. There are, however, many barriers to the implementation of those initiatives, which are caused by certain protectionist policies pursued by our partners, as well as other policy and structural constraints. The problem of farm subsidies just will not go away. Agricultural economies in our part of the world must be allowed to compete if the global trading system is to function in favour of the eradication of poverty. The debt issue is far from being resolved and the procedures for accessing the benefits of the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative (HIPC) are too cumbersome for many poor countries to follow. The only realistic approach to the debt problem as a major impediment to development is to cancel it unconditionally for HIPC countries and for low-income countries under stress. We have just ended at Cancún another attempt at negotiations on world trade. My delegation deeply regrets the failure of the talks, as well as the fact that the developed world could not see eye to eye with the Group of 21 on the issue of subsidies. It is in our collective interest to dismantle global trade barriers and allow markets to expand, for incomes to rise in the developing world and poverty to be reduced. Stronger earning power in the developing world would stimulate world trade in ways that would be most beneficial to rich countries. My delegation calls on all concerned to ensure that we return to the negotiating table as soon as possible, and with greater determination on both sides, to reach a just and fair agreement on all the issues involved. Official development assistance (ODA) still falls short of the internationally agreed target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. We commend the countries whose ODA has risen to that level, in particular Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands and Sweden. My delegation urges all of Africa’s development partners to address those issues with sincerity and commitment, with a view to meaningfully assisting in kick-starting the sustainable human development process in African countries. It is gratifying to note that the Human Development Report 2003 is devoted to the Millennium Development Goals. In that way, the fight against poverty is kept high on the international community’s agenda, because we still have a very long way to go. For instance, as stated in the report, “Regionally, at the current pace Sub-Saharan Africa would not reach the Goals for poverty until 2147 and for child mortality until 2165. And for HIV/AIDS and hunger, trends in the region are heading up — not down.” (Human Development Report 2003, p. 2) It is indeed true that sub-Saharan Africa is being left behind. That state of affairs is alarming and, as the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has rightly stated, the Millennium Development Goals will not be realized with a business-as-usual approach. The paradox, in our view, is the fact that, while the means to attain the Goals are available, it would appear that the political will to do so is lacking. Let me again quote from the Human Development Report 2003. 36 “Today’s world has greater resources and know-how than ever before to tackle the challenges of infectious disease, low productivity, lack of clean energy and transport and lack of basic services such as clean water, sanitation, schools and health care. The issue is how best to apply these resources and know-how to benefit the poorest people.” (ibid, p. 3) In The Gambia, my Government’s focus is on the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. The strategy we have designed to that end is detailed in our poverty reduction strategy paper. In a resource- strapped economy such as The Gambia’s, getting all the relevant indicators to perform well towards poverty reduction is a daunting challenge. It is, however, a challenge my Government is prepared to take up. Our special focus is on the empowerment of our people, and we seek to do so by giving priority to our education, health and agricultural sectors, as well as by building capacity among our women, who are the architects of stable and strong nations. That strategy has so far yielded dividends, as evidenced by my country’s showing on UNDP’s Human Development Report 2003. In the education sector our goal is to achieve full enrolment well before the Millennium Declaration’s target year of 2015. As of now, we have taken the gross enrolment rate from 44 per cent, eight years ago, to over 90 per cent today. We have, at the same time, increased non-formal, adult and distance education programmes throughout the country. The net result has been a dramatic drop in illiteracy nationwide. Transition rates from primary to secondary levels have been significantly improved, from 12 per cent, 15 years ago, to over 77 per cent today. Six years ago there were hardly any tertiary level institutions to speak of. Today they abound, and include the new University of The Gambia. That has been made possible by the visionary leadership provided by Al Hadji Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh, President of the Republic of Gambia. Recognizing the important role women play in the family, in the community and in the nation, my Government has sought to pay special attention to the empowerment of our women through education, training and special income-generating projects. In order to increase opportunities for the girl child in the educational system, we have created a trust fund, entitled “The President’s Empowerment of Girls Education Project”, to provide full scholarships to girls who would otherwise not be able to go to school for lack of resources. That and other measures geared towards assisting women have helped to close the gender gap in education in Gambia. Empowering the rural dweller is another priority of my Government. We seek to do so through measures that lead to an increase in access to resources, infrastructure and services, as well as to knowledge and skills. Most villages now have a primary school, and clusters of villages share secondary education facilities. Our efforts have also been geared towards the improvement of the health of our people. Significantly improved child health care, especially through an extensive and comprehensive immunization programme, has contributed immensely towards a considerable reduction in infant mortality in the last few years. Infant mortality rates have been reduced by one third. Primary health care programmes have been strengthened across the board. Overall, access to health facilities and services have equally been greatly improved, with the construction of hospitals, health centres, clinics and dispensaries throughout the country. For all these achievements, however, we are humbled by the challenges that still remain. The prevalence of diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria and a host of respiratory illnesses, is part of an unfinished agenda. Malaria, in particular, remains a major problem. It is the leading cause of mortality and a major cause of morbidity among pregnant women, contributing to anaemia and low birth weight. Today, with the cooperation of a Cuban medical and health team, The Gambia is number one in Africa as far as its malaria control programme is concerned, according to the World Health Organization. In the area of agriculture, our objective is to achieve a total transformation of the sector. Our priority is to reduce the drudgery of production and increase productivity through a systematic programme of mechanization. Added to this is our bid to reduce our dependence on rain-fed methods of production, in favour of greater irrigation, using the abundant water resources that the Gambia River and its tributaries provide. A third plank of our programme of empowerment in the agriculture sector is to diversify activities away from the traditional crops by placing greater emphasis on food production as well as on 37 other non-traditional crops for export. Finally, with all of these objectives already well on the road to success, we are beginning to increase market access, both locally and abroad, for our producers. Attaining the Millennium Development Goals will depend to a large extent on how well poor countries perform in the areas I have just referred to. It would also depend on how far they themselves are empowered, and made capable of performing, through the requisite support measures from the international community. The United Nations system as a whole can be mobilized further to broker such support for poor countries, and especially for those among them that show promise and positive signs of progress. My Government has been increasing its efforts to deepen democracy and strengthening good governance in The Gambia. To that end, our intent is to continuously bring improvements to the performance of all arms of government. Our multiparty democratic system forms the backbone of our political dispensation. We continue to conduct free and fair elections at all levels of popular representation. Our courts operate independently. We have encouraged the mass media to grow and expand, with increasingly higher levels of private participation. The international community must have been satisfied with our efforts and achievements in this domain, since the World Economic Forum, meeting in South Africa, decided to classify The Gambia third in Africa, for its performance on good governance. We are indeed honoured by this recognition, and feel encouraged in our resolve to do even better. Advances in information and communication technology have come to make our world a truly global village. This is indeed remarkable. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that even in this area there is a great deal of catching up to be done by the developing world. Global initiatives geared towards bridging the digital divide between the developed and developing worlds should be pursued with unrelenting vigour. Scientific and technological research must be conducted in support of the essence of life. In the course of this year, we have heard several claims as to the successful cloning of human embryos. These claims, whether genuine or not, are indeed a wake-up call for all of humanity. The international community must close ranks to address them in a manner that ensures that no one is allowed, for whatever reason, to tinker with science and technology in ways that may upset or threaten nature’s fragile balance. The phenomenon of illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing remains a challenge to coastal African States such as The Gambia. It has generated enormous concern at the international level, as is evident from the adoption of various international instruments to combat it. My delegation would like to express its gratitude to the Governments of Japan and Luxembourg and the Food and Agriculture Organization for the assistance that they provide to our fisheries sector, and to fully endorse the Secretary- General’s recommendation that technical and financial assistance to developing countries for the conservation and management of fisheries resources should be provided in a comprehensive manner. We call for greater assistance and cooperation in our efforts to promote sustainable practices in the fisheries sector of our economies. On the crucial topic of United Nations reform, my delegation welcomes the efforts aimed at the revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform of the Security Council. After more than a decade, little progress has been made in our attempts to reform the Security Council so that it is truly reflective of the realities of the international system in the twenty-first century. My Government reiterates its stance — indeed the stance of the entire African region — that the composition of the Security Council has to be revamped and democratized. Membership of the Council must be expanded, with Africa occupying at least two permanent seats and five non-permanent seats. We therefore wholeheartedly support the timely proposal of the Secretary-General to establish a high- level panel of eminent personalities to make concrete recommendations, inter alia, on the reforms of the Organization. As we move into the business of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, my delegation prays that the Almighty Allah crowns our endeavours with success. We pray that this session proves to be the turning point in our efforts to render the United Nations more relevant, more effective and truly all- inclusive. We pray that at this session, any doubts as to the utility of the United Nations to each and every one of us be put to rest once and for all. We pray that by the close of this session, we shall all have emerged secure in our conviction that only through fuller recourse to the United Nations can we expect to have our global 38 problems of conflict, peace and security and, indeed, development, frontally addressed, fully contained and completely resolved.  