The United Nations faces unprecedented challenges: the recent past has brought about a worrisome erosion in the standing and credibility that this great Organization has enjoyed 24 worldwide. Use of military force without prior authorization by the Security Council and increasingly difficult and dangerous conditions under which United Nations personnel operate in many places are but two examples illustrating this trend. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has given a two- tiered response. First, he issued a call for an unequivocal commitment to the principle of multilateralism, upon which this Organization is built. And secondly, he commissioned a report from eminent and highly experienced personalities on how the Organization should address new threats and challenges. Liechtenstein believes that this was the right response. An unequivocal and unwavering commitment from all of us is the basis for collective action and for observing the rules we have set for ourselves. Only this commitment can give meaning to our decisions to tackle new challenges, and only this can enable us to further develop a rules-based framework in order to look confidently into the future. We must acknowledge the fact that the challenges we are facing today were not foreseeable when the founding fathers agreed on the terms which guide the work of this Organization. At the same time, we must always recognize the Charter of the United Nations as the unique achievement that it is and examine our current ways of applying this great tool that was passed down to us. It is therefore our obligation to conduct an in-depth and sober analysis of these new challenges in order to make an informed decision about how best to address them within the framework of the United Nations system. Changes and creative approaches will be needed. We therefore very much look forward to receiving and considering the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change established by the Secretary-General. But however insightful their findings and however visionary their recommendations may be — and we have high hopes that they will be — the necessary decisions to expand the existing multilateral architecture will have to be made by us, the States gathered in this Assembly on the threshold of the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. Not in 10 years. Now. The time is right. In a globalized world, collective action is the necessary response to a great number of challenges. Effective measures in numerous areas — the environment, HIV/AIDS, poverty-reduction, the fight against terrorism, to name but a few — can only be taken on the basis of genuine and efficient global cooperation. Such cooperation can only be successful if it is based on a set of transparent and clear rules applied in the same manner to everybody who participates in it. International law is clearly the primary instrument in this respect. However, we have witnessed contradictory tendencies in the area of international law, especially in the recent past. On the positive side, there have been landmark achievements, most notably the establishment of the International Criminal Court. For the first time in the history of mankind, there is an independent Court, based on a Statute negotiated by the international community at a diplomatic conference, that has the competence to try individuals responsible for the worst crimes when States themselves fail to do so. We are sadly reminded every day how much such an institution is needed. On the negative side, we have observed a dangerous erosion in the application of long-standing international law standards, most notably in the field of international human rights and international humanitarian law. The stage we have reached is critical and there can be only one response: We must urgently reverse this trend and uphold the primacy of the rule of law, both nationally and internationally. We firmly believe that the rule of law is an indispensable element of sound domestic policies — often referred to as good governance — and an indispensable part of sustainable development worldwide. International organizations, including the United Nations, are called upon to continue their efforts to assist States in establishing and applying the rule of law. We strongly support the efforts made over the past year to strengthen the role of the United Nations in that respect. The rule of law at the domestic level must be complemented at the international level through full and unconditional respect for internationally recognized standards and transparent and fair rules in international decision-making. We have been very slow in dealing with the changes in the world and its consequences, most notably with regard to non-State actors who fall outside the framework of international law as we have known it in the past. We must ensure that all those individuals and groups that play a significant role in the international arena are not 25 allowed to move in a legal vacuum and we must clarify which rules apply to them. That, however, we can do credibly and thus effectively only if we, the Governments representing States, continue to respect the standards we have created for ourselves. The one body that is particularly called upon in that respect is the Security Council — to many, the epitome of the United Nations as a whole. The Council must meticulously observe the mandate given to it under the Charter and ensure transparency and clarity in its decision-making. That is of special importance where the Council’s decisions directly affect the rights and obligations of individuals who are not entitled to individual legal remedies — a situation which can be difficult to reconcile with the rule of law. A strong momentum is gathering for reform of the Security Council after more than 10 years of deliberations on that very complex topic. In light of the challenges before the Council and the open questions concerning its role, in particular with regard to increasing legislative activities, successful reform must address all aspects. Enlargement to make that body more modern and representative is one such aspect. We believe that it is not sound for a universal Organization to have its major decisions in a truly vital area taken by only a handful of States. Furthermore, the working methods of the Council, its accountability to the membership as a whole and its mandate must also be addressed. Liechtenstein, and its delegation in New York in particular, will continue to stand ready to make their contribution to that end. In accordance with the Charter, the Council acts on behalf of the entire membership in carrying out its duties, and its decisions are binding on all Member States. All States should therefore take a strong interest in its work and make use of their opportunities to interact with and express their views to the Council, whether they are members or not. More openness and inclusiveness in the Security Council are still both desirable and feasible. The question remains, however: Is the Security Council too powerful or do we simply lack the necessary system of checks and balances? We support a dynamic and strong Security Council and therefore tend to the latter view, with a clear focus on an enhanced role for the General Assembly, the only universal organ of the United Nations. The measures on revitalization upon which we were able to agree during the last session show us how far we still have to go. It must be our goal to make this Assembly an efficient and effective body that can act and react quickly and with resolve. We are still very far away from that goal. The momentum gathered over the past year must be translated into further, bold measures and trigger a process that is not reversible. This is no time for complacency and no time for indifference. This Assembly has historical tasks before it. We must leave lethargy and short-term national interests behind in the interest of the greater good. Secretary-General Kofi Annan put it very aptly in his speech this past Tuesday: If we cannot reach agreement on the way forward, history will make the decisions for us. We must set a vision for the future and live up to our responsibility. We owe this to all future generations and to ourselves.I would like, on behalf of Bulgaria, to offer my sincere congratulations to Mr. Jean Ping on his assumption of the presidency ó a position of great responsibility. Given his great experience in multilateral diplomacy, I sure that he will lead the deliberations of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly to a successful outcome. I would 47 also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work done by his predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, to reform and revitalize the Assembly. (spoke in English) This is the first year that the Republic of Bulgaria has taken part in the deliberations of the General Assembly as a full-fledged member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and as a State which has successfully concluded its negotiations on joining the European Union. We are fully aware of the great responsibility which we bear this year in discharging our mandate as the Chairman-in-Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. All those factors encourage Bulgaria to redouble its efforts in support of the United Nations. We shall continue our efforts aimed at strengthening the authority and role of the United Nations. We shall support the constructive proposals for reforms within the United Nations, which should enhance its capacity and effectiveness. Today the United Nations faces new challenges, which require resolute joint action and coordination. The United Nations and its bodies, as well as the specialized institutions within its system, will continue to make an important contribution aimed at dealing with extreme poverty and hunger, achieving sustainable development, containing and eliminating violence and human rights abuses and affirming the rule of law, good governance and democratic values. International terrorism poses the most serious threat to international peace and security. This requires coordinated and resolute action by all States and the entire international community. Nothing can justify terrorist acts. It is essential that terrorists do not get hold of weapons of mass destruction nor distract us from our agenda, as outlined by the Millennium Declaration. This month the world remembers the victims of the terrorist acts of 11 September, marking the anniversary of those tragic events. We all watched in horror, anguish and anger the cold-blooded massacre of innocent children and their parents in the school in Beslan. That is terrorism at its ugliest. Bulgaria, too, is firmly convinced that international terrorism threatens all States and that it can be dealt with only through joint efforts. It is for that reason that the people and the Government of Bulgaria have whole-heartedly supported our countryís active participation in the global coalition against terrorism. We are committed to pursuing that policy steadfastly, even though we have suffered human losses and sustained damage. Within the United Nations system, the Security Council and its Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) are vested with the task of ensuring success in the fight against international terrorism. We share the view that Security Council resolution 1535 (2004) and the creation of the new Counter-Terrorism Committee Executive Directorate have improved coordination in this field. The Al Qaeda and Taliban Committee, beefed up in 2004 with the Monitoring Group and Sanctions Enforcement Support Team, should also continue to wield its positive influence. Within the framework of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Bulgaria has been assisting in the joint initiatives of the CTC and OSCE and of the United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention. The OSCE has been involved in several countries in south-east Europe for many years now, and its commitment to fostering peace and stability in the region, through its field missions in Macedonia; Croatia; Bosnia and Herzegovina; Albania; Serbia and Montenegro; and Kosovo, Serbia and Montenegro, has proved invaluable. Through activities such as institution- and capacity-building, promoting and supporting legislative reform, respect for human rights, and - in cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and other international actors - the repatriation of refugees and internally displaced persons, the OSCE has made clear its comparative advantage in the region. But, while this work is essential, it cannot be done effectively without enhanced efforts by the international community to address the regionís lagging infrastructure. The development of infrastructure and political stability must go hand in hand. The people of the region are isolated from each other and from the rest of the region. Indeed, it can take longer to fly from Sofia to Tirana than to cross the Atlantic. There is a desperate need for highways, railways and infrastructure corridors to bring the people of the region closer together. Bulgaria knows from experience the importance for the people of south-eastern Europe of having the prospect of full integration into mainstream European political and economic structures. 48 Sustained efforts must be made by the international community to stimulate economic growth in that region and to offer young people in particular tangible hope for the future. Bulgaria has always regarded the stability and security of south-east Europe as one of its priorities. Yet, in spite of the positive changes and the acceleration of the European and Euro-Atlantic integration of the States in the region, the events that took place in Kosovo last March revealed that serious risks and latent threats still exist. Bulgaria supports the emergence of a democratic, multi-ethnic, multi-cultural and multi-religious society in Kosovo. We will continue to cooperate actively with the United Nations Mission in Kosovo so that this aim can finally be attained. Bulgaria is in favour of the full implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) and its ìstandards before statusî policy. An agreement on those standards, together with the forthcoming negotiating process, will be decisive for Kosovoís future. We welcome the Secretary-Generalís initiatives, and in particular the comprehensive review of the political situation in Kosovo prepared by Ambassador Kai Eide. We will continue to lend our active support to Mr. Soren Jessen-Petersen, the Secretary-Generalís newly appointed Special Representative. We hope that the elections next month will prove to be an important step forward in the context of the social and political processes under way and towards reaching a durable solution to the Kosovo problem. Bulgaria is firmly convinced that the United Nations must play a key role in the stabilization and restoration of Iraq, in the ongoing political and constitutional process, based on Security Council resolution 1546 (2004), and in the preparations for democratic and free elections. We welcome the first steps taken in Baghdad by Mr. Ashraf Qazi, the Secretary-General's Special Representative, as well as the mandate of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI). There have been encouraging developments in the resolution of conflicts in certain hot spots in the world, such as Sierra Leone and Timor-Leste. At the same time, there are complicated situations in other regions, particularly in Africa. The situation in Darfur is of serious concern. Security Council resolution 1556 (2004) and the recently adopted resolution 1564 (2004) must be complied with in order to avoid a repetition of the tragedy in other parts of the African continent, similar to the events that occurred during the last decade. During Bulgariaís chairmanship of the OSCE, we have been making concerted efforts to spur and further develop cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE. We have been encouraged by the Secretary- Generalís specific initiatives, aimed at improving the synchronization of actions, communication and exchange of information with regional organizations. We give very high marks to United Nations-OSCE cooperation in the western Balkans, the region of the Caucasus and in Central Asia. Contemporary geopolitical realities require not only cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE, but also cooperation with the European Union, NATO, the Council of Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent States and relevant international agencies. In my view, closer interaction between them is of crucial importance to security, stability, democratic prosperity and tolerance throughout the world. The developments in Georgia have been followed with close attention by the Bulgarian OSCE chairmanship. We have also been actively involved in efforts to avert possible crisis situations in the autonomous region of Ajaria. We note with satisfaction the encouraging changes that have taken place in Azerbaijan and Tajikistan, including the decision of the President of Azerbaijan, announced in March, to release 129 prisoners, as well as the June decision by the President and the Parliament of Tajikistan to impose a moratorium on the death penalty. The OSCE, through its outreach activities, attaches great importance to assisting the normalization of Afghanistan and its steady progress towards democracy and respect for human rights. We express our satisfaction at the fact that the OSCE will contribute to the monitoring of elections in Afghanistan. In adapting ourselves to current geopolitical realities, we envisage building a bridge of confidence over the Black Sea - an endeavour which can lay the groundwork for future security, cooperation and tolerance in Europe, in Asia and the rest of the world. We are deeply convinced that the Black Sea dialogue is of special importance not only for participating nations but also because it can set a positive example for other parts of the world. 49 Respect for and observance of internationally recognized standards of human rights by Member States is a prerequisite both for their national security and for sustainable development. It is also a prerequisite for international peace and security. The protection of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms worldwide is a priority in the policy of the Bulgarian Government. Our historical experience teaches us that, in the quest to achieve prosperity and security in any society, it is necessary to have not only an adequate legal system and mechanisms for its effective implementation, but also a spirit of tolerance. We must not tolerate only one minority and ignore the others. Anti-Semitism, anti-Islamism, anti-Arabism, anti-Europeanism, anti-Americanism and even anti- globalism ought to be equally and totally rejected. Bulgaria welcomes the progressive reintegration of Libya into the international community. However, my country believes that a compelling message from the Libyan authorities about their respect for human rights and human values could only be communicated through a just solution to the well-known case of the medical workers - six Bulgarians and one Palestinian - who have been held behind bars in Tripoli and Benghazi for almost six years. In this regard, we call upon the United Nations to redouble its efforts in the fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic in Africa, which we believe is the cause of these tragic developments concerning these seven innocent people. Bulgaria regards issues concerning women, children and persons belonging to vulnerable groups of the population, including elderly and disabled persons, as inseparable parts of the entire complex of human rights. The Bulgarian Government fully supports the strict implementation of the documents of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, the twenty- seventh special session of the General Assembly on children, the World Assembly on Ageing, as well as the ongoing efforts of the international community to draft and adopt a convention on the protection of the rights and dignity of disabled persons. The measures aimed at revitalizing all the activities of the United Nations are of extraordinary importance for the current session of the General Assembly. The effectiveness of the work of United Nations bodies, particularly the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, is fundamental for solidifying the all-around role of this world Organization. The sooner we do it, the better, and all the more so since next year we will be celebrating the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. Let us hope that we will at that time be able to congratulate ourselves on the adoption of these badly needed reforms. Taking all this into consideration and acting on the basis of the political will of all Member States, as declared at the Millennium Summit, we give our support to the common efforts for speeding up United Nations reform and for strengthening the ties and coordination among the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization. The United Nations plays a principal and pivotal role in the Republic of Bulgariaís foreign policy, as stated at the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly by our Prime Minister, Mr. Simeon Saxe- Coburg-Gotha. To this end, we shall continue our efforts to promote the role of the United Nations and enhance its efficiency and organizational structure in order to promote peace, development, democracy and the rule of law.I am deeply honoured to have this opportunity to address the General Assembly on behalf of the people of Zambia. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Ping on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. As one of the 21 Vice-Presidents for the current session, Zambia pledges him its support and cooperation. I would also like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte of Saint Lucia, for the efficient manner with which he presided over the proceedings of the fifty-eighth session. I wish to extend our sincere appreciation to Secretary-General Annan for his relentless dedication to the cause of international peace, security and economic development. This session of the General Assembly convenes at a time when vexing problems plague the world community. Zambia believes that the key to addressing a host of such difficult global issues as terrorism, HIV/AIDS and the humanitarian tragedy in Darfur is to find multilateral solutions, often within the context of an effective United Nations. Indeed, that is what I would call a multilateral imperative. With that in mind, Zambia welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization. It is also Zambiaís hope that this session will build on past achievements to advance the global agenda. Accordingly, Zambia supports the convening of the high-level plenary meeting next year in New York on the Millennium Development Goals, to which 20 we committed ourselves in 2000. We firmly believe that all Member States have a collective responsibility to implement the commitments set forth in the Declaration. My delegation supports the ongoing reforms of the United Nations. Zambia shares the concerns of other countries that this important process has not yet been completed. Zambia believes that the reforms should address the concerns of developing countries. In that regard, we look forward to the progress reports on the reforms. Zambia appreciates the recent initiatives of the President of the General Assembly at its fifty- eighth session on the revitalization, reform and enhancement of the working methods of the General Assembly. My delegation stands ready to continue actively participating in the reform process during this session. We commend the President and his predecessor for the revitalization of the General Assembly as the highest deliberative and decision- making organ of the United Nations. Regarding the reform of the Security Council, Zambia remains concerned about the lack of progress. I therefore appeal to this Assembly to support the efforts of the Security Council to enhance its decision-making and liaison methods during this session. As I stated at the outset, Zambia believes in multilateralism, which continues to be an indispensable instrument for achieving global consensus on important, life-saving issues. As a global community, we face challenges that are transnational and interconnected in nature. It is essential that we take advantage of the immense problem-solving potential of multilateralism. Unilateralism should have no place in this global era. Zambia reaffirms its support for the United Nations initiatives in the fight against global terrorism and the proliferation of small arms and any form of weapon of mass destruction. We call upon the international community to take all necessary steps within the purview of the United Nations to combat the scourge of terrorism in all its manifestations. That scourge needs to be fought relentlessly, with total commitment and vigour. Zambia also pledges to continue supporting the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council. My delegation would like the United Nations and the world community at large to assist Member States in building their capacity to fight international terrorism. And we want to express our heartfelt sympathy for the innocent victims of terrorism in Russia, here in New York and elsewhere. Zambia expresses its profound dismay at the continued unrest in the Middle East and the impasse in the Palestinian-Israeli peace process. We call on the parties to that longstanding conflict to allow for full implementation of the Quartetís road map. Zambia reiterates that the road map offers a viable solution to the Middle East question. We endorse and support the initiatives for a peaceful settlement of the Middle East crisis. In the same vein, Zambia welcomes the adoption of Security Council Resolution 1546 (2004) on Iraq. We fully realize that economic, social and political development is the primary responsibility of each individual country. We are pleased that the Group of Eight countries continue to support the New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD), the primary objective of which is eradicating the increasing poverty on our continent and putting African countries on the path of sustainable economic growth. We recognize that the new initiative is by Africans and for Africans, but we cannot ignore the vital importance of assistance from the international community through increased official development assistance. External debt has continued to consume a large proportion of the national incomes of developing countries, especially the least developed countries (LDCs). The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative was established to assist highly indebted poor countries to reduce external debt to sustainable levels. Admittedly, the HIPC Initiative does help reduce the effects of indebtedness. However, it has some inherent problems which inhibit the full realization of its benefits. The international community must, therefore, continue exploring innovative approaches toward debt elimination. In that connection, we applaud the efforts of President Lula of Brazil in his search for the appropriate financing paradigm for the eradication of poverty and hunger. As we endeavour to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, we are very concerned with the plight of the LDCs, which constitute 70 per cent of the worldís population. These countries are likely to miss the target we set of reducing by half the number of people living in extreme poverty and hunger by 2015. 21 Let me briefly change direction and say a few words about certain positive developments in my country, a place where freedom truly is on the march. As you know the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010 was adopted in Brussels in 2001. Since then, Zambia has committed herself to serious economic reform, including privatization, trade liberalization, the adoption of poverty reduction strategies and the creation of an environment conducive to both local and foreign investment. While we are doing our part, we expect corresponding action from the international community, as agreed upon in the Programme of Action. Without assistance, all of our efforts will be rendered futile. Our aim is to graduate one day soon from an LDC to a developing country. In addition, I am proud to say that my administration is based on the rule of law. For example, we have embarked on an ambitious review of our constitution in order to provide ourselves with a document that will stand the test of time. We call on our cooperating partners and well-wishers to support us in this important endeavour. This year and next - 2004 and 2005 - are important years in the lives of our people. I call your attention to four important events that are taking place in our country during this period. First, on 24 October 2004, we shall celebrate the fortieth anniversary of our national independence. Then, in February 2005, Zambia will be hosting the Third African Conference on Peace Through Tourism, the high point of which will be a ceremony honouring the hundredth anniversary of the birth of former United Nations Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjild, who died tragically in a plane crash in Ndola, Zambia. Also next year, my country will celebrate the hundredth anniversary of the founding of the town of Livingstone, the tourist capital of Zambia and home of Victoria Falls, also popularly known as the adventure centre of Africa. In addition, next year we will commemorate the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of Dr. David Livingstoneís first glimpse of Victoria Falls, the worldís largest curtain of falling water, which we call Mosi-O-Tunya, or the smoke that thunders. It is my honour to invite your Excellencies, and through you all, all your citizens to come to Zambia and participate in these events. Zambia also welcomes peace initiatives at regional, continental and global levels aimed at ending conflicts and wars in various parts of the world. It is for this reason that Zambia has continued its active participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions. With peace prevailing in Angola, that country is now faced with the challenge of post-conflict reconstruction. Zambia calls on the international community to double its assistance to Angola to help tackle the humanitarian situations such as the removal of landmines and the settlement and reintegration of former combatants and refugees. I am pleased to report that on 15 June 2004, Zambia and Angola witnessed the repatriation of some 363 Angolan refugees in north-western Zambia, under the auspices of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugeesí voluntary repatriation programme. This was a good start to the programme, but more international support is needed. In conclusion, I want to reiterate the imperative of finding multilateral solutions to the problems that confront us. In our interdependent world, all of the problems and challenges that we face can only be addressed through the concerted multilateral efforts of the international community.I congratulate you, Sir, on your presidency and know well that we are in excellent hands. I should also like to pay tribute to Mr. Julian Hunte for his excellent stewardship of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We are enthusiastic at the forthcoming 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action. We see it as an extension and implementation of the 4 commitments agreed to in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and, in particular, in its chapter VII. Whilst the developmental path to Mauritius in January 2005 has been fraught with its own challenges, it is critical to small island developing States that the impetus for that important global review not be lost in its own rhetoric. It is paramount that the outcomes from Mauritius be refined and focused on translating the oft-quoted special case of small island developing States into firm and timely support and global implementation. As such, participation by all member States in the forthcoming preparatory process and in the International Meeting in Mauritius is essential to realizing our development aspirations. The geographical makeup of small island States puts some of our islands at a disadvantage. That is because economic development has focused on larger islands with large populations, which thereby enjoy a higher per capita income than do other islands of the country. That is true of Tonga, where the main focus of development has been devoted to the larger islands of the three main island groups, but within each of those three groups other islands need further economic development. Three remote islands to the north, known as the Niuas, are disadvantaged by the tyranny of distance and are in fact in closer proximity to Samoa than they are to our own capital. The outlying islands of the Vava’u and Ha’apai groups are less developed than their main islands, while `Eua to the south-east of Tongatapu has potential but needs targeted inputs. Though we have designated core donors to those islands, their further development will need additional or new resources. So I hope that, in the review of the Barbados Programme of Action, some thought is given to the lot of those living on these disadvantaged islands. As a developing ocean State, we are vigilant about progress in ocean affairs and law of the sea issues. We consider the valuable contribution made by the meeting of States parties to the Convention on the Law of the Sea and its subsidiary bodies — in particular, the achievements of the International Seabed Authority, to whose mandate a research function should be added, and the work of the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf — worthy of mention. Together with the important role of the United Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative Process, this sets a firm and practical platform for our work during this session. I am happy to note that the third informal meeting of States parties to the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement has seen firm commitments by certain States Parties to enable the implementation and concrete operation of elements of part VII of the Agreement with special emphasis on and relevance to small island developing States. We continue to encourage other member States to become parties to the Agreement. We are particularly pleased that the Convention for the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean entered into force earlier this year. We consider that special milestone worthy of note in the Assembly’s work. Wanton acts of terrorism continue to test our fortitude as members of the international community. We must remain collectively resolute in our resolve to prevent and vigorously combat the proponents of that evil, and we must be innovative and versatile in our pursuit of meaningful countermeasures and lasting solutions. We continue to strongly support the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee and applaud the recent revitalization of it and its work. Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) remains the basis of domestic measures implemented by my Government, including the submission of country and, where appropriate, regional reports. It is useful to identify areas where financial and technical assistance is necessary to enable stronger compliance by all States in meeting their international obligations. After eight years of negotiations, Tonga’s accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) is in the final stages. Bilateral market access agreements on goods and services have been concluded with Australia, Canada, the European Union, Japan, New Zealand and Panama. Agreement with the United States is outstanding, as it has requested that we accede to the Chemical Harmonization Agreement and the Information Technology Agreement. Although this is an additional burden on us, we do understand that the United States is requesting the same commitments from every acceding country. The working group report has been discussed at informal working parties and so gives rise to cautious optimism that we could conclude the process before the 2005 ministerial meeting. 5 Tonga needs the understanding and the support of all WTO members as we seek commitments commensurate with the size of our economy and the stage of our development. To be sure, Tonga is not seeking greater market access, but desires security for its trade under a rule-based, multilateral trading system. Tonga adheres strictly to the “one China” policy and recognizes that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China. We welcome the shared principle of non- interference in each other’s internal affairs and, as such, we consider that delicate and sensitive issues are best dealt with in an across-the-Strait dialogue rather than at international forums. We welcome the expanding cooperation with China and recognize that its huge market provides a range of commercial, financial and trade possibilities for us and, to that end, Tonga has adopted a “look east” policy. To give effect to its interests in China, Tonga will soon establish a diplomatic presence in Beijing to explore those interests further. For a decade now, we have exported our squash produce to Japan and, more recently, we have been exporting specially cultivated seaweed to its markets. It is timely that we now explore further forms of cooperation with Japan in the field of fisheries, trade in other produce, financial and investment possibilities, as well as education and training. To pursue those interests, we are giving thought to a possible presence in Tokyo, although such an undertaking will be determined by available financial resources. The policy does not supplant the long-existing warm ties of friendship we enjoy with Australia, New Zealand, France and the United States in the Pacific region, as those friendly ties and a broad range of cooperation are firmly rooted in our policy. My Government has approved the fourth deployment later in the year of police officers to the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI). Also, approval has been given for the deployment of the third contingent of defence personnel for 2005, in concert with the agreed rotation formula under RAMSI. We all look forward to the report of the High- Level Panel. Judging from the makeup of the Panel and its formidable credentials, I should think the report and recommendations will set the tone for the constructive engagement of the General Assembly. The membership of the Security Council ought to be expanded in both the permanent and non-permanent categories in accordance with the realities of the day and perceptions of tomorrow. We believe that Japan should be a permanent member and that there should be a permanent seat for Africa and another for Latin America. Five years ago, Tonga was admitted to membership of the United Nations and has since actively participated in United Nations activities. It is now giving favourable consideration to contributing to the United Nations peacekeeping efforts. Consequently, arrangements for our participation will be discussed further with the United Nations. The scope of our deployment will be fashioned by our available manpower and financial capacity. Although violence renders an enduring peace elusive, we continue to harbour hopes that a lasting peace can soon be concluded so that a Palestinian State can be established, living side by side with the State of Israel in internationally recognized borders and in peace and security. Our development has been made possible through domestic resources and also through bilateral and multilateral programmes of assistance, all of which have been highly appreciated. Our major donor partners have been Australia, China, the European Union — with some members providing additional assistance — Japan and New Zealand. The United States provides assistance through its fisheries treaty with the Pacific region and through other avenues. In recent times, India, Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia have provided technical assistance. The United Nations Development Programme, the Global Environment Facility, the United Nations Environment Programme, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Global Fund, the World Bank and other financial institutions have provided various forms of assistance and technical expertise. Much of the technical assistance is channelled to combating diabetes and tuberculosis and preventing the spread of the HIV/AIDS. Other assistance has been directed at meeting our Millennium Development Goals and to small community programmes and projects.This is the first occasion on which I have addressed the General Assembly on behalf of my country; I am very pleased to do so. My country is an old country - a diverse country, with several languages and various traditions and cultures. Our country is European, Mediterranean and Ibero-American in character. I am speaking on behalf of a country that has had its share of difficult experiences throughout history. It is a country in which some people who are alive today have known a civil war, a dictatorship that lasted for almost four decades and a democracy that is now 25 years old and that has brought great progress. We have also known the scourge of terrorism for more than 30 years ó terrorism that has taken so many lives. Over the past 30 years, Spanish men and women have learned a great deal about terrorism. We learned early on how evil it is. We became familiar with it. We learned how to defy it and how to withstand its blows with courage and dignity. We have learned how to fight it. Precisely because they have experienced it for 30 years that the citizens of my country felt deeply the pain of the American people on 11 September 2001. We knew how they felt; we know how they feel. Here in New York, I would like to convey the heartfelt solidarity of the people of Spain with the great nation of the United States. We fully understand the terrible pain that in recent years has been inflicted upon Jakarta, Bali, Casablanca, Riyadh and Beslanq. We know all about kidnappings, bombings and cold-blooded killings. We know what compassion means. On 11 March this year, a terrorist attack in Madrid took the lives of 192 people. We had never experienced that kind of terrorism before, but we were familiar with the bloodshed and the pain that it caused. I would like, from this rostrum, to express my deep appreciation to all nations for their solidarity with our country when we were suffering so deeply after the brutal attack in Madrid. Spanish men and women were not afraid. On the day after the bombings, millions of people left their homes and took to the streets and squares of our cities and towns. Once again, we expressed our condemnation, disgust and total contempt for terrorist brutality. Thirty years of resisting terrorism has taught us that the risk of a terrorist victory rises sharply when, in order to fight terror, democracy betrays its fundamental nature, when Governments curtail civil liberties, put judicial guaranties at risk or carry out pre-emptive military operations. This is what my people have learned: it is the rule of law, democracy and political methods that make us stronger and make them weaker. We will resist terrorism. Our history endorses our resolve. We will pursue our fight against terrorism, but we will do so respecting domestic and international law; we will do so with respect for human rights and for the United Nations ó and in no other way. It is not only the ethics of our beliefs that move us. It is above all our belief in ethics. Our conviction is that legality - only legality ó will enable us to prevail in the fight against terrorism. Nothing justifies terrorism. Like the plague, it has no justification. But like the plague, it has roots that can and must be uncovered. We can and must rationally analyse how it emerges and how it grows, so that we can fight it rationally. Terrorism is insanity and death, and regrettably there will always be fanatics who are ready to kill to impose their insanity through force, ready to scatter the seed of evil. The seed of evil cannot take root when it falls on the rock of justice, well-being, freedom and hope, but it can take root if it lands on the soil of injustice, poverty, humiliation and despair. Redressing the major political and economic injustices that devastate our world would therefore deprive terrorists of their popular support. The more people there are who have decent living conditions around the world, the safer we will all be. 35 In this context, I would like to speak about Iraq. But first of all I would like to speak about the thousands of victims of this conflict: the Iraqis, the soldiers, the civilians who have lost their lives. We extend to them and to their countries our steady solidarity. The overwhelming majority of people in Spain spoke out against the war. We were not persuaded by the arguments offered by those who promoted the war. We expressed our views in the Spanish Parliament and in the streets. We spoke out loudly, we shouted. We also said that winning the war would be much easier than winning the peace. Peace must be our task - a task that requires more courage, more determination and more heroism than the war. That is why the Spanish troops returned from Iraq. In any event, what really matters now is to help fully restore the sovereignty and independence of Iraq - a democratic Iraq at peace with its neighbours. We will spare no effort in that task. And so Spain actively participated in the drafting of Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) and will continue to offer political and financial support for the process of political normalization and strengthening Iraqi democratic institutions. There will be neither security nor stability in the world as long as the Middle East conflict continues to bleed. That conflict is the primary tumour for many sources of instability. Spain firmly supports resolutions adopted by the United Nations, and other instruments such as the Quartet's road map, which is yet to be implemented. The time we are wasting is to be measured in terms of human lives. Spain stands by Israel against the terrible scourge of terrorism, against which it is entitled to defend itself by legitimate means. Spain firmly defends the establishment of a viable, democratic Palestinian State that can live in peace and security with the State of Israel. Israel will be able to count on the international community to the extent that it respects international law, but the placement of the dividing wall fails to do that. Spain will spare no political, diplomatic or cooperation effort to try and bring about the peace that is so needed in the Middle East. But from this rostrum, we would also like to extend an urgent appeal to the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations to implement the road map. Those are four powerful players indeed, and we want to see them exerting decisive diplomatic pressure. In the humanitarian field, Spain has contributed several million euros to help alleviate the terrible crisis in Darfur. However, the Sudanese authorities must, without delay, take all measures necessary to end the atrocities, bring the perpetrators to justice and normalize the situation in the region. It is also necessary for the rebel groups and militias to respect the ceasefire and show a constructive attitude at the negotiating table. In this context, we must support the initiatives of the African Union. Spain believes we can no longer passively accept the continuation of Africa's forgotten conflicts, and that is why, with partners in the European Union, we supported the establishment of the African Peace Facility, an instrument designed to promote regional solutions to crises in Africa. In the Maghreb, Spain is pursuing an active and comprehensive policy to enhance political stability and economic and social development in the region. Regional integration and interdependence with Spain and Europe is, we believe, the way to reach those goals. With regard to Western Sahara, Spain strongly supports the search for a just and definitive political solution that is accepted by all parties and respects the principles set forth in the resolutions of the United Nations. From this rostrum I appeal to all the parties involved to redouble their efforts, within the framework of dialogue and negotiations established by the United Nations, to resolve a conflict that has dragged on for far too long. May I confirm Spain's commitment to peacekeeping operations - a fundamental part of effective multilateralism that we are seeking to encourage. Our political commitment is reflected in specific contributions in the form of military contingents for Afghanistan and Haiti, in accordance with explicit Security Council mandates. Peace and security will spread through the world only with the strength of the United Nations, the strength of international legality, the strength of human rights, of democracy, of men abiding by the law, with equality of men and women, with equality of 36 opportunities, no matter where people are born. We reject those who would manipulate us or wish to impose any kind of religion or belief. The strength of education and culture is essential, for culture is always peace. Let us ensure that our perception of others is coloured by respect. There must be dialogue among peoples. Thus, as a representative of a country created and enriched by divers cultures, in this Assembly I want to propose an alliance of civilizations between the Western and the Arab and Muslim worlds. Some years ago a wall fell. We must now prevent hatred and a lack of understanding from building another wall. Spain proposes to the Secretary-General - whose work at the head of this organization we firmly support ó the possibility of establishing a high-level group to move ahead with this initiative. This is the house of nations, but I see only women and men. I hear only the voices of women and men who represent billions of other women and men. Many of these voices - many feeble and barely audible, the voices of children, the weak, the hopeless - come from lands devastated by poverty and inequality. It is they whom I now want to address to declare that Spain strongly supports the Millennium Declaration Goals with respect to development, poverty eradication and the preservation of the environment. Poverty is the main cause of uncontrolled migration flows. But no wall, no matter how tall, can prevent those who suffer from trying to escape poverty in order to recover their dignity as human beings. For those reasons, we are firmly committed to the political declaration we adopted yesterday within the framework of the International Alliance Against Hunger - promoted by President Lula da Silva - which establishes new ways to fund development. The Government of Spain will substantially increase its official development assistance in order to reach the threshold of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. In order for there to be peace, security and hope all over the world, international instruments for the promotion and protection of human rights need to be strengthened and effectively implemented. That is one of the basic pillars of our foreign policy. Our objectives are the signing and ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture, the universal abolition of the death penalty, the effort to end discrimination against women, gender-based violence and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, the protection of children and the combating of child abuse and exploitation, and the strict observance of human rights in the fight against terrorism and crime. World peace and security require respect for legality. Therefore, Spain wishes to promote the effective functioning of the International Criminal Court. To that end, I call upon all States that have yet done so to ratify the Statute of the Court fully, unconditionally and without delay and thus help us in our common endeavour to build a world that is more just. My Government wholeheartedly supports the United Nations reform process set out in the Millennium Declaration and endorses the Secretary- Generalís initiatives for the reform and institutional strengthening of the Organization. Spain believes that it is essential for the future of the international order that the reform be aimed at ensuring effective compliance with United Nations resolutions, in particular those of the Security Council. The Security Council must be made more representative, democratic, effective and transparent. To that end, Spain is willing to consider new proposals for achieving consensus on increasing the number of non-permanent members and on the use of the veto power. I want to reaffirm Spain's commitment to the just causes of the Latin American peoples and to consolidating democratic systems and political stability in the region. I reaffirm our support for economic progress aimed at reducing inequality and strengthening social cohesion. Within the European Union, we will continue to promote a closer relationship with that region through the development of a strategic partnership between both sides of the Atlantic. I would not wish to conclude my statement without referring to the question of Gibraltar. Every year, the General Assembly reiterates its calls to Spain and the United Kingdom to pursue bilateral negotiations in order to reach a definitive solution to the dispute. I affirm that my country will continue its willingness to negotiate a solution that benefits the 37 region as a whole and heeds the wishes of that non- autonomous territory. The United Nations was born of necessity and ideals. It was built by women and men who affirmed their faith in understanding among peoples and cultures. They left us a legacy of utopia. They thought that everything was within their reach: the settlement of old conflicts, the eradication of poverty, rights for all human beings. Today we could ask ourselves, what is within our reach? Almost everything is. It is true that the history of humankind does not give us many reasons to be optimistic. Nor does the world today offer us many reasons to feel superior to the men that preceded us. One out of three countries in the world does not have a free system. Torture continues to exist. There are more than 30 armed conflicts around the world today. Half of the war victims are children. Millions of people are suffering from AIDS. One billion human beings subsist on a dollar a day. More than 800 million adults are illiterate. More than 150 million children are without access to any kind of education. More than 1 billion people lack safe drinking water. No, we human beings cannot feel very proud of ourselves. We must fight to overcome this situation. We, the Spanish women and men of today, are resolved to make it possible for the women and men who come after us to be able to say: yes, they did do it.I am pleased to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. May I also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte of Saint Lucia, for having ably presided over our deliberations during the previous session of the General Assembly. Even as I speak, a magnificent transformation is being completed on the other side of the globe — in my country. Many of us in Indonesia have waited all our lives to witness this historic event: our people finally rising to take their destiny into their own hands. Exactly a week ago, some 125 million men and women trooped to the polling stations and chose the President and Vice-President who will govern in the name of 230 million Indonesians. That was the third national political exercise that we had to carry out — not just once, but three times — in a period of six months, the previous two being the parliamentary elections and the first round of the presidential elections. All of them were peaceful, fair and democratic. Each of them was an enormous operation, covering some 6,000 islands in an archipelago with an expanse as wide as Europe’s, and involving millions of election workers attending to some 575,000 polling stations. As we coped with the massive logistical requirements of that undertaking, we were extended support and assistance by the United Nations and friendly countries. We are grateful for this. It will be some time before the official results of the vote are in. But whoever the new national leaders of Indonesia may be, they will have a clear and strong mandate from the people — not from the elite, not from the party bosses, nor from power brokers or vested interests — but from the people. This is the climax of a transition from authoritarian rule to a full- fledged democracy, a process that began six years ago in the crucible of the Asian crisis, which devastated our economy and mangled our socio-political system. We have thus become the full-fledged democracy that the founding fathers of our Republic long ago envisioned. This need for political reform is also felt by other nations. The Emir of Qatar, speaking as Chairman of the Group of 77, told this Assembly at its 3rd meeting, “Political reform and people’s participation in decision-making are no longer an option but have become a definite necessity”. Hence, we are proud of this democracy of ours. It is the fulfilment of a universal human aspiration, and yet it is unique to us. It sprang from our native soil, a true child of our culture. It was not imposed from outside, at gunpoint. And it put to rest the debate on whether Islam and democracy can ever mix. As the country with the largest Muslim population, Indonesia has proven that Islam can be a bastion of democracy and social justice. Indeed, our deep sense of spirituality inspired our people to resoundingly reject money politics, corruption, terrorism and all forms of extremism. It was also our beacon towards reform; and reform has worked for us. Although the Asian crisis instantly doubled the number of Indonesians living below the poverty line, we have since been able to reduce the poverty rate to its pre- crisis level. We did this by shifting from a Government-driven poverty-reduction strategy to one of community empowerment. This effort required funding of more than US$1 billion, making it one of the largest such programmes in the world. Through fiscal controls that dramatically lowered inflation, we stabilized the prices of essential goods. Through social safety net programmes, we helped the poor to weather the crisis. By doing this, we denied the terrorists what could have been a dangerous mass base. Since then, consumer confidence has led our economic growth. With political fears allayed and investor confidence boosted, we look forward to 4.8 per cent growth this year, and 5.5 per cent next year. We can now wage a stronger battle against poverty. By consolidating our efforts to promote the rule of law, greater respect for human rights and effective regional autonomy as the main pillars of our reform, we are confident that we can overcome threats to our national unity and security, including communal violence, separatism and terrorism. We continue to strengthen our relations with all our neighbours. We have made a fresh start with Timor-Leste, and we are building a strong relationship. 13 We look forward to a future of bilateral peace, friendship and cooperation. This does not mean that we have solved all our problems. We still have to make democracy work for us some more and to keep it working. This is what 230 million Indonesians devoutly wish, and they deserve no less. Moreover, no democracy is safe without being assured of a democratic environment at the global level. That environment cannot be created by unilateral action, no matter how mighty and well-intended. At the global level, democracy can be promoted only by democratic means, through multilateral institutions like the United Nations. If, as its detractors say, the United Nations is not an effective tool of collective security and development, this is only because it has been denied the support that it deserves from its strongest and most influential Members. But we need the United Nations to give legitimacy to the necessary use of force in the cause of collective security. And even the wealthiest nations in the world cannot bear all the costs of global security. The privilege and burden of decision-making must be shared by all. Hence, we must empower the United Nations to serve as the effective tool of multilateralism that it was always meant to be. We must reform the United Nations comprehensively, including the Security Council, by making it more democratic, in terms of procedure and representation, in order to reflect today’s geographical realities. In this regard, it may be recalled that Australia last year proposed the inclusion of Indonesia as a permanent member on the Council. We appreciate Australia’s position. It has greatly encouraged us. As the world’s third largest pluralistic democracy, the fourth most populous country, the world’s largest Muslim nation, a country of tremendous cultural diversity and a member with a track record of serving in various peace initiatives of the United Nations, Indonesia has an important global constituency on the Council. Indonesia has served in more than 30 peacekeeping missions, starting with the very first, in the Middle East in 1957. Today, Indonesian soldiers and military observers are deployed in peacekeeping missions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia and Georgia. As a founding member and active player of the Non-Aligned Movement, the Group of 77, the Group of 15, the Developing Eight and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, our commitment to the promotion of international peace and understanding is self-evident. Indonesia has made key contributions to the peaceful resolution of conflicts in its region, notably in Cambodia and southern Philippines. It continues to actively build peace and stability in the region. A developing world striving not only for social and economic progress but also for democratization must have a voice on the Security Council. Moderate Islam must have a voice on the Council. Indonesia would be that voice. And that voice will insist — as we now insist — that the fight against terrorism, like the related fight against poverty, can be won. This is not to deny that terrorists are still capable of wreaking havoc on our societies. Just two weeks ago, they struck again in the heart of Jakarta, killing nine innocent civilians and wounding 150 others. We in Indonesia condemn this act of inhuman savagery, mourn the loss of innocent life and share the pain and anger of the wounded and the bereaved families. But we are by no means intimidated. We will bring the perpetrators to justice as we have always done after every terrorist attack. Our faith remains firm that the fight against terror can be won. The world can be made immensely safer. But the global coalition to defeat terrorism must be inclusive. It must be multilateral and democratic. It must empower the moderates of the world. And it must address the root causes of terrorism: the grievances and the poignant sense of injustice that drive human beings to such depths of despair that they would carry out the most heinous acts of mass murder and destruction. It must address grievances due to a poverty that is the offshoot of social and economic inequity, the affronts of tyranny and corruption, and the failure of States to deliver a standard of living that befits human dignity. Included are grievances due to political oppression, such as the aggression and brutalities that the Palestinian people continue to suffer in the hands of the occupying Power. For the coalition that would fight terrorism and poverty to be truly multilateral and democratic, it must include the regional organizations, which are envisioned in the United Nations Charter as the pillars of global multilateralism. 14 The United Nations itself, in extending assistance and services to countries all over the world, needs support at the regional level. This is why we in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are striving to develop a robust partnership with the world Organization. We are confident that this partnership will prosper, as ASEAN evolves into a true community by the year 2020. As a security community, we will assume full responsibility for our security and political stability. As an economic and sociocultural community, we will be a stronger force for development and social integration in the Asia-Pacific region. Together with our counterparts in two continents, we are building a bridge of cooperation across the Indian Ocean to form a partnership for development. A summit of Asian and African nations will formally establish this strategic partnership in April 2005 in Jakarta. At the same time, the summit will pay tribute to a watershed event in the cause of equitable international relations. Thus, we will observe the Golden Jubilee of the Asian-African Conference held in Bandung in 1955. Moreover, ASEAN is networking in all directions, with its counterparts in the rest of the Asia- Pacific region, in Latin America and in Europe. We expect this network of regional organizations, in partnership with the United Nations, to be the ultimate form of multilateralism. This network can also help advance a global democratic agenda. To this end, Asia can make a significant contribution. Today Asia is certainly in the midst of a democratic flowering. A series of successful democratic elections in various Asian countries in recent months has been hailed worldwide as a political miracle that may be of deeper significance than the short-lived Asian economic miracle a decade ago. But democracy is never a miracle — never a gift, nor something imposed. It is always hard-earned and often the fruit of many sacrifices. And its ultimate worth depends entirely upon us, the people — on whether we have the political maturity, the wisdom and the courage to make it work and make it endure. We in Indonesia are devoutly committed to that end.My delegation warmly welcomes you to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session and pledges our support. We acknowledge that you are also from our Forum of Small States group and therefore share our common problems and challenges. Please convey my delegation’s commendation to your predecessor, the Honourable Julian Hunte, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, for his strong leadership of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. Let me also take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his staff for the good work they continue to do for our global community. We currently live in a changing world, one which past generations would even be amazed at. One of the greatest achievements of the United Nations system is the process of decolonization which has seen more than 70 countries, including my own, take their rightful place in this Assembly. The process will not be complete, however, until the remaining 16 Non-Self- Governing Territories, including New Caledonia and Tokelau, have exercised their inalienable right to self- determination. The world continues to witness great leaps in technology, but at the same time we have also seen an increase in some global dilemmas — poverty and hunger, the ravages of HIV/AIDS, wars, conflicts and terrorism, among others. Each of our countries face numerous challenges in this changing world and many of them are common to all of us, regardless of our size, location and status as developed or developing countries. Under the circumstances, and more than ever before, we need to work together as a community of nations to help each other address those challenges. Nowhere is that more evident than in the domain of international peace and security. A terrorist act committed in one State today also affects others elsewhere in the global community. We condemn the recent tragedy in Beslan, Russia, the bombing of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta and the ongoing terrorist acts in the Middle East, Iraq, and other parts of the world. We also condemn the recent 22 tragedy in Darfur, the Sudan, and commend Canada and Japan for their generous assistance. In circumstances like the foregoing, those most affected are innocent civilians, especially women and children. We therefore support the Secretary-General’s efforts to rally the international community to subscribe to the treaties on the protection of civilians. In many cases, terrorists also take the lives of United Nations and other humanitarian workers who are doing unselfish and dedicated work under difficult circumstances to serve our common humanity. In that regard, we urge all Member States to support the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel. The situation in the Middle East remains intractable, requiring constant and deliberate attention by the United Nations, especially by the Security Council. Our own experience in the Bougainville conflict has taught us that there can be peace if all parties really desire it and are willing to resolve their differences. We therefore urge all parties to the conflict in the Middle East — including Israel and Palestine, as well as the major players, particularly the Quartet — to formulate a peace plan that is mutually acceptable to all. Papua New Guinea concurs with Secretary- General Kofi Annan’s recent statement to the Assembly at its 3rd meeting, which highlighted how important it is for the rule of law to prevail if we are to achieve peace and security in the world. Like many other Member States, Papua New Guinea has acceded to the various counter-terrorism treaties, pursuant to Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We believe that the reporting obligations under the provisions of those treaties should be streamlined to include regional reports, which would solve many capacity issues for small nations with limited resources. Because many of our regional legal, military and law enforcement agencies meet regularly, those meetings could provide the opportunity to compile regional reports on our fight against international terrorism. We believe that there is every desire to fulfil treaty obligations; but if some of the more onerous tasks can be lightened for the small countries through regional reports, bodies like the Counter-Terrorism Committee, the Security Council, the General Assembly and other related agencies could be better served. The small States are doing their best to fulfil their obligations. Like many other Members States, we take seriously our responsibilities and obligations to fight the scourge of international terrorism and related issues including the trafficking of people. The Pacific region advocates that the United Nations continue to closely and seriously study the notion of collective security along with collective action, ideas upon which many of our actions to bring stability to our region continue to be based. We are custodians of the biggest ocean and its resources. Papua New Guinea, in particular, is endowed with 5 to 7 per cent of the world’s biodiversity. We therefore share a common responsibility to ensure the protection and conservation of those resources which are of vital importance to humanity. We encourage sustainable logging practices in order to avoid the denuding of our vast rainforest resources. We condemn destructive fishing methods and urge all Member States to adhere to sustainable management and conservation regimes in order to meet future demands. At the Pacific Islands Forum, our leaders recently adopted a new vision for the Pacific region in the form of the Pacific Plan, which embraces four key areas: economic growth, sustainable development, security and good governance. The Pacific Islands Forum will be engaging with the European Union and other development partners to advance the interests of the region, especially those of economic growth and sustainable development. I share the view enunciated by other speakers that there can be no security without development, and that equally, there can be no development without peace and security. As important links, both need to be addressed simultaneously if we want peace and sustainable development to prevail. We are pleased to see regional solidarity and assistance in conflict situations bear good results in Bougainville and in our neighbour, the Solomon Islands. We also note that other regional actions taken by our leaders, such as the establishment of the Pacific Transnational Crime Coordination Centre in Fiji, enhance law enforcement and intelligence sharing in the region. Concerning good governance, our leaders encouraged Pacific Member Governments to sign and 23 ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption in accordance with the spirit of the Biketawa Declaration. Over the past several years, Papua New Guinea has been the beneficiary of regional and international assistance in the rebuilding and return to normalcy of the island of Bougainville, after a decade-long conflict. We thank the members of the Security Council, both past and present, for their goodwill, patience and understanding in what has been an extremely painful experience for us. We have appreciated the support and counsel of each member of the Council throughout that important process. The conflict has greatly affected our nation and we have learned many lessons. We are re- establishing the rule of law in a profound and thorough constitutional process which will result in a democratically elected autonomous government for the people of Bougainville. While we are close to achieving that, we are equally mindful that each step taken now to finalize and consolidate the Bougainville constitution is critically important for the autonomous government of Bougainville to be sustained successfully. We continue to receive valuable support and assistance for the peace process from the Secretary- General as well as from our Pacific neighbours: Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Tonga, Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands. Rebuilding and restoration of services in Bougainville has been greatly assisted by our development partners, including the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the European Union, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, among others. We thank them all and look forward to their continued support and cooperation. We continue to be concerned about the security and vulnerability of many of our small island States. As noted and endorsed by Pacific leaders at the recent Pacific Islands Forum Summit in Samoa, the forthcoming International Meeting on the 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action, to be held in Mauritius in 2005, will provide an opportunity to discuss with our development partners the many issues which confront small island States, including those in our subregion. Development of women and children through sports must have a special place in our quest to improve the socio-economic well-being of our people. We are also working hard to implement the Millennium Development Goals and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD). The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to have devastating consequences in many developing countries. Our leaders in the Pacific region have endorsed a regional strategy for HIV/AIDS noting the need to address the issue urgently. Small arms and light weapons will always threaten the stability of many small States. Therefore, we look forward to the continuing work towards a United-Nations-supported action plan for dealing with small arms. Climate change is a threat to all humankind and therefore deserves the attention of the international community, which must work together to address it. We are appreciative of the position of the United Kingdom as underlined by Prime Minister, The Right Honourable Tony Blair, in a recent statement highlighting the threat of sea level rise and related issues. I am aware that there are scientific studies being carried out, but the real issue is that the effects of climate change and global warming are being felt daily by many island States. We in Papua New Guinea are no more immune to climate change and sea level rise than are many other small island States. The island communities in Papua New Guinea, like those of our neighbouring countries in the Pacific, are being affected adversely by sea level rise. We empathize with our colleagues from many other island States which continually suffer from the effects of the problem. Our plight is further compounded by natural disasters, including the ravages of hurricanes, cyclones, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, floods and tsunamis. In that context, our sympathies go to the peoples and the Governments of the Caribbean region, especially those of Grenada, Haiti, Jamaica, Cuba, the Bahamas and the Dominican Republic, among others, as well as to the inhabitants of cities and towns of the southern states of the United States of America, which have been devastated by the recent hurricanes. As a global community we must pool our resources and consider ways of mitigating the adverse effects of climate change in order to help those States which are vulnerable. We applaud the intention of the Russian Federation to consider becoming a party to the Kyoto Protocol and urge others to recognize their responsibility to the global community by doing the same. 24 We look forward to the final report of the High- level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change appointed by the Secretary-General, which will form the basis for high-level discussions on United Nations reforms, including the expansion and composition of the Security Council. We believe Council membership should be expanded in both the permanent and the non- permanent categories to take into account the lack of sufficient representation of developing countries in the Asia-Pacific, African and Latin American regions. We also believe that Japan and Germany should be seriously considered for permanent membership, with equal privileges and obligations. Consideration may be given to other countries with appropriate qualifications and integrity, particularly from the developing world. We also commend the indications from the Panel that the definition of “hard” versus “soft” threats is no longer relevant. That will allow a proper and objective discussion to be held, given that the resonance of perceived threats can be viewed differently depending on where the threat is. That said, Papua New Guinea believes that reform of the United Nations system should be comprehensive and that the General Assembly should regain its pre-eminent role as the principal organ of the United Nations. That will enable all Member States, large and small, to engage more meaningfully in addressing all challenges in an effective way in order to help the United Nations fulfil its role in the pursuit of a peaceful, just and prosperous world. That is the purpose for which the United Nations was established. As we move towards next year’s review of the Millennium Development Goals and the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations, we should all look at the dire needs of the majority of humanity. My delegation believes that the Millennium Development Goals provide the blueprint for achieving those objectives. Finally, let me conclude by reaffirming Papua New Guinea’s support for the one-China policy, which provides the sound basis for our bilateral relations with the People’s Republic of China.The delegation of Senegal would like to congratulate you very warmly, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I assure you of our full support as you carry out your noble work. I also wish to extend my congratulations and encouragement to all the members of the Bureau. I would also like to recognize the commitment of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, whose tireless efforts to make the United Nations a strong, working and credible Organization reflects his faith in the ideals of peace, development and concord among peoples. We must now continue to breathe life into these ideals, so that current and future generations will have a peaceful and safe world, a world without absurd hatred or gratuitous violence. This vision should lead us to re- invigorate the values of multilateralism and universality that are epitomized by our Organization. In other words, the world needs now, more than ever, a United Nations that is strong and strengthened in its legitimacy. We welcome, therefore, the decision of the United Nations Secretary-General to establish a panel of eminent persons on threats, challenges and change, whose conclusions will be presented next December. In this respect, we recall the African position on reform of the Security Council, which advocates among other things, the assignment to Africa of at least two permanent seats and two extra non-permanent seats. Africa would choose the recipients of those seats according to a process that has yet to be determined. As I extol universality, I feel it is unfair that the Republic of China on Taiwan, with its 23 million inhabitants, its major democratic system and its impressive economic vitality, would still be sidelined from the work of the United Nations, whose Charter does rightly enshrine the essential principles of justice and universality. This denial of justice also affects the valiant people of Palestine, who, under the legitimate authority of President Yasser Arafat, have been deprived of its fundamental right to sovereignty and ongoing existence. The defiant attitude of the occupying Power vis-à-vis the international community, recently illustrated by the Israeli authorities’ refusal to abide by the opinion of the International Court of Justice requiring Israel to immediately stop the illegal building 2 of the separation wall in Palestinian territory, imperils the foundations of international legality. I solemnly appeal to the international community and, in particular, to the members of the Quartet, asking them to persevere in their efforts for an immediate resumption of dialogue, so that we may achieve a fair, equitable and lasting solution to this disagreement. The peoples of Palestine and Israel, needless to recall, are condemned by history and geography to live together. For our part, Senegal, which chairs the United Nations Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, will continue, with its people, to unfailingly support the Palestinian people, battered by this crisis that has lasted far too long. As a contribution to the quest for peace, I suggested that we conduct a special meeting, outside our regular work, on the situation in Palestine aimed at enhancing the work launched by the Quartet and in the spirit of the road map, in order to establish by 2005 a sovereign and viable Palestinian State, living side by side with the State of Israel, within safe and internationally recognized borders guaranteed for the two States. This initiative, which has already been endorsed by the Non-Aligned Movement and the African Union, will provide an opportunity to mobilize the international community around the effective implementation of the road map. In awarding me yesterday the 2004 Human Rights Award, the International League for Human Rights in fact honoured, through Senegal’s head of State, all of the Senegalese people, a people attached to freedom and to the respect of human dignity. My Government will continue to work to promote and protect human rights, the rule of law and good public and private governance. In talking about human rights, I am naturally thinking of the fundamental rights of women, children, disabled persons, seniors and all vulnerable people. This deep commitment to mankind motivated my decision to submit draft legislation to the Senegalese national assembly to abolish capital punishment in Senegal. Almost 60 years after the establishment of our Organization, our world, which is so fragile, still sees longstanding dangers such as nuclear proliferation and the emergence of new dangers such as terrorism and AIDS, which represent a serious threat to international peace and security. I must remind Members here of the need to do more to strengthen, under the leadership of the Security Council’s Counter-Terrorism Committee, the mechanisms that already exist for cooperation and technical assistance in order to provide those countries who so wish human, technical and adequate financial resources to combat terrorism. This initiative, of course, must be paired with States’ increased adherence to treaties and protocols in this key area. It is for this purpose that the African Union adopted last July an additional protocol to the Organization of African Unity’s Algiers Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism, proposed by Senegal on 17 October 2001 at the African conference on terrorism, held in Dakar. This collective approach should also be adopted to tackle the difficult problem of small arms and light weapons. Senegal supports making the moratorium on the importation, exportation and production of small arms and light weapons of the Economic Community of West African States into a convention in West Africa, since these arms are truly weapons of mass destruction in our subregion. There are other destructive scourges. I would like to speak about AIDS. In accordance with the declaration that we adopted in 2001, we must act more quickly and more vigorously in critical areas such as prevention and access to antiretroviral treatments if we really do wish to stop this disease and its devastating effects. Since antiretroviral medication is now free for all those who are afflicted, thanks to our tenacity, Senegal has remained a success story in combating AIDS. Another seemingly ignored ill is poliomyelitis, which we have completely eliminated in Senegal. However, this scourge remains as serious as ever in the rest of Africa. During this second trimester of 2004, the North and West parts of Africa have witnessed the invasion of swarms of locusts, the dreaded scourge which has infested large agricultural areas in the region of the Sahel and some North African countries. This threat, which has already destroyed entire civilizations, is now compromising the lives of tens of millions of people right before harvest time. At the very beginning, I personally sounded the alarm, speaking to the international community in Rome last March. Despite another appeal by the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), assistance was late in coming and is only now under way, but in ways that are not very effective. 3 Whatever the case may be, Senegal has begun to work on this issue, and today we are succeeding in containing this danger. Together with neighbouring countries, the countries bordering the Sahel, we are trying to launch an extensive campaign for the final elimination of these locusts. In this regard, we note with great satisfaction the involvement of African countries, including Algeria, Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa, Libya and Egypt in this issue. Today, our people remain concerned about the possible migration of these locusts, carried by the wind, to other areas in the region, in particular to the Maghreb. We are also pleased to announce that we have received substantial support by the World Bank, among other international organizations. This means that we have a shared responsibility to strengthen and mobilize the international community against locusts and, if we succeed in saving the crops, to completely eliminate them, starting at their source. The task at hand in this area should not make us lose sight of the huge field of work that remains to be tackled, namely combating the poverty that strikes millions of people throughout the world, in particular in the least developed countries so that we can achieve the Millennium Development Goals in terms of agriculture. I must say here that I am satisfied with the outcome of the meeting that was held on the initiative of President Lula, the President of Brazil. Yet we all see and are concerned that, as has been emphasized by the Secretary-General and others, in spite of the relative improvement in the economic situation in Africa since 1995, the chances of our continent achieving the Millennium Development Goals are still rather low given the lack of progress to date. Implementation of those Goals is particularly at risk even at a time when the world economy is progressing in an encouraging way: Africa continues, mainly because of the export subsidies of developed countries, to be marginalized in world trade. It is a truism to say that those subsidies help to impoverish African producer countries and increase unemployment. Another problem is the thorny issue of African debt. The continent has dedicated itself to resolution of this problem: next year we will hold a major summit preceded by a technical meeting on ending Africa’s indebtedness. The Extraordinary Summit of the African Union on Employment and Poverty Alleviation in Africa, just held in Ouagadougou on 8 and 9 September, illustrates our continent’s determination to continue to devote special attention to the fight against unemployment, which is a key priority for development. A successful outcome — in keeping with the outcomes of the various summits which have given direction to the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) — requires the international community to make a stronger commitment, alongside Africa, to help materialize this important partnership programme. And that is why I say that I am pleased to see the progress we have made on NEPAD financing since the Group of Eight (G-8) meeting in Kananaskis, Canada. Although insufficiently highlighted, efforts for African development made under NEPAD and the support actions of the international community — particularly those taken by the G-8 and the United Nations system — are still in evidence, which pleases me. We have made basically two proposals. The first has to do with the convening in Senegal’s capital of an agricultural forum, on the model of the Davos economic forum, for the purpose, inter alia, of closing the world agricultural gap. It will be held in February 2005 in Dakar. The ever-growing digital divide separates the developed countries from the developing countries. In December 2003 in Geneva, the Secretary-General convened The World Summit on the Information Society. On that occasion, Africa proposed, through myself, the idea of digital solidarity among peoples and the establishment of a digital solidarity fund based on volunteer efforts and not funded by any mandatory tax. That idea was received with unanimous enthusiasm by developing countries — Africa, Asia, Brazil, the Middle East — and by a developed country: France. Subsequently, the inaugural congress for the United Cities and Local Governments organization was held in Paris in May 2004; participants officially announced their participation in the digital solidarity fund. To the cities already mentioned elsewhere, I could add Rome, Paris, Lille and Bilbao. We are pleased that the Secretary-General has established a task force on financing the information society under the decision adopted at Geneva. Providing Africa with the hardware and other computer technology it needs is the only way to give us access to the knowledge that accelerates development and, which, in turn, will help to close the digital divide. 4 As members can see, the challenges we face are enormous, numerous and pressing. The time has come to strengthen the foundations of international cooperation and, once and for all, to exorcize the risk of social bipolarization throughout the world where affluence rubs elbows with the most extreme poverty and where the values of solidarity and respect for the sacredness of human life become vain words. That is why I suggested that we hold an international conference in Dakar on an Islamic-Christian dialogue, whose objectives would be to help us better understand one another, to strengthen peaceful coexistence between Muslims and Christians and to promote a dialogue among cultures. Thus, by hosting the eleventh Islamic Summit in 2006, Senegal, which has a majority Muslim population living in perfect harmony with their Christian brothers, will continue its action to promote fruitful inter-religious dialogue focused on the sacrosanct principle of respect for the cultural and religious identities of all peoples.I would like to congratulate you, Sir, the Foreign Minister of Gabon, upon your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly and to wish you much success. The United Nations was established out of the devastation of the Second World War in order to build a world of unity and of peace. Today, 60 years after the Organization came into being, we must ask ourselves: What are we united for and what are we united against? Are we united for peace and security? Are we united for fairness and justice? Are we united against terror? Are we united against tyranny? Or are we, sadly, united only in cynical and immoral majority votes that make a mockery of the noble ideals on which this body was founded? Tomorrow is Yom Kippur, the holiest day of the Jewish calendar, when all Jews stand before God to account for their actions. It is an appropriate time for all 19 nations, separately and together, to engage in such an accounting. I sense a change in the world. In the face of the global campaign of terror which has left no country free of its devastating impact, the world is beginning to realize what we in Israel have long known: that terrorism is a challenge to humanity as a whole, not just to individual countries; that the response to that global threat must also be global if it is to be effective; that the threat of terrorism anywhere is a threat to freedom everywhere; that fighting terror is crucial to our ability to bring peace. There was a time when the problems of terror, Islamic fundamentalism and Iranian nuclear ambition were seen as local problems — Israel’s problems — not challenges which threatened the community of nations as a whole. Today, however, our community of nations is more united than ever in the battle against terrorism, whose sole objective is to undermine everything that we seek to build: peace, stability, prosperity and opportunity for all. Today we are also more united than ever in opposition to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The international community now realizes that Iran — with missiles that can reach London, Paris, Berlin and southern Russia — poses a threat not only to the security of Israel, but to the security and stability of the whole world. Indeed, Iran has replaced Saddam Hussein as the world’s number-one exporter of terror, hate and instability. The international community now also realizes, as reflected in Security Council resolution 1559 (2004), that Syria’s occupation of Lebanon and its support for Palestinian terror must end if our collective aspirations are to be fulfilled. And the international community now realizes that terror and tyranny are the twin enemies of the individual freedoms and human rights — including the right to life itself — which define our humanity. Today, the community of nations knows that securing freedom and democracy for all the peoples of the world must be our collective goal. The pictures of human flesh torn apart by the terrorists, from New York to Beslan — and just yesterday, once again, in Jerusalem — are waking us up to the challenge we face. In that spirit of unity, and in the name of all those in the world who suffer from terror and tyranny, I call on the Assembly to refocus its aspirations and its priorities. I call on the Assembly to end its obsession with Israel and to ensure that United Nations resources are allocated more equally and more effectively. Our United Nations must provide solutions to the global challenges of hunger and poverty, of disease and weapons proliferation, of drug trafficking and sustainable development. We must not let the Palestinian desire to vilify Israel distract our global community from the obligation to address the needs of all peoples. I call on the Assembly to address head-on the active involvement of Iran and Syria in terrorism and Syria’s continued occupation of Lebanon. There can be no place in the community of nations for those who promote the killing of children. I call on the Assembly to promote practical measures to help nations cut off all financial and political lifelines of terror. I call on the Assembly to address the growth of anti-Semitism and other forms of racism and intolerance. I urge you, Mr. President, and the Secretary-General, to convene a special session of the Assembly on that crucial matter. We all share the responsibility to educate our children to understanding and tolerance rather than to hatred and incitement. We must build a united and global coalition to fight terrorism, racism and anti-Semitism. We must build a united front against the cold-blooded murderers of our children. In that battle, there is no middle ground. There is no room for explanations or excuses. There are no mitigating circumstances. Declarations and condemnations are very important, but they are not enough. Every nation, every Government, every leader has the responsibility to act. Those who choose instead to support and sponsor terror must be isolated and held to account for their crimes. When I speak of terror and its dangers to life and freedom, I speak from bitter personal experience. My own home town of Beersheva suffered a double suicide bombing just three weeks ago. Sixteen innocent people were killed when their commuter buses were blown up. In the middle of an important meeting with visiting officials, I rushed to call my mother and brother to check that they were alive. Hamas, which operates freely from Palestinian territory and receives support and safe haven from the regimes in Damascus and Tehran, proudly claimed responsibility for that horrific attack. 20 Again yesterday, as I was meeting with the Secretary-General to discuss peace in the Middle East, I was passed a note informing me of a suicide atrocity, in which two more Israelis were blown to pieces by a Palestinian terrorist. And this morning, once again, yet more Palestinian murderers took the lives of three young Israelis in an attack on Morag. In the last year alone, 150 Israelis have been killed and thousands more injured in more than 40 separate suicide bombings and other cold-blooded attacks. More than 200 additional suicide-bombing attempts were blocked by our defensive measures. No Israeli mother is free of the fear that her child may be lost. No Israeli child is immune to the terrorists’ plans. In the name of God above and all humanity here on Earth, this killing must stop. Palestinian terrorism is the key reason that the dream of peace in the Middle East has not yet become a reality. Combating this terror is crucial to the prospects for peace in our region. No peace initiative can survive if terrorists continue to enjoy a free hand to undermine it. The road map recognizes this, calling, in phase one, for sustained Palestinian action against terror, the dismantling of terrorist organizations and the end of incitement in schools and the media. Sadly, the current Palestinian leadership has refused to fulfil those fundamental obligations, preferring to blame Israel for all its failures. The Palestinian side spends more energy fighting Israel here at the United Nations than it does fighting the terrorists in its own territory. In the post-11-September world, this is not acceptable. The Palestinians are not exempt from the imperatives of the global war on terror. On the contrary, it is in their clear interest to join it. To stand up against Hamas and Islamic Jihad is to stand up for Palestinian rights, not against them. We urge the international community to recognize this reality and help the voices of reform and moderation within Palestinian society to emerge. The future of the Palestinian people will be determined by the choices that the Palestinians and their leadership make on the ground. The solutions — for the Palestinians and Israelis as one — lie in Gaza and Ramallah, not in The Hague or New York. Israel is acting in both the diplomatic and the security arenas to deal with the consequences of this chronic failure of the Palestinian leadership. On the diplomatic front, Israel accepted the road map in May 2003, and we remain committed to its realization. At this time, however, we have no responsible Palestinian partner ready to join us in this effort. Israel is now planning to implement the disengagement plan as a means of enhancing security and establishing a new, more promising platform for a return to negotiations. We are in constant contact with the donor community and the World Bank in a joint effort to rebuild Gaza in the wake of Israel’s withdrawal. On the security front, Israel is building a security fence to stop the unchecked wave of Palestinian attacks. After 20,000 terrorist attacks, we deserve to protect our people. No other country would act otherwise after 20, let alone 20,000, terrorist attacks. The fence does not take lives. It saves them. Where there is a fence, there is no terror. Where there is no fence, there is terror. The modified route of the fence reflects the necessary balance between the security of our citizens and the welfare of the Palestinian population, as called for by Israel’s Supreme Court. Most important, the fence is reversible. The lives taken by terror are irreversible. By helping take terrorism out of the equation, the fence contributes to the prospect of a return to negotiations and the realization of the road map’s vision of peace. I call on the Assembly to acknowledge this truth and to reject the continued Palestinian effort to have delegations address Israel’s response to terrorism, instead of addressing the terrorism itself. Ultimately, we need real contact and dialogue, based on mutual respect for the humanity of the other if we are to resolve the conflict in the Middle East. The Government of Israel is ready for such contact. We are ready to talk to any leadership — from Syria, Lebanon or the Palestinians — that comes to the table without terror and with the genuine intention of finding mutually acceptable solutions to our differences. Tomorrow, Yom Kippur, is a day of prayer, fasting and soul-searching for the Jews. In Beersheva, in a synagogue named after my father, I will be praying together with those who have recently buried their murdered children. I will pray that our collective aspiration for life and freedom will prevail over the terrorists and those who sponsor them. I will pray that God will deliver peace on earth, for all humanity. And I will pray that mankind can unite — through the 21 United Nations — to help make this dream become a reality. And I would like to say in Hebrew, Happy New Year.Let me begin by congratulating you, Mr. Ping, on your election as President of the General Assembly during its fifty- ninth session. We are confident that you will conduct the proceedings of this session with great competence. I would like to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, who so ably presided over the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I would like to express at this time my deep appreciation for the efforts of the Secretary-General to harmonize international relations and ensure respect for the principles of the Charter and international law, with a view to strengthening international peace and security. His statement before this Assembly marks a 26 landmark in the quest for the rule of law and respect for the role of the United Nations in international conflicts. In my statement, I will focus on the turbulent situation in the Middle East and, more specifically, on the core of the conflict in the Middle East. The situation in the region of Western Asia — or the Middle East — is in turmoil. The occupation of Iraq was founded on false pretexts, further damaging the already grave situation resulting from Israel’s policies and practices in occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories. A total absence of law and order is now the general pattern of life in occupied Iraq. This continued occupation is wreaking havoc on the economic and social aspects of life there. We urge the competent institutions, namely the United Nations General Assembly and the Security Council, to take the necessary and appropriate measures to ensure Iraq’s independence and sovereignty as soon as possible. Israel is the only nuclear Power in the Middle East. It has approximately the fourth most powerful army in the world and is a sophisticated arms developer and dealer with no ethical or moral constraints and no concern for human rights. The Israeli Government can therefore do anything it wishes, and it acts like a high-tech military expert and rogue State. It has become tremendously useful for the United States, since it has strategically placed itself in the centre of the global arms industry. Counting on the support of the United States, Israel breaks moral and international laws with impunity. The daily assaults on peaceful Palestinian towns and villages — the demolition of homes and houses, the bulldozing and uprooting of age-old fruit-bearing olive and citrus trees, the targeted killings and assassinations, the closures, the imposition of a state of siege and curfews and the use of excessively disproportionate firepower, which has resulted, so far, in more than 3,200 deaths and thousands of injuries — are common knowledge. We completely reject the allegation by Israel that this is carried out in self- defence. The Palestinians under occupation, with their meagre means of combat, are the party exercising the right to self-defence. Almost 8,000 Palestinians are being held without trial under merciless conditions, and when they protested against those conditions, an Israeli minister boasted, and I quote, “let them go on a hunger strike until they die”. In addition to all the other methods Israel uses to obstruct peace, it holds our democratically elected President, Yasser Arafat, in confinement and has announced that they can find no partner with whom to negotiate peace. With whom are the negotiations for settlement and peace to be negotiated, if not with the democratically elected President? Israel, and others of the same mind, must wish to see a continuation of the status quo or to deal with an imposed — and not democratically elected — group or person. The performance-based road map was unanimously backed by Security Council resolution 1515 (2003). We have accepted the road map since, in our opinion, it augured well. The road map envisaged a two-State solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and stated that the solution of the conflict “will only be achieved through an end to violence and terrorism, when the Palestinian people have a leadership acting decisively against terror and willing and able to build a practising democracy based on tolerance and liberty, and through Israel’s readiness to do what is necessary for a democratic Palestinian state to be established”. The Palestinians, through their representative, the Palestine Liberation Organization, embraced the road map and believes it offers another opportunity to end the conflict. We hope that the Quartet will seriously assume the noble task of implementing the objectives of the road map. Acts of State terrorism were Israel’s response to the performance-based road map. To be more specific, a 2,000-pound bomb was dropped after the Palestinians scrupulously observed an unofficial ceasefire. Israel still adheres to the 14 reservations it had regarding the road map. The nebulous ideas and intentions revealed in the exchange of letters between President Bush and Prime Minister Sharon on the matter of the commitment to the road map are far from encouraging and keep the road map and Security Council resolution 1515 (2003) in limbo if not completely neglecting and rejecting them. In his letter of assurance dated 14 April 2004 to Prime Minister Sharon, President Bush reiterates that “the United States supports the establishment of a Palestinian state that is viable, contiguous, sovereign, and independent, so that the Palestinian people can build their own future in 27 accordance with … the path set forth in the roadmap”. However, when President Bush addresses the reality on the ground, he assures Israel that “it is unrealistic to expect that the outcome of final status negotiations will be a full and complete return to the armistice lines of 1949”. He admits that as part of a final peace settlement, Israel must have secure and recognized borders, which should emerge from negotiations between the parties in accordance with United Nations Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). However, Mr. Bush and Mr. Sharon do not topographically identify the secure and recognized borders of Israel. In the aforementioned letter of assurance, President Bush stresses that the United States is strongly committed to Israel’s security and well-being as a Jewish State. He does not concern himself with the security of the so-called provisional State of Palestine. He seems to be oblivious to the fact that 20 per cent of the citizens of Israel are non-Jewish and that Israel has not as yet defined who is a Jew. This concept will inevitably lead to the creation of a racist society within the Israeli political entity. To ensure the success of the road map and the achievement of its goal — a final and comprehensive settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by 2005 — the plan also requires that Israel “freezes all settlement activity” and “withdraws from Palestinian areas occupied from 28 September 2000”. Commenting on the meeting between President Bush and Prime Minister Sharon, Javier Solana, European Union High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, stated on 15 April 2004: “The EU remains firmly committed to a negotiated settlement resulting in two viable, sovereign and independent States … as the only way to achieve a permanent peace and an end to the occupation that began in 1967, in the framework of a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. “EU heads of State or Government recently indicated that they would not recognize any change to the pre-1967 borders other than those arrived at by agreement between the parties. A permanent settlement must also include an agreed, just, fair and realistic solution to the refugee issue”. In order further to deviate from the direct route to the targeted destination, Sharon declared that he was absolutely determined to carry out disengagement in Gaza despite the political problems within his own party, the Likud. Indeed, the party believes that disengagement conflicts with the Zionist aim of the creeping annexation of Palestinian territory. Sharon’s plan creates a situation in which Israel will have to leave the settlements but will still control everything that enters and exits Gaza. It will tightly seal off Gaza and block the only outlet that allows Palestinians in Gaza to cross into and from neighbouring Egypt. All of this is a source of concern for the international community, as reflected in the number of meetings held by the General Assembly. Israel did not heed the request by the Assembly in resolution ES-10/14, which, by necessity, called for an advisory opinion by the International Court of Justice on the following question: “What are the legal consequences arising from the construction of the wall being built by Israel, the occupying Power, in the occupied Palestinian territory, including in and around East Jerusalem, as described in the report of the Secretary-General, considering the rules and principles of international law, including the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949, and relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions?” The General Assembly, by an overwhelming majority of 150 votes, acknowledged the Court’s advisory opinion of 9 July 2004. The representatives of the Governments of the United States of America and of Israel were among the six countries that voted against. I wish to avail myself of this opportunity to express our great appreciation for the learned opinion of the judges. I wish to quote from the opinion, as it is of direct relevance to the General Assembly: “All States are under an obligation not to recognize the illegal situation resulting from the construction of the wall and not to render aid or assistance in maintaining the situation created by such construction; 28 “… The United Nations, and especially the General Assembly and the Security Council, should consider what further action is required to bring to an end the illegal situation resulting from the construction of the wall and the associated regime, taking due account of the present advisory opinion.” In order to restore faith and confidence in the effectiveness of the United Nations and its Charter, I would appeal that the opinion of the Court be heeded and that action-oriented resolutions, including concrete mechanisms for implementation, be adopted and carried out. The Palestinian people and leadership have demonstrated goodwill and accepted in good faith the provisions of the road map and other proposals leading to the termination of the Israeli occupation of our Palestinian territory, so that we in the Middle East can all live in peace and security and stability. What is needed is for the other party, Israel, to commit itself to respond, in word and in deed.It is a great pleasure to have Mr. Jean Ping presiding over the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I am confident that his wealth of experience and the friendly ties that his sisterly country enjoys with all countries of the world will be a major asset for the Assembly as it discharges its tasks. The success of the present session will build upon the accomplishments of the fifty-eighth session under the leadership of the previous President, Mr. Julian Hunte, who made an important contribution to the revitalization of the role of the General Assembly in various fields. I would also like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his tireless efforts to enhance the status of the Organization and to strengthen its role in the international arena, in particular in the area of regional and national development. At the outset of the fifty-ninth session we must scrutinize the international environment in which it is being held. We have to consider world events to determine their direction, to decide where we stand on them and to understand their impact, whether positive or negative, on the achievement of our shared goal: the promotion of international peace and security. 18 Indeed, we need to pause to see where this world and this international community are heading. Is it and are we ascending towards upholding the values of democracy, justice and the rule of law, or are we descending into tyranny, the law of the jungle and the imposition of the policies of fait accompli? Can it be said that events in the world today emanate from a genuine belief in the might of right, or do they, most regrettably, represent a consolidation of the arrogance of power? The events witnessed by the world today are a cause of grave concern to all those who believe in the tenets and principles on which the international system was established. We are witnessing the collapse of noble values and the disintegration of principles once thought unassailable. National sovereignty and territorial integrity are no longer sufficient to prevent interference in the internal affairs of States. Indeed, those internal affairs have themselves become pretexts for those who wish to impose their policies on others. The international situation forces us to consider the critical question of what we seek from this world and what we have offered in return. We claim that we want a world free from conflict and wars, but what have we done to create such a world? We claim that we want an international community governed by legality and the rule of law, as the Secretary-General said on Tuesday, but are we seriously upholding the values of legality and law? We claim that we wish to see all peoples enjoying democracy, but should States not practice democracy in the conduct of their foreign relations as well? Relations among States are by nature volatile and easy to break, but they are reparable. It may be difficult at times to repair them, but the calculations pertaining to constantly changing interests will eventually make it possible to do so. Relations among peoples, however, are different. Their wounds are readily inflamed and heal slowly or hardly at all. It is therefore incumbent upon us, in our feverish attempts to achieve our own interests, to take special care to avoid flashpoints between peoples, civilizations and cultures. Their memories store all of their experiences and tribulations. Nothing stored in their collective memory fades or disappears with time. For more than a decade now, Egypt has called and continues to call for the convening of an international conference under United Nations auspices to consider the phenomenon of terrorism and to agree on means to combat it through effective collective international efforts. Proceeding from our belief in the importance and centrality of the role of the United Nations in the coordination of international efforts to combat terrorism, as exercised through the General Assembly and the Security Council, we propose that the Assembly establish an open-ended working group to consider proposals to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the United Nations and its ability to achieve international anti-terrorism goals. That could be accompanied by the convening of regional preparatory meetings to catalogue regional needs and areas conducive to international cooperation, which could in turn ultimately lead to the adoption at an international summit of a draft comprehensive framework convention to combat terrorism. I should like to take this opportunity to describe the situation in our part of the world and the threats and challenges it faces. The main threat to the Middle East flows from the continued acquisition by some of nuclear weapons. While we all agree on the dangers posed by those weapons and on the need to halt their proliferation as one step towards eliminating them and freeing humanity from the threat they represent, the international community continues to address the question of weapons of mass destruction selectively. While the international community seeks to impose a strict system to monitor the imports of all Member States within the non-proliferation regime — which, incidentally, includes all Arab States — it turns a blind eye to the ongoing stockpiling of nuclear capabilities by one party in the region. I invite all to question whether it is acceptable for the threat of nuclear proliferation to continue to loom over the Middle East. I leave it to all to decide whether the international approach to the question is fair or is one of double standards; whether it is capable of addressing those dangers and threats, or whether we are in need of urgent radical change. The ongoing application of double standards will not only exacerbate the risks of nuclear proliferation and weaken the belief in the credibility and centrality of the relevant international regime, but also aggravate the tense situation in the Middle East. In order to ease that tension and to avert those dangers, in 1990 President Mubarak launched the Egyptian initiative to create a 19 zone free from weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. In the year that has elapsed between the opening of the fifty-eighth and the fifty-ninth sessions, the suffering of the Palestinian people has continued. The Palestinian people has been subject to acts of aggression and its legitimate rights have continued to be violated. The tragedies visited upon Palestinians have become a permanent item of newscasts and newspaper headlines. A new report emerges every day of the demolition of homes, the destruction of infrastructure, the targeting of unarmed civilians, assassinations, collective punishments, and the imposition of curfews and closures. There is no end in sight to such policies. All this suffering has been met by an inexplicable international silence, with the exception of some timid expression of dissatisfaction or, at best, displeasure at events unfolding there. Such responses entrench, rather than change, the situation of fait accompli. Israel also continues to build the separation wall on Palestinian lands. The wall separates students from their schools, workers from their factories and farmers from their fields. Had Israel’s objective in the construction of the wall truly been to ensure its own security, it would have built it on its own land. The advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice declared the wall’s construction illegal and called for a halt to construction activities and for the removal of the sections already constructed. The opinion sent a strong message to the international community in general, and to Israel in particular, to the effect that the torch of justice still burns bright. It may have seemed to flicker, but it has not been extinguished. The scales of justice still prevail. They may seem to have been upset, but they have neither fallen nor been tipped. Our region needs the construction of bridges that connect, not walls that separate. Our region needs a channel for the hopes for a promising future, not barriers that hold the region captive to the past and its tribulations. Our region needs the serious action and sincere cooperation of all in order to dislodge the political peace process from its current impasse and put it back on track. The way out of this bloody dilemma is well known. It was laid down by the international Quartet in the road map that enjoys the support of the entire international community. The ultimate destination of that path is also well known. It was enunciated by United States President George Bush in his vision of the establishment of two independent States, Palestine and Israel, living side by side in peace and security. That is the road before us; those are its landmarks and its goals. There is neither time for waiting nor room for foot-dragging. Prompt and effective action is needed to break the cycle of violence, to restore calm and to resume the process of political negotiations. Such negotiations are the one and only way to end the Arab-Israeli conflict. In that regard, Israel’s intended withdrawal from the Gaza Strip could be a significant step. If the withdrawal takes place in a rational, disciplined and orderly manner, it could enable us to begin to overcome the crisis and to put the peace process back on track. However, if it is carried out in an attitude of stubbornness and short-sightedness, it will lead only to tension and further violence. In order to achieve the goal of an Israeli withdrawal, a number of elements must be ensured. In particular, the withdrawal must take place as an integral and clear part of the road map, and it must be full and complete. The withdrawal must include all crossing points, the seaport and the airport; otherwise, it will be just another way to impose a blockade on and confinement of the Palestinian people. A complete Israeli withdrawal means not only the departure of occupation forces from the Gaza Strip, but also an end to the policy of incursions, raids and assassinations, which must be followed by a withdrawal from all the occupied Palestinian territories in the West Bank. Despite all the efforts and appeals for peace, the bloodshed continues unabated in the Middle East. We had pinned our hopes on the transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqi people at the end of June and on the formation of an Iraqi Government and National Council. It was hoped that those would be the first steps towards the restoration by the Iraqis of their full sovereignty on their own national soil and towards ending the foreign presence in that long-suffering country. However, the events of recent months and days have shown — and current events continue to show every day — that the Iraqi people continue to live in conditions that are far from stable. We wonder whose interests are served by the events in Iraq. Who is to benefit from the destruction of that country, with its age-old civilization? Will the 20 events taking place in Iraq remain confined to that country, or will they spread beyond its borders like fire, causing destruction and desolation in the region as they have done in Iraq? We call upon all parties to respect Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. The people and the State of Iraq desperately need a breathing space for calm reflection on the best way to bring the country out of the devastating spiral of violence. We call upon the United Nations to continue its pivotal role in helping the people of Iraq to rebuild their constitutional and legislative institutions as a first step towards the rebuilding of Iraq by the Iraqis themselves. Moreover, there is an urgent humanitarian problem in Darfur — indeed, a real humanitarian tragedy that requires urgent international action to contain it. But is it inevitable that such an effort take the form of interference in the Sudan’s internal affairs and violation of its sovereignty? Can we not provide humanitarian assistance and relief to Darfur’s inhabitants without encroaching upon the Sudan’s national sovereignty? Are there enough military forces in the world to be dispatched as invaders to every area that is afflicted by a humanitarian crisis? The affairs of the Sudan, with its ethnic composition and its religious and cultural heritage, are by nature complex. It is our duty to help solve those complex and difficult problems, not to make them more so. The Sudan has signed, with the United Nations, a framework for cooperation to solve the problem in Darfur and to ensure humanitarian access to the civilians in the region. That augurs well for the early alleviation of this humanitarian tragedy, which threatens to have dire consequences for the entire region. We call upon the international community not to confine itself to criticizing one party or another and not to lay the blame on one set of policies or another. What is more important and useful is serious action to help the Sudanese people to overcome the crisis. Egypt believes that, in order to effectively face the challenges and threats to international peace and security, we must improve the working methods of the United Nations. Therefore, we have participated seriously — and will continue to do so — in the exercise of strengthening and revitalizing the United Nations and its organs. It is our hope that that exercise will be comprehensive, balanced and transparent and that it will be carried out in full respect for the mandates that established the various organs of the United Nations. In that context, we need to reaffirm the need to revitalize the role of the General Assembly and to ensure respect for and implementation of its resolutions by establishing an effective follow-up mechanism. I now turn from the wider context of United Nations reform to the most sensitive reform issue: reform and expansion of the Security Council. The sensitivity of that issue clearly stems from the Council’s increasing role in international affairs and its effect on many vital interests and on the international balances of power. Here, I should like clearly to state Egypt’s position, which is based on our membership in the Group of African States and the fact that we have the honour to coordinate the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) working group on this issue. Egypt hopes that the deliberations on this subject will result in both reform of the Council and expansion of its membership. The United Nations and the international community as a whole will not gain much if the process is limited to expanding the Council’s membership without truly improving its working methods so that it can better represent the general membership of the Organization and have greater capacity to maintain international peace and security. Egypt is fully committed to the Declaration of the 1997 Harare Summit of the Organization of African Unity (OAU), which affirmed Africa’s right to two permanent seats and three non-permanent seats on an expanded Security Council. We are also committed to the positions of the Non-Aligned Movement with regard to increasing the membership of the Council to at least 26 member States. Such an expansion could be confined to the non-permanent category should the expansion of both membership categories prove difficult. What about the composition of the Council? We call for guaranteed representation of all cultures and civilizations in an expanded Security Council on the basis of the current geographical distribution in the United Nations. We believe that the Council will not be able to effectively carry out its duties in the maintenance of international peace and security unless it is more aware of the nature and circumstances prevailing in all societies and of the cultural and 21 historical heritage on which they base and formulate their policies. Here, we must reaffirm the legitimate right of more than 1 billion Muslims and more than 300 million Arabs to be represented in the Council on an equal footing with those who represent other cultures and civilizations. In that context, I wish to recall the significant contributions made by Egypt at the regional and international levels and its central role in the African, Arab and Islamic spheres. Also noteworthy is Egypt’s role in the Middle East and among developing and emerging economies. As a founding Member of the United Nations, Egypt has made well-known contributions to the implementation of the purposes and principles of the Organization and to United Nations peacekeeping operations. Egypt also played a pivotal role in establishing the League of Arab States, the OAU, the African Union, NAM and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. In addition, I wish to recall that Egypt possesses the components of a regional Power in its comprehensive sense, be it economic, military or human. Egypt also enjoys social and political stability. Its diplomatic outreach is among the largest, and over the years it has developed strong international ties throughout the world. Egypt has in the past expressed its conviction that it is eminently qualified to assume the responsibility of a permanent seat in an expanded Security Council, on the basis of the Harare Declaration. We reiterate that the considerations to which I referred demonstrate that Egypt is clearly eligible, and has the capacity, to take on the responsibilities of membership of the Security Council, in accordance with Article 23 of the Charter. We believe that such membership could be based on a system of rotation with our African brothers, whereby we would fill the additional seats that would be allocated to our continent, in accordance with any newly established status in the Council and with the geographic distribution as would be worked out by the United Nations.My delegation congratulates you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency. We have every confidence that the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly will enjoy success under your leadership. We would also like to acknowledge the good work of your predecessor, Minister Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia, whose efforts led to a new level of enthusiasm within the General Assembly. In addition, we recognize the tireless efforts of our Secretary- General. Events of the past months impel us to ponder the importance of our Organization in the never-ending struggle to secure a peaceful and dignified future for the world. The United Nations was born to promote those values that would unite humanity — values of freedom, equality, solidarity, tolerance, respect for peoples and for nature — and thus transcend the differences of the world’s cultures. And so it is these United Nations large and small come to find, in the words of our Secretary-General, common solutions to common problems. And so it is that we the Member States must ensure that the United Nations is effective for our ends. In Belize we understand that and remain a legitimate partner in promoting principles such as peace, the right to self-determination, social justice, respect for human dignity, the rule of law, the right to development and the protection of our environment. We stand for those principles not just because of the international instruments we signed, but because they represent the best way to end poverty, illiteracy, hate and ignorance, to stop the spread of terrorism and to bring an end to inequality, oppression, and injustice. For the overwhelming majority in the United Nations, the solution to many of the world’s problems can be found in the right of every nation to achieve meaningful sustainable development. Accomplishing such goals is not easy, but neither is it impossible. Challenges to development abound — challenges that make us inherently vulnerable — and we as small States call on the international community to take into account our vulnerability so as to ensure that policies and measures relating to development correspond to our social needs. As a member of the Alliance of Small Island States, my country underscores the importance of addressing the special needs of such States through the 18 implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. An international meeting, which will conduct a full and comprehensive 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action, will be held in Mauritius in January 2005, providing an opportunity for the international community, especially the bilateral and multilateral donors, to renew their commitments to the Barbados Programme of Action. Of special importance to us all is the issue of climate change, and we must not flinch from taking effective measures to address that problem; those who seek to block effective solutions are creating conditions for insecurity that would dwarf the threats currently posed by terrorism. In that context, we remind Member States of the proposals first submitted to the General Assembly in 1999 to designate the Caribbean Sea as a “special area” within the context of sustainable development. The recent spate of hurricanes that have devastated our region — especially Grenada and Haiti — and which call for major efforts from the international community to mitigate our losses, reinforce our contention that our Caribbean Sea is as fragile as it is vulnerable and as fragile as it is valuable to our social and economic well-being, indeed to our very survival. We call upon the Assembly to support us in our just efforts to achieve the designation of the Caribbean Sea as a “special area” during this session of the General Assembly. In addition to addressing the special needs of developing countries, development policies must, above all, be people centred. Coherent policies, sustainable partnerships, sustained support and ownership are critical factors for development. That has never been as clear as in the case of Haiti. In the words of our Secretary-General, “the international community failed to develop ... sustainable partnerships with the Haitian society at all levels. The Haitian people were insufficiently involved in the development of policies that could move the country forward. ... Financial aid did not bear fruit to the extent expected because it was at times ill-targeted ...” (S/2004/300, para. 6). With the lesson thus learned, we have an opportunity to influence a positive wave of development for the people of Haiti. In Haiti, we also have a clear example of the inextricable linkage between development and security. There, threats and challenges to peace and security necessitate an integrated approach. My country hopes that the Secretary-General’s High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change will embrace that approach in its findings and recommendations. While we condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and have joined international efforts in the fight against terrorism, we are mindful that our actions for the preservation of peace and security must be consistent with international law and must be respectful of the human rights and freedoms of all peoples without discrimination, foremost among which must be the right to self-determination. For that reason, we shall remain strong proponents of the right of the Palestinian people to a secure and viable State. It is also for the same reason that we support the Taiwanese people’s right for representation before the United Nations. But what United Nations? Last year our Minister of Foreign Affairs confined his remarks to an urgent call for the United Nations to recall and enforce the principles on which it was founded, basic among which is the principle of multilateralism — the most fundamental conviction that led to its creation: that States, on the basis of sovereign equality, conjointly take decisions that secure a peaceful and prosperous world for all. Tragically, events since then have only exacerbated the problem whereby powerful States take the law into their own hands and act in total disregard of the principles of the United Nations Charter and indeed of international law. If we do not act together to reverse that evil trend, we are walking — nay, running — on the road to perdition. Yes, we support the call of India, Japan, Brazil and Germany for a permanent seat on the Security Council, if there must be permanent seats. And to this we would add the equally legitimate right of African and Arab nations to be so represented. But the reforms must go deeper. Why should any one country have a veto power? Why should millions of the wretched of the earth be left without an effective voice and be 19 powerless to change the world to a more just one? And why do we, who so effectively acted to end apartheid in South Africa, tolerate the equally opprobrious apartheid practised by the State of Israel against Palestinians in their own land, murdering and oppressing them without mercy and with impunity? The year 2004 has been declared the International Year to Commemorate the Struggle against Slavery and its Abolition. Slavery was based on an exacerbated racism; so let us honour that struggle by implementing the Final Declaration of the World Conference against Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in South Africa in 2001. Likewise we continue to support United Nations efforts to bring greater visibility to the problems of the world’s indigenous people during the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People. As the International Decade draws to a close later this year we call for a second decade to continue the work achieved during the first decade and so to carry out and complete the work that has not yet been completed. In our own community of small States, we face the most serious threat to our peoples’ security, caused by the proliferation of small arms and light weapons that claim the lives of so many of our people. These arms come from countries that must be called upon to live up to their responsibility to cooperate with us to stem the flow of these lethal weapons and to enter into legally binding agreements for the effective registration and monitoring of transfers of these weapons of widespread destruction. An international convention to achieve this must be put on our agenda urgently. Another major issue for our region is the continued attempt to isolate the sister Caribbean Republic of Cuba and to strengthen an economic embargo that has been condemned repeatedly by the overwhelming majority of this Assembly. The entire Caribbean Community is at one in its resolve to engage Cuba in a constructive and mutually beneficial partnership that brings concrete benefits to all our peoples. The Cuban Government has, by its actions, manifested its determination to fight against terrorism in all its forms and from every quarter. For us in the Caribbean, any call for “regime change” imposed from outside violates every principle upon which the United Nations Organization stands. Belize has its own cause to promote. The United Nations is well aware of the age-old and unfounded territorial claim of Guatemala, and it has clearly and unanimously called for respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Belize. We have endeavoured to negotiate a just solution to this claim for decades, and in the last four years we have been engaged in a process under the auspices of the Organization of American States (OAS), aimed at bringing this anachronistic claim to an end. Agreements have been made and broken, in the context of a Guatemala that has proclaimed its desire to find a peaceful solution to the dispute. Still no solution is in sight. The worst scenario is for the claim to linger unresolved, thus affecting the security and development of our people. We welcome the remarks of President Berger of Guatemala before this Assembly on 22 September, when he advocated a final settlement of the dispute, along with cooperation between our two countries to improve the socio-economic conditions of both our peoples. We certainly support this approach and will do our part, as we have always done, to achieve those noble goals. But cooperation does not substitute for resolution of this age-old threat to the security and prosperity of our people. We will, therefore, continue to work within the OAS to develop an agreed process that will bring finality to this matter, which will undoubtedly redound to the benefit of the peoples of both Belize and Guatemala and contribute to the peace and security of the region. In the search for bringing this longstanding dispute to an end, we place high hopes on the role of the Group of Friends that has been agreed by both parties to reach this objective, and we look forward to its greater input and support to the process. The challenges we face in the world today are not all unique to our generation. Some are the result of our refusal to learn from the mistakes of the past; others are entirely of our making. Yet, if we are to look at those values that unite us and we are determined in our desire for good, we will find that working together brings us ever closer to amore just and peaceful world.The session of the General Assembly over which you will preside, Sir, will be one of the most important in the history of the United Nations. It will be a session characterized by the necessary renewal of the United Nations. The year 2005 will be decisive for the future of multilateralism and of our global Organization. The debate on Iraq and the spreading wave of international terrorism have raised a series of questions about the future of our collective security system. At this session, the General Assembly has before it the task of beginning an unprecedented reflection on the changes our societies require of multilateral diplomacy. Our efforts must result in new tools that will enable the United Nations to find effective solutions to carry out the lofty mission of tackling anew the tasks of development, maintaining world peace and security, promoting human rights and democracy and protecting the environment — all under the rule of international law. As a result of recent debates, some have raised their voices to assert that the international community is fractured and even in conflict. It is curious that that is happening at a time in the life of the world when threats and challenges are more clearly shared by all nations. The tasks that should unite us focus on the fight against abject poverty, international terrorism, organized crime syndicates, major epidemics, the proliferation of arsenals of weapons of mass destruction and the deterioration of the environment. In order to put an end to those ills, concerted action and commitment are required from all States. The reason is obvious: the most complex threats we face do not have any specific national origin, but they affect us all and have ultimately worsened the quality of life in the world and damaged the peace and well-being of our citizens. The United Nations was designed to put an end to the scourge of wars between nations and to promote the economic and social development of peoples. We face phenomena of such magnitude and complexity that the 35 delegates who attended the San Francisco Conference — despite their outstanding talent and vision — could not have anticipated at the time. The diplomats of our generation have the obligation of envisioning a second phase, inaugurating a new chapter of collective action to eradicate these dangerous modern-day evils. In Mexico’s view, the goal to which we should aspire is not to rebuild the Organization from scratch or to discard the United Nations Charter, with its rich heritage of agreements and concepts. It would not be responsible to abandon such essential tools as legitimate individual or collective self-defence, as set out in Article 51, and the establishment of a collective security system. The only viable, rational and necessary approach is to update the multilateral system of cooperation and understanding that we have built together. It was on the basis of those considerations that President Vicente Fox of Mexico, when he addressed the General Assembly last year, made a robust appeal for comprehensive reform of the United Nations. Furthermore, in many meetings that he has held since then with other heads of State or Government, he has expressed considerable interest in moving forward — with the urgency that the situation requires — towards strengthening and revitalizing the United Nations. That is why we have undertaken an effort of active coordination aimed at reforming the United Nations and strengthening multilateralism. Mexico, together with 14 other countries, has begun an effort of joint reflection to analyse the various components of reform and to devise a diplomatic strategy to guide the steady progress of United Nations reform. We envision reform with an evolutionary approach that would enable the United Nations to tackle the most delicate challenges and threats of each historical cycle, drawing on the resources and strengths of all Member States in order to overcome the most disturbing international phenomena. That exercise should begin to bear fruit in the next 18 months. Two thousand and five will be an appropriate year to promote this ambitious project: there will be a convergence of events that will enable us to revitalize multilateral dialogue and interaction. First, in December 2004, we will receive the report and the recommendations of the Secretary-General’s High- level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, which will be of valuable assistance in guiding our deliberations on reform of the system. It will be very important that we examine those recommendations in minute detail and that the General Assembly be the central forum for discussing and adopting the new mandates and changes that must be implemented in the Organization. Likewise, next year we will have to assess the progress made in implementing the Millennium Declaration and the steps taken to follow up the Monterrey Consensus on financing for development. That series of events in 2005 will give us an up- to-date view of the state of the multilateral system and of the issues that reform should address. With that broad perspective, and so that we can live up to the commitment and interest of all Member States, we will need to ensure a balance between the security and development agendas and their respective institutions within the system. The General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council must work as part of an organic whole, not as entities that are disconnected and sometimes even at odds in their tasks, priorities and working methods. The predominance of the Security Council has resulted in growing disregard for the work of other principal organs and has diminished their effectiveness. This causes certain issues to be marginalized; then, when they reach crisis level, they become matters for which the Security Council becomes responsible. We also must acknowledge that the overall process of United Nations reform has been dominated — in fact, paralysed — by the debate on restructuring the Security Council. Mexico believes that any Security Council reform process should be governed by a set of common objectives and criteria. After more than a decade of work, we should ask ourselves why Security Council reform has not succeeded. The debate has focused on the number of seats, how they should be allocated to each region and whether or not they should be permanent seats. Mexico does not share that approach because, paradoxically, the fundamental question that has largely been ignored — which came to the fore during the critical discussion on Iraq — is not how many members there should be on the Security Council and how many should be permanent; rather, it is what kind of collective security system does the international community need today, and what 36 mechanisms should be used to face new challenges and, above all, to prevent conflicts. The Security Council must create conditions that will prevent the emergence of conflicts, particularly through building and consolidating national institutions and upholding the rule of law and respect for human rights. The Council should also enhance its capacity to consistently identify situations likely to endanger peace and security. As a logical outcome of such an analysis, we can then identify the changes needed in the Security Council. Mexico acknowledges the contributions of Member States to the cause of peace, all of them necessary. Our Organization, based on the legal equality of States, requires the commitment and support of all its Members, through their involvement in decision-making. The creation of new permanent seats would lead to greater concentration of the international decision-making process than is now the case. We cannot ignore the fact that permanent members of the Council already have more influence than the rest of the membership. Mexico considers that this should be restricted and not further increased. Mexico supports collective decision-making as the source of the legitimacy and effectiveness of our actions in favour of peace and security. In that regard, we favour a regionally equitable and balanced enlargement of the number of elected members, based on modalities determined within the regional groups. That would stimulate wider participation in the decision-making process and would ensure that more countries, not fewer, can contribute their views in the Council. Thus, Mexico would support an increase in the number of elected members and an extension of their term of office, with the option of immediate re-election for those States that have demonstrated, through their performance, a strong commitment to the purposes of the Organization. That would help us to create a genuine mechanism for accountability, founded on Article 24 of the Charter. As part of this integral vision of reform, it is crucial also to strengthen the role of the Economic and Social Council, which supports the Security Council and the General Assembly in the decision-making process. Conflict prevention depends upon timely attention to and action on problems that lead to a lack of access to development. It is undeniable that peace and security are anchored on the well-being of our peoples. Therefore, we believe that the Economic and Social Council should work as a coordinating body to steer the financing of development and to articulate the follow-up of commitments stemming from United Nations summits and conferences on social and economic development. It is essential to have a more committed involvement of the international financial institutions in the development process. In that regard, the Economic and Social Council should play a pivotal role linking the Bretton Woods institutions, the World Trade Organization (WTO), the private sector and civil society. Another issue that is worth our attention in the reform process is the Commission on Human Rights, which has essential responsibilities regarding universal respect for individual rights and fundamental freedoms. Mexico considers that the work of the Commission is vital, although its procedural weakness in advancing its objectives is clear. For this reason, its methods must be urgently reformulated. Mexico is fostering regional dialogue on this issue. The ongoing effort in favour of United Nations reform requires a vision of collective well-being and enhanced political understanding, in order to prevent “threats without a passport” from plunging the world into a spiral of confrontation, violence and despair. Here, we should recognize that the United Nations has already taken some first steps in the right direction, particularly in the fight against terrorism and the non- proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. As part of the reform, it will be necessary to carry these actions further. In this context, Mexico is ready to continue working with the institutional structures of the Organization, particularly the Counter-Terrorism Committee and the non-proliferation machinery. We will continue to promote the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the fight against terrorism as the only way to guarantee the legitimacy and efficacy of that fight. My country will also follow closely the cooperation initiatives and regimes geared to control the export of nuclear materials; and we will stress the need to strengthen efforts in the urgent cause of disarmament. Other positive steps have been taken in recent years to confront the grave challenges resulting from 37 humanitarian crises and genocide. In this context, Mexico concurs with the concept of the responsibility to protect, in the sense that sovereignty entails a State’s obligation towards its population, and that, when it fails to fulfil it, the international community has the duty to collectively assist in the protection of individuals from serious human rights violations. In the light of recent regrettable humanitarian tragedies, it is of the utmost importance for the General Assembly to discuss this concept thoroughly, in order to elaborate guidelines for its practical application within the Organization. Bearing in mind the scope of the reform challenge facing us, Mexico would favour the convening of a general conference with the aim of updating and strengthening our Organization. In contrast to the consideration that has been given to other issues of international relevance, such as trade, population and the environment, we have not held any open-ended rounds of negotiations in the last six decades on issues pertaining to international politics and the progressive development of diplomacy. The changes that have taken place in the world in that period demand a comprehensive exercise that should encompass the renewal of our commitments, review of collective security structures and their performance, above all, promotion of economic development. Throughout President Fox’s administration, Mexico has clearly shown its commitment to the strengthening of multilateralism. We have done so as an elected member of the Security Council, as a promoter of international conventions on topics such as corruption, persons with disabilities and migrants, by furthering initiatives to foster the equitable and sustainable development of global areas and by hosting high-level conferences such as the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development and the Summit of the Americas. Furthermore, as an unequivocal sign of our interest, our concerns and our commitment, Mexico is decisively promoting the revitalization of the multilateral system through the Group of Friends for the Reform of the United Nations. It is in that constructive spirit that Mexico is taking part in this session of the General Assembly. We are certain that under your able leadership, Mr. President, this session will be remembered as the catalyst for one of the most important and dominant chapters in the life of our Organization.At the outset, I would like to express my great and profound satisfaction for the recent release of four hostages kidnapped in Iraq, among them a young woman whose mother is a San Marino national engaged in humanitarian activities for the Iraqi civilian population. On behalf of the Government of San Marino I wish wholeheartedly to thank the Government of Italy, which played an active role in the release, as well as all of those who made that release possible. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of San Marino I wish to congratulate Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Gabon, on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I also wish to thank the outgoing President, Mr. Julian Hunte, for the total commitment and determination he showed in his work. United Nations activities have thus far been crucial in reducing conflicts between States. However, although the number of international conflicts has decreased, mankind is still facing new threats, which can only be tackled multilaterally. So that it can continue to serve the international community, the United Nations should be given more effective tools to enhance mediation and peaceful settlement of disputes, preventive control, verification, planning and use of sanctions, in order to prevent the outbreak of warfare and to promote disarmament and arms control. Moreover, the United Nations must receive adequate support so that it can better meet the growing number of requests for peacekeeping operations in various regions of the world. In that context, we appreciate the results obtained so far, but the process requires a stronger will on behalf of our Governments to comply with international rules and implement a concrete and effective cooperation regime. In line with relevant international standards, San Marino has recently passed a special law to combat terrorism and associated crimes. It is also actively cooperating with the two United Nations anti-terrorism committees established pursuant to Security Council resolutions 1267 (1999) and 1373 (2001). Since the tragic 11 September attacks on the United States of America, the international community has become aware of the seriousness of the threat of terrorism. Recurrent dramatic events worldwide, the violent attacks perpetrated in Iraq — not only against soldiers but also civilians, the media and, most recently, even volunteers of non-governmental organization humanitarian missions — force our countries to realize the full scope of this phenomenon and its proliferation, and the need to search for a 5 common and effective response based on a stronger joint commitment. The horrifying terrorist act carried out in Ossetia against hundreds of innocents and so many children demonstrates that the widespread strategy of fear, hatred and devastation is humanly and ethically unacceptable. San Marino once again condemns any form of terrorism, the most serious and impending threat to peace, for which there can be neither explanation nor justification. We support the search for constructive solutions that promote dialogue and mutual understanding among peoples of different cultures and religions with a view to the dissemination of an increasingly shared culture of peace and cooperation that will help to reject violence and oppression. The Government of San Marino avails itself of this opportunity to express its special thanks to the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, who contributed to the establishment of an Iraqi interim Government, and renews its support to Prime Minister Allawi for the forthcoming democratic elections scheduled for January 2005. The elections will surely be a milestone for the Iraqi people in the exercise of their sovereignty. We trust that the international community will help to achieve national reconciliation in Iraq, on the basis of Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) of 8 June, with regard to independence, security and legality. Despite the tragic attack on its headquarters in Baghdad last year, the United Nations can continue to play a key role in Iraq, especially at a time when the situation has become extremely complex and delicate, particularly from a human and political point of view. Another major source of concern and disappointment for San Marino is the persistence of the Middle East crisis, which remains unsolved despite the efforts made by the United Nations to encourage dialogue and indispensable mediation. To achieve the ultimate goal of legitimate, peaceful and safe coexistence of two States, Israel and Palestine, the political process outlined in the road map and supported by the international community still appears to be the only viable solution. Therefore, on behalf of the San Marino Government, I reiterate, as I recently expressed to both the Foreign Ministers of Israel and Palestine, our sincere hope that such a process will soon resume. With regard to the reform of the Security Council, the position of the Republic of San Marino is well known. We favour an increase in the number of non-permanent members, in the most appropriate way, and of the gradual restriction of the right of veto, with a view to its eventual elimination. Indeed, the increase of the number of permanent seats and the extension of the right of veto would entail, in our view, a greater injustice through the perpetuation of privileges, the consolidation of discrimination within United Nations Member States, and it would limit the power of the General Assembly to elect the most suitable candidates in accordance with differing historical periods. The Government of San Marino fully endorses General Assembly resolution 58/316, adopted on 1 July 2004, relating to the revitalization of the work of the Assembly itself. Similarly, we are satisfied with resolution 58/314, adopted on the same day, granting the Holy See wider and more incisive prerogatives as an Observer. The safeguarding of human rights and fundamental freedoms, together with full respect for freedom, equality and democracy, have always been essential elements in the history of San Marino, and represent the very basis of its 1,700-year existence. These issues continue to regulate relations with other States and with international organizations. It is in this spirit that I express my best wishes once again to Ms. Louise Arbour, the recently appointed United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. San Marino firmly believes in the role of the International Criminal Court (ICC) and has recently supported the draft ICC/United Nations relationship agreement and the setting up of an ICC liaison office in New York. My country remains strongly committed to the campaign for the universal abolition of the death penalty, and it has recently ratified the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on the abolition of the death penalty. The recent signature and ratification by San Marino of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women has been followed by a law granting full gender equality in the transmission of San Marino citizenship to children. Moreover, the Government has subsequently established for the first time in history a Ministry for Equal Opportunity. 6 As 2004 is the International Year of the Family, we hope that as many countries as possible will follow San Marino in signing the two Optional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which are on the involvement of children in armed conflict; and on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. In addition, San Marino recently ratified the 1993 Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoption, thus starting a wide debate domestically on joint parental custody in case of parental separation. Equal attention is being paid by my country to the most disadvantaged members of our families and societies and to the issue of the increasing ageing of the population, observed especially in developed countries. Against this background, our Government has been working to strengthen existing support infrastructures and assistance to families. We sincerely hope soon to reach an agreement on the final text of an international convention on the promotion and protection of the rights and dignity of disabled people. The President took the Chair. San Marino also wishes to underline the relevance of the objectives set forth in the Monterrey Consensus, especially considering that 14 million people, including 6 million children, are still dying of starvation. One billion people have no access to potable water, and 3 billion human beings do not receive adequate medical care. Yet, poverty eradication cannot be implemented without respect for the ecosystem. In this regard, a valuable instrument to develop and protect our environment is, in our opinion, the Convention to Combat Desertification, recently ratified by San Marino, along with a view to actively participate in the International Decade for Action, “Water for Life”, 2005-2015. In accordance with the objectives of health for all, San Marino recently ratified the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and reiterates its support to the implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, with the awareness that the spreading of new epidemics requires stronger international cooperation. On this important occasion, year after year meeting and exchanging views as representatives of our respective Governments, we express deeper and deeper concern and frustration vis-à-vis the many threats severely affecting humankind and possibly jeopardizing our common future. Yet, the ideals and principles we reaffirmed in the Millennium Declaration are still the highest benchmark to guide our efforts, both within our own States and within the work of the United Nations. We need to instil hope and actualize our universal aspirations to peace, cooperation and development. To this end, let me express my best and warmest wishes to you, Mr. President, to the Secretary-General, to all United Nations officials and to all our countries.It is a pleasure for me, on behalf of the people and the Government of Haiti and on my own behalf, to express to you, Sir, my heartfelt congratulations on your election on 10 June to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth regular session. The outstanding qualities that have won you this distinction undoubtedly constitute a guarantee that our work will progress well. I am convinced that advances will be made in the search for viable and lasting solutions to the different problems confronting the international community. I also wish to express our gratitude to Minister Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia, whose far- sightedness and sense of balance gave decisive weight to his initiatives to give new dynamics to the work of the General Assembly during the last session. I also want to pay tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to reiterate to him, on behalf of the Haitian people, our deepest 9 appreciation for the constant interest that he has shown in Haiti. This is also an opportunity for me to express to you, Mr. President, and to the United Nations family my deepest thanks for the expressions of sympathy towards — and solidarity with — the Haitian people, once again struck by terrible floods on 18 and 19 September 2004. Since 1945, our Organization has given proof of its capacity for survival and renewal. Nonetheless, the recent course of events in certain parts of the world is of constant concern. The imposing of terror as a form of political expression is completely unacceptable. In this regard, Haiti endorses the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. The spiral of violence, which tragically affects civilian populations here and elsewhere, is an attack on human dignity and on the culture of peace that the United Nations embodies. The United Nations must necessarily play its role in the forefront, in accordance with the United Nations Charter, in the settlement of disputes that threaten international peace and security. The Republic of Haiti wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the ideals and to the principles of universality of our Organization and to the objectives of peace and development to be attained through international cooperation. While the Republic of Haiti celebrates, this year, the bicentenary of its independence, it has had to request the solidarity of the United Nations to help in the stabilization of the situation in the country, following the events of 29 February 2004. The Haitian people express their appreciation to the Security Council, which, at my request, gave the international community the mandate to help Haiti in the process of political transition by virtue of Security Council resolutions 1529 (2004) and 1542 (2004). Seven months after the major political events that took place in Haiti, I have come here to bear witness to the hopes that democratic renewal is inspiring in the Haitian population. I am also here to say, on behalf of the Haitian people and their Government, that the Republic of Haiti has never felt as close to the principles and the objectives of the United Nations, which, at the height of our distress, showed its interest in a future of freedom, democracy and collective well- being in Haiti. On 29 February 2004, in accordance with the principles of the Haitian Constitution and in my capacity as Chief Justice of our Supreme Court, I took my oath as interim President of the Republic. Fifteen days later, a Government of transition was established, with the participation of the political and social forces of the country. The transition over which I am presiding is designed to be inclusive. The democratic process has begun. Political parties are forming, and others are reorganizing themselves. A constant and fruitful dialogue has begun between the authorities of the State, the political class and civil society organizations in the country. In that same spirit, a mutually satisfactory agreement was reached on 18 September between the Government authorities and the representatives of the demobilized military. This thus spared the nation a bloodbath and a pointless fratricidal struggle. I pledged, before the Haitian nation, to put an end to the political transition that dated back some 20 years. May this transition put an end to the transition. General elections will be organized in 2005. The Government resolutely supports this process, and, on 7 February 2006, I must and will hand power over to a democratically elected President. I thank those States that made the deployment of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) possible, particularly those that have made or will make contingents available to the mission. I invite MINUSTAH to work more closely with the Haitian authorities for genuine disarmament in the country. It is not admissible that armed groups commit their misdeeds with impunity, without being the least disturbed by the presence of MINUSTAH. The Haitian national police is steadily strengthening. The transitional Government counts on international cooperation to make that strengthening not only quantitative, but qualitative, in terms of training and equipment. Without the active and sustained support of the international community, the objectives of the transitional Government might not be achieved. That failure would mean a return to anarchy and chaos in Haiti and would be a grave setback to the United Nations. However, Haiti has a fresh look. All freedoms are guaranteed, international commitments are respected and justice again prevails. Unfortunately, the Government of Haiti and its intentions were recently questioned, following a verdict in which no member of the executive branch had any role whatsoever, and that, 10 in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic. The necessary reform of the Haitian judicial system is clearly an imperative. But it is fundamentally unjust to blame the present Government of brazen interference in judiciary proceedings or to systematically bleed magistrates and the civil servants in charge of establishing the law. The Government of Haiti is extremely sensitive to the comments and remarks of its friends and partners with whom it is cooperating in all fields of political, economic and social governance; but it refuses to be associated with or connected to decisions that involve only one organ of the State, which acted completely independently, even if those decisions might raise certain questions. What must not be forgotten is that I am still President of the Court of Appeals, provisionally exercising the function of President of the Republic. Therefore, I cannot tolerate any arbitrary action, nor can I tolerate any interference of the political authority in the judiciary system. Justice must be independent. Guaranteeing security, promoting freedom and human dignity, promoting economic growth and social development, preparing the provisional electoral council for the holding of honest, credible and clean elections — those are the objectives that the Government of Haiti intends to achieve through its programme of action, within the current climate of exceptional difficulties. For that reason, I make a solemn appeal from this rostrum to the international community, to friendly countries, to the specialized agencies of the United Nations system, and to all of those for whom solidarity is not just word that special attention, beyond symbolic gestures, be given to the Republic of Haiti so that a substantial and well-directed cooperative effort may help mobilize the necessary resources, with a view to immediate and long-term action, and may promote the return of sustained growth in Haiti following years of stagnation. The people of Haiti are starting anew, and it is natural that at this time they should turn to the United Nations. Based upon the values and objectives that we share, Haiti seeks the understanding of its natural partners so that it can at last break the infernal cycle of violence and isolation in which it has lived for too long.On behalf of my delegation, the people of Uganda, and on my own behalf, I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Jean Ping, from the sister African Republic of Gabon, upon your election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I have every confidence in your stewardship in steering the session to a successful conclusion. I thank the Secretary-General for his excellent leadership, especially during these trying times for the United Nations. I note with satisfaction that, after a year in which the centrality of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security has come under serious challenge, there seems to be a return to the more widely accepted multilateral approach to resolving global challenges. Terrorism continues to be one of the biggest threats to international peace and security. Since 11 September 2001, thousands of innocent people, including women and children, have been killed or maimed as a result of indiscriminate terrorist acts. This year, the world has witnessed many innocent civilians massacred in cold blood, hostages beheaded in the most barbaric manner, children mutilated by suicide bombers and terrorist groups, very often in the name of extremist and misguided causes and ideologies. Whether it is the recent appalling attack on school children in the Russian town of Beslan, or the massacre of civilians in Balonyo in northern Uganda, the intention of terrorists is the same: to undermine and divide our societies, overthrow elected Governments, and to strike at the heart of international peace and stability. The Uganda delegation condemns those terrorist acts in the strongest terms. We do not accept that any cause, however genuine, warrants the indiscriminate destruction of human life or property. In Uganda, we have been fighting against a terrorist organization known as the Lord’s Resistance Army, based in southern Sudan. That organization has killed, maimed and abducted tens of thousands of Ugandan children in the northern part of Uganda. The acts of plunder and destruction by those criminals have laid to waste entire villages and driven helpless villagers into camps for internally displaced persons. The Government of Uganda is sparing no effort, with the cooperation of the Government of Sudan, to end that situation and restore peace and stability in this area. We are confident that soon the remnants of those terrorists will have been eliminated or captured. Despite amnesty legislation and a standing offer of pardon by our President, very few have responded. However, recently some improvement in reporting has been observed. Uganda welcomes the recent restoration of sovereignty to the Iraqi people. We call upon the United Nations, in particular, and the international community as a whole, to do everything possible to assist the interim Government in the rehabilitation of Iraq and re-establishment of the physical and political infrastructure to allow the holding of scheduled elections in that country. The conflict between Israel and Palestine, often driven by rigid positions, continues to pose a serious threat to peace and stability in the Middle East. Uganda supports the Quartet-led road map for a comprehensive peaceful settlement in the Middle East. We support the establishment of a Palestinian State existing side-by- side and in peace with Israel within secure and recognized borders, in accordance with relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions. After more than 50 years of violence and bloodshed, both the Israelis and Palestinians must rethink their positions. New, creative approaches to a comprehensive peace should therefore be sought for the sake of their peoples. Every year we adopt resolutions which remain mere paper. Resolutions are not solutions in themselves; it is high time we engaged constructively in the serious search for a solution, for the future of humanity and the Middle East. Turning to the Great Lakes region, we note with satisfaction the positive developments with regard to the peace processes in various conflict situations. In 31 Burundi, the transitional Government has been consolidated with almost all the fighting groups subscribing to the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement for Burundi. We call upon the groups still remaining outside the peace settlement to cease their military operations and join the peace process. We congratulate the African peace mission for its contribution to the peace process and we welcome the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers to Burundi. Election dates may change, but the elections must be held sooner or later. Elections, a new Government and good proposals relating to the question of representation — all must work for peace for Burundi. It is therefore important that the international community extend the necessary assistance for the consolidation of peace, stability, rehabilitation and development of Burundi. Uganda remains committed to supporting the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). We urge all parties in the Government of National Unity in Kinshasa to remain committed to the Pretoria Peace Agreement and to resist any temptation to resume hostilities. We also call upon the Security Council to strengthen the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) under Chapter VII of the Charter to consolidate its peacekeeping operations. A robust MONUC force would be critical for the enforcement of Security Council resolution 1493 (2003) on the arms embargo against militias, as well as the disarmament, demobilization, rehabilitation, resettlement and reintegration of all armed rebel groups and militias operating on the territory of the DRC. That would also serve to reduce, and hopefully to eliminate, inter-ethnic clashes in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo and help to reassure neighbouring countries about cross-border security. It may also be important to include other legitimate groups in the Government of National Unity and Transition in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in order to enhance peace. We believe that before democratic elections are held it is important to create a consensus for peace and security. Uganda believes that as a result of the positive achievements in the peace processes in Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo there is an urgent need to convene the international conference on the Great Lakes region under the auspices of the United Nations and the African Union. The conference, which is scheduled to take place in Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, in November 2004, will bring together a core group of the Great Lakes countries and the neighbouring countries affected by the conflicts or those that, by infection, contribute to them. In order to consolidate the peace efforts, we hope that the Great Lakes regional conference will involve all stakeholders in the development of a strategic plan of action on the key issues, including regional peace and security, development, post-conflict reconstruction and regional integration in the context of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). I am glad to note that countries of the Great Lakes region, including Uganda, have already embarked on a preparatory process for the conference involving youth and women’s groups, non-governmental organizations and local government officials from all border districts. We believe that this inclusive process will ensure national ownership and commitment to the implementation of the recommendations of the conference. The delegation of Uganda welcomes the peace accords recently signed in Nairobi between the Government of Sudan and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement and Liberation Army (SPLM/A). We hope that those accords will lead to the end of the long-running conflict, which has caused untold suffering to the people of the southern Sudan and led to insecurity in neighbouring countries — particularly my own, Uganda. With the return of peace and stability in the southern Sudan, we are confident that we will be able to bring to an end the Lord’s Resistance Army attacks against our people in the northern part of Uganda. My country is an active participant in the Intergovernmental Authority on Development initiative that has brought the various factions in Somalia together to the negotiating table to end the conflict in that country. We note with great satisfaction the progress that has so far been made, and we salute the people of Somalia for coming together to establish a Parliament embracing all groups. In 2005 the United Nations will observe the fifth anniversary of the Millennium Summit, where we pledged our political will and commitment to a number of Millennium Development Goals, including the reduction of poverty by 50 per cent by 2015. It is, therefore, of great concern that in many parts of Africa poverty levels are rising as per capita incomes continue to decline and that infant and maternal mortality rates are on the increase, while official development assistance commitments remain unfulfilled. 32 In order to make progress in meeting the Millennium Development Goals and ensuring the equitable sharing of the benefits of globalization, the General Assembly should focus on the following, inter alia: effective follow-up to and implementation of the various plans of action, declarations and strategies relating to the Monterrey Consensus on financing for development, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation on sustainable development, the Brussels Declaration and Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries and the Almaty Programme of Action on landlocked developing countries; restructuring of the global trading system, especially in agriculture, mode 4 trade in services and increasing value-added export products from the developing countries; mobilization of adequate resources to fight malaria, tuberculosis and the HIV/AIDS pandemic, covering prevention, care and research and development to ensure the provision of cheaper and more effective drugs and possibly the discovery of an HIV/AIDS vaccine; strengthening of South-South cooperation, including measures by the more advanced developing countries to open their markets to products from the least developed countries; and stronger international support for NEPAD, which reflects Africa’s priorities to address development, governance and the security challenges facing the continent. Critical support areas will include market access, measures to encourage increased foreign direct investment in African countries, higher levels of official development assistance for infrastructure and human resources development, ensuring sustainable debt levels, regional integration, enhancement of the African Union’s capacity to deal with conflict situations and implementation of the African Peer Review Mechanism. As the United Nations approaches its sixtieth birthday in 2005, the need for revitalization of the General Assembly and restructuring of the Security Council has never been greater. The need for reform of the United Nations is imperative if we want to enhance the role of the Organization and the effectiveness of multilateralism to address emerging hard threats such as terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and genocide, as well as other challenges, such as persistent poverty and HIV/AIDS. It is therefore fitting that the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change will be discussed in 2005. With regard to reform of the Security Council, the restructuring should reflect the need for democratization and ensuring a balanced and equitable geographical representation. We believe that Africa should be allocated no less than two permanent and five non-permanent seats in the expanded Security Council. In summary, Uganda is calling for stronger collective action against international terrorism and support for the post-conflict rehabilitation and development programme in northern Uganda. We have noted the positive developments in the Great Lakes region and stressed the importance of convening the international conference on the Great Lakes region in Dar es Salaam in November 2004. We have highlighted the significance of 2005 — as the both the sixtieth birthday of the United Nations and the fifth anniversary of the Millennium Summit — as a key time to focus on meeting the Millennium Development Goals and the revitalization and restructuring of the United Nations to enhance the role of the Organization and to ensure the effectiveness of collective multilateral action.Two years ago I had the great satisfaction of personally witnessing, in this very Hall, Switzerland’s entry into the United Nations. I will never forget the whole- hearted welcome that Switzerland received on that occasion. Switzerland’s accession to the United Nations took place at a time when the fight against terrorism dominated international debate and divergences in opinion on how to proceed with respect to Iraq were widening. Dissension arose once again within the Security Council. That experience showed that any action taken in the absence of a mandate that is clearly defined in a Security Council resolution is doomed to failure. Such actions can only result in differences of opinion that reduce the effectiveness of the international community’s efforts and jeopardize international security. When all is said and done, however, the Iraq crisis has made clear that the international community remains committed to a multilateral system for maintaining international peace and security, but that the structures currently in place are no longer appropriate. There is now, therefore, a clear need for reform and for strengthening the means of joint action. The High-Level Panel appointed by the Secretary-General to make recommendations for ensuring effective joint action is a first step on the road to reform. Switzerland actively supports that initiative. Thus, this past spring, we invited a group of experts to discuss the subject of the right of self- defence, and in that context, the role of the Security Council. Their conclusion was that it is neither necessary nor desirable to extend or reinterpret the right of individual self-defence set out in the Charter. What we must do is strengthen joint action; that is the issue on which we must focus. In this context, prevention is essential. On the one hand, we must ensure improved living conditions throughout the world; on the other, multilateral institutions must respond more rapidly to nascent crises. 17 A more rapid response does not necessarily mean military intervention. Switzerland has always held the view that force must remain an instrument of last resort. Apart from situations of self-defence, force may be used only with the approval of the Security Council and when other methods of persuasion or pressure have been exhausted. A more rapid response also means that the Security Council must fully exercise its primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security, which is conferred upon it by the Charter. This raises the issue of the legitimacy of action of the Security Council and, in particular, the question of its composition. After more than 10 years of deliberation on that issue, it is time we found a solution. The composition of the Security Council must better reflect the changes that have taken place in the international context since its creation, and developing countries must have a greater role to play. Greater account must be taken of the financial and material contributions of specific Member States. On the other hand, Switzerland is opposed to the creation of new seats with the right of veto, because the right of veto in its current form is undemocratic and hampers the capacity of the Security Council to act. In the interests of greater legitimacy, those countries that are not members of the Security Council should have more opportunity to participate in the decision-making process. In particular, it is important to strengthen mechanisms for consultation with countries directly involved in situations of tension. Reforming institutions may be an arduous and unrewarding task, but it is indispensable for increasing the efficiency of the United Nations and for promoting peace. I would like to thank the Secretary-General for the work that he has already done and encourage him to continue along the same path. Over and above institutional aspects, the commitment of Member States is critical if the United Nations is to be effective. First of all, if it is to remain credible, the United Nations and its Member States must be the unassailable guarantors of international law and, in particular, international humanitarian law. I would like to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for having emphasized today the absolute primacy of the rule of law — a source a strength for the weak. Switzerland will continue to insist that respect for the rule of law is the only practical way forward. In the absence of a political solution to the conflict in Darfur, for example, civilians have become the victims of attacks that constitute a serious violation of international humanitarian law — a violation which must be punished by the appropriate national and, if necessary, international, bodies. For that reason, too, following the adoption of resolution ES-10/15 on the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice — which found that the construction of the separation barrier in the occupied Palestinian territory by Israel is contrary to international law — Switzerland accepts, in its capacity as depositary of the Geneva Conventions, the mandate to conduct consultations on ways and means for the parties concerned to achieve greater respect for international humanitarian law. If it is to be strong, the United Nations must be able to rely on those States with the necessary resources to help it carry out its tasks. All of those countries, including my own, are called upon to provide the personnel and materials needed by peacekeeping missions. The appalling attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad underscores the need to give special consideration to the security of the United Nations and its staff. Fortunately, additional security measures are now in place. Other measures must follow. It is our shared duty to ensure that the Secretary-General has the necessary financial resources at his disposal. As I said earlier, prevention will depend on the fight against poverty. In autumn next year, we plan to gather together to undertake the first assessment of the state of progress on the Millennium Development Goals. We must already admit that our efforts have been inadequate. Of course, every country has its budgetary constraints. But we also have a duty to keep the promises we made at the dawn of the millennium. President Lula da Silva made this point earlier, forcefully and with commitment. He recalled our responsibility to history — which we endorse — to eliminate poverty while we have the means to do so. In that context, I welcome the fact that trade liberalization within the framework of the Doha Round regained some momentum this summer in Geneva. Difficult negotiations still lie ahead of us — negotiations that must seek to meet expectations that are sometimes contradictory. Switzerland intends to play a constructive role, and I call on all our partners to 18 commit themselves to ensure the early success of the development round. Prevention will require us to both detect and defuse today the problems of tomorrow. I believe that our efforts to promote peace must be rapidly fleshed out in two areas. The first of these is conflict that is borne of religion. Killing is unacceptable, and it is especially so if it is carried out for religious reasons. Yet increasingly frequently, religion is becoming the only frame of reference for analysing political and social problems. Such an extreme simplification of reality runs the risk of heightening tension. The international community must find a solution, and the United Nations is the ideal forum in which to do so. The second area is environmental preservation. The increasing scarcity of resources is sowing the seeds of conflict over appropriation and distribution. Sustainable development must not be allowed to become an empty concept. Our actions to date within the context of the United Nations have not been sufficient to enable us to fulfil our responsibilities towards future generations. Devoting more time to seeking agreement on the Kyoto Protocol than the founding fathers took to draft the Charter of the United Nations is beneath our dignity. The United Nations will be judged by its success in meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century. The institutional reforms now under way are a step in the right direction. It is up to us, the Member States, resolutely to commit ourselves to promote peace and to make the United Nations the instrument for carrying out that essential task.At the outset I would like to express to Member States my deepest gratitude — that of the Government and people of Gabon — for the great honour and the confidence shown in Gabon and in Africa through the election of one of its sons to the lofty post of President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We have long been familiar, Mr. President, with your diplomatic skills and your personal dedication to the cause of the United Nations system, and we have full confidence that you will successfully discharge your duties. I wish to reiterate to your predecessor my sincere congratulations on the work he accomplished during his mandate. To the Secretary-General, I wish to reaffirm my confidence and the support of my country in the pursuit of your action heading the United Nations. Four years ago, we unanimously adopted the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2). With renewed energy and will, we have undertaken to achieve a number of its goals by the year 2015: in particular, to reduce poverty and hunger, to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, and to establish a global partnership for development. Achieving these goals will clearly require a strong political impetus on our part. That is why I hail the initiative of convening a United Nations summit dedicated, inter alia, to the implementation of the Millennium Goals, and scheduled for 2005 in New York. The major disparities which come to light daily between the rich and the poor countries evoke serious concern. We cannot reconcile ourselves to the despair which would result from failure. The African States, for their part, reject such an inevitability; they are becoming involved in the prevention and resolution of the conflicts undermining their continent, are settling into good governance and are making efforts to implement the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). At the same time, the international community, the Group of Eight countries and the specialized institutions of the United Nations system, including the Bretton Woods institutions, have a moral obligation to translate into concrete action their commitments to support Africa’s development. That development naturally hinges on the maintenance of international peace and security throughout the African continent. Our determination in that respect is unequivocal. Such is the case in Côte d’Ivoire, where the peace process was relaunched at the Accra summit in July 2004. The same holds true for the decision of the African Union to play an active role in the resolution of the crises in Darfur, Burundi, Liberia, Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The support provided by the United Nations in those countries and the role played by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, must be commended. Moreover, we welcome the prospects for a more effective contribution by the United Nations in the process of the reconstruction of Iraq and support for the political transition under way there. It is indeed vital for regional stability and for peace that Iraq once again become a normally functioning State with stable institutions. In the lengthy conflict between the State of Israel ad the Palestinian people, the restoration of lasting peace will be possible only at the negotiating table. It also depends on the reactivation of the road map. In this case, as in many others, such as the war on international terrorism, United Nations action must be more effective. The decisions of the Security Council will then be decisive in the settlement of such conflicts. Given the numerous crisis situations throughout the world, the role of the Security Council in the maintenance of international peace and security has continued to grow. Its field of action, in terms of its decisions, has gradually expanded, and the human, material and financial resources required for their implementation have increased. To cope with these situations, a significant number of States must participate in its action. That requires an expansion of the membership of the Security Council, in both categories — permanent and non-permanent. 16 Need I recall that in 1977, from this very rostrum, I drew the Organization’s attention to the need to provide a seat for Africa in the Security Council. It is indeed paradoxical that Africa is still not counted among the permanent members, even though the bulk of the Council’s decisions directly involve Africa. We therefore must adapt the Security Council to the changing realities of our world. Its reform must be given high priority at this session. Beyond that, our efforts at reform must have as their ultimate objective the strengthening of the action of the entire United Nations system in the areas identified during the Millennium Summit in 2000. Striving to achieve these shared goals, Africa is increasingly shouldering its share of responsibility. Shared and intensive solidarity on the part of countries with greater resources is more than ever required. What is at stake today is the survival of millions of individuals throughout the world. Poverty — one of the root causes of political, economic and social instability, which are sources of armed conflict — must be eradicated. Therefore, we must implement, here and now, the commitment we have undertaken to change the course of our shared history. Let us together nurture the hope of a better destiny — the hope that we can think and act in a different manner, in order to provide present and future generations with genuine reasons for hope.Allow me, first of all, to congratulate you, Sir, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Gabon, on your election as the President of the General Assembly and to wish you every success in this important position. I would also like to extend our appreciation to Mr. Julian Hunte for the excellent organization of the previous session. The serious challenges to global stability and sustainable development that the international community faces vindicate the urgent need to further develop the legal and institutional foundations of multilateral cooperation. There is no doubt that the central role in coordinating these efforts belongs to the United Nations. It is important, today as never before, to define the direction of the dynamic adaptation of the United Nations to current realities, based on the Organization’s unique experience of over half a century, and to find adequate responses to the pressing issues of the contemporary world. Developments in the Central Asian region provide a vivid demonstration of the intermingling of the contradictory processes that are unfolding around the globe. The aspirations of the peoples of Central Asia to fully integrate into the world community, to create conditions for sustainable stability and economic development are facing serious challenges. The region is faced with a combination of transnational threats, namely terrorism, extremism and drug trafficking. Similar patterns can be observed in other regions of the world as well. Not a single day passes without terrorist acts taking place somewhere in the world. It is obvious and undeniable that international terrorism has challenged the civilized world. It makes no exceptions and does not distinguish between places, nationalities, religions or social systems. It sows death and devastation in both affluent and developing nations. We need to admit that international terrorism, which is capable of quickly transforming and adapting to the changing circumstances of the contemporary world, is trying to impose its terms and conditions and keep entire regions in fear. From the outset, Uzbekistan has firmly and vigorously supported the efforts of the anti-terrorist coalition aimed at eradicating transnational threats. The political leadership of Uzbekistan is deeply committed to the fight against this plague of the twenty-first century and calls for a consolidation of the international community’s efforts in this area. However, effectively fighting international terrorism requires, above all, combating its ideological sources. It is vital to oppose the ideology of extremism and fanaticism and to outlaw militant radical religious groups that nurture international terrorism. At the same time, Uzbekistan strongly opposes any kind of allegations or assertions linking international terrorism with the ever-growing religion of Islam, which has made an immense contribution to the history of humanity. Uzbekistan, home of the greatest thinkers and philosophers of the East, is adamantly pursuing an all-out support of traditional, enlightened Islam. Only by promoting and encouraging ideas of an enlightened and tolerant Islam can we effectively withstand militant, politicized extremist factions and avert further confrontations in the world. Uzbekistan holds that, in reviewing the urgent issues of global security, the regional agenda should be given priority. Only by means of secure and stable regions can we gradually move towards global security. The establishment of a nuclear-weapons-free zone in Central Asia remains one of the priorities of our foreign policy. We again call upon the permanent members of the Security Council to develop — in cooperation with the States of the region — a consolidated position on the provisions of the treaty and its protocol. We trust that the establishment of this nuclear-weapons-free zone would become an important element of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime. Many issues of regional development are directly linked to the processes taking place in Afghanistan. We believe that Afghanistan is historically and geographically a part of Central Asia. Uzbekistan has been giving all possible assistance to the Afghan people for the social and economic reconstruction of the country and its harmonious integration into regional structures. The Government of Uzbekistan, in cooperation with United Nations agencies, has set up and is successfully implementing a delivery mechanism for international humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan via Uzbekistan. To date, over 2.5 million tons of such cargo has passed through our territory. In addition, we are doing all we can to reduce transit costs and improve the service infrastructure. In light of the continuous threat of narcotics proliferation from Afghanistan, Central Asia, on the 24 frontline of combating narco-aggression, is facing the problem of effectively countering this global menace. We look forward to the international community’s firm and continuous support of Uzbekistan’s initiative to establish a Central Asian regional information and coordination centre to combat transborder crime related to illegal drug trafficking. The United Nations has been present in Uzbekistan for over a decade. During this period, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has carried out numerous important projects aimed at strengthening the country’s potential in implementing reforms, protecting the environment and creating sustainable sources of income. We truly appreciate this. In this regard, we look forward to assistance from UNDP and other United Nations agencies in implementing Uzbekistan’s initiative to establish a Central Asian common market. This would contribute not only to creating a large and robust regional market and attracting more foreign investment and modern technologies, but also to properly addressing the social and environmental problems of Central Asia, including its sustainable development and economic prosperity. Overcoming the transportation and communication isolation of the region is another top priority. In that context, I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the multilateral initiative to establish a trans-Afghan transport corridor, which would link Central Asia with the Persian Gulf. The implementation of that project would significantly expand trade and economic relations and fundamentally improve the region’s economic prospects. We agree with the view of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, that the present juncture is of crucial importance for the United Nations. There is no other multilateral forum similar to the United Nations, in which countries that differ from one another in terms of cultural and historical heritage, economic potential and geographic location can work together as equal partners. In the context of the current, increasingly complex globalization processes, the strengthening of the Security Council is of paramount significance. Uzbekistan supports the enlargement of the Security Council in both categories of membership, taking into account the political and economic capabilities of countries, geographical representation and other criteria. We reiterate our support for the inclusion of Germany and Japan in the Security Council as permanent members. In conclusion, I should like once again to underscore the fact that Uzbekistan is confident that the United Nations will retain its role as the main pillar of the international security and cooperation architecture. We believe that the invaluable potential of the United Nations, which withstood all the upheavals of the previous century, will long serve the cause of consolidating our efforts in the face of global challenges.Mr. President, on behalf of the people and the Government of the Republic of Mozambique, I would like to congratulate you upon your election as President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. We are delighted to see a distinguished son of Africa in the stewardship of the highest organ of the United Nations, which shows the confidence the world places on your experience, wisdom and proven skills. Let me also pay a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, Minister for External Affairs, International Trade and Civil Aviation of Saint Lucia, for successfully having presided over one of the most productive sessions of the General Assembly. I wish to commend the Secretary-General for his continued devotion to the fundamental ideals of our Organization, stressing the importance of multilateralism, with a view to addressing the global challenges before us, such as to eradicate poverty, hunger, pandemic diseases and illiteracy and to bring about development, peace and stability. I speak before this Assembly at a time when Mozambique is preparing to conduct its third multi- party general elections, to be held on 1 and 2 December 2004. Having had the privilege of leading my country through many challenges, moving from war to peace, from destruction to reconstruction, from economic decline to economic growth and development, I felt I should allow other elected sons and daughters of Mozambique the opportunity to take up the noble task of conducting the affairs of the nation, leading to further gains. This is therefore my very last attendance of a session of the General Assembly in my capacity as Head of State and Government. After the elections, I will join civil society and continue to make my humble contribution to the efforts on the prevailing challenges still facing Mozambique, Africa and the world, particularly in the areas of peace and the promotion of cultural, social and economic development. 5 I have been attending sessions of the General Assembly since 1975, first in my capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs and then as President of Mozambique. I cherish every moment I have spent here at the United Nations, as part of the global efforts to collectively find solutions to the problems around the world. It has been, indeed, quite a rewarding experience as, through our common resolve, we have been able to successfully advance the decolonization process in Africa and elsewhere, while engaging in the struggle for peace and stability, poverty eradication and development. As I depart, allow me to share some reflections on the role played by our universal Organization, the United Nations. Reaffirming the inalienable right of all peoples to self-determination and independence, in accordance with the principles and objectives set forth in the Charter of the United Nations and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), Mozambique attained its independence from colonial rule in 1975. Since then, the country has been actively involved in the United Nations, has progressively improved its relations with the Organization and its related bodies and has received strong, multidisciplinary support. Since then, 60 territories worldwide have become decolonized, and millions of people today are able to exercise their right to self-determination. It was on 16 September 1975 that, for the first time, I had the privilege of addressing the General Assembly from this rostrum. I was then the Foreign Minister of my country, and I was expressing the gratitude of the people and the Government of Mozambique for our admission as a Member of the United Nations. When Mozambique was admitted, the United Nations was composed of 144 Member States, compared to 191 in 2004. That shows the extent of the growth of our Organization. In Africa, countries such as Angola, Zimbabwe, Namibia, South Africa and Western Sahara were not yet independent or were under apartheid domination. On other continents, the situation was very similar. The cold war was at its peak and the arms race was a dominant feature of international politics. The focus of the Non-Aligned Movement was on advocating the interests of the developing countries, on raising international awareness of the dangers and risks of a nuclear confrontation and on the struggle for the establishment of a new international economic order. In those days of high political tensions, international dialogue was characterized by confrontation and intolerance. Today, international dialogue is more one of consultation and the search for consensus. The constructive dialogue existing among Africa and the Group of Eight, the European Union, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the South American Common Market (MERCOSUR) and other regional groupings are good examples of the prevailing new international political mood. Throughout this process, the United Nations has played an important role. Soon after its independence, my country had to face the economic and social consequences stemming from its decision to close its border with Southern Rhodesia, in compliance with a United Nations resolution that imposed sanctions on that neighbouring Territory. It was a costly measure, but because it achieved its aim of ending the illegal regime in that Territory, we feel proud to have taken that action. During that period, Mozambique enjoyed important support from the United Nations, particularly in the areas of health, education, rural development, advocacy and emergency assistance for the victims of war and natural disasters. Following many years of a destabilizing war, the Government and the Mozambique National Resistance (RENAMO), the former guerrilla group, signed the General Peace Agreement on 4 October 1992. Soon after the signing of the Agreement, the Security Council approved the establishment of the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ) to monitor and verify its implementation. We deeply appreciate the resolute and decisive involvement of the United Nations in the peace process, with the mobilization of human, material and financial resources. That strong support from the international community, combined with our peopleís will and determination to achieve peace, led to what many regard as the first example of a successful United Nations peacekeeping mission in Africa. During the last 12 years of peace, our country has benefited from considerable support from the United Nations and its various specialized bodies for reconstruction and development activities. That support has been critical for economic growth and the gradual improvement of the peopleís living conditions. 6 In 2000, unprecedented floods devastated Mozambique. Those floods affected the central and southern parts of the country, causing heavy losses of human lives and infrastructure. Again, the response of the United Nations and the international community to the disaster was commendable. We take this opportunity to reiterate our gratitude to both the United Nations and the international community in general for their unconditional support, without which the losses could have been heavier. As a result of sound economic and social policies and an enabling political environment, we have been able to record encouraging progress. The absolute poverty rate decreased from 69.5 per cent in 1997 to 54.1 per cent in 2003. From 1997 to 2003, real average gross domestic product growth was 8 per cent. We wish to recognize the critical role played by our development partners in assisting our country as it embarked on its steady progress. Their continued assistance will be critical to ensuring the sustainability and the irreversibility of the political, economic and social gains made so far. The HIV/AIDS pandemic in Mozambique is a growing threat to sustainable development. Together with malaria, tuberculosis and cholera, it is jeopardizing decades of economic and social development. Without an aggressive response by the year 2020, 20 per cent of the agricultural labour force in Mozambique will be lost to HIV/AIDS, and it is estimated that life expectancy will drop to 36 years by 2010. Within the framework of the African Union and its programmatic vision, the New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD), Africa has been making important strides towards its renaissance and the ownership of its destiny. In that endeavour, we have witnessed a further strengthening of democracy on the continent. Moreover, Africa has been increasingly discharging its responsibility with regard to the maintenance of peace and stability on the continent. Today we are building self-confidence around Africa and creating the necessary conditions for sustainable development. Through NEPAD we are raising the ownership spirit surrounding African leaders to bring about significant changes in Africaís development. The recognition that success can only be achieved through partnership among all stakeholders is a step forward in the establishment of public-private partnerships, regional integration and cooperation among different regions in Africa. We would like to commend the decision of the Secretary-General to appoint an advisory panel on international support for NEPAD. During the last few years, we have witnessed global action towards the materialization of the Millennium Development Goals around the world. In that endeavour, we have registered mixed results with encouraging developments on one side and visible setbacks on the other. We have seen a strong determination by developing countries to achieve the Goals through relevant domestic actions and policies. However, despite such a clear commitment to improvement of the living conditions of our respective peoples, our goals may not be realized, due mainly to an unfavourable international environment, including insufficient flows of official development assistance and foreign direct investment. Consequently, we are failing in the creation of the necessary conditions for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. We will not be able to achieve the 3 per cent economic growth worldwide that is required for reducing poverty by half by 2015, while sub-Saharan Africa records a disappointing level of economic growth. The flow of financial resources for the most needed regions is decreasing. Market access remains a challenge for both developing and developed countries. Pandemic diseases, in particular HIV/AIDS, are aggressively eroding the productive capacity of developing countries. We therefore need concerted global action to effectively address those challenges. The meeting of world leaders for action against hunger and poverty held at the United Nations yesterday was an encouraging renewal of the commitment of the international community to make the Millennium Development Goals a reality. The final declaration that was adopted should be the guide to our collective action against hunger and poverty. The success of the ongoing reforms should be measured against an effective improvement of global governance and the strengthening of multilateralism, with the General Assembly assuming a central role in the conduct of global issues. The United Nations 7 should pursue a multilateral approach that truly reflects the current realities of the world, rather than entrench an anachronism inherited from the end of the Second World War. I urge you to continue the process of reform of our Organization, in order to have a Security Council that is democratic, representative, equitable and transparent. I urge you to continue with the agenda for economic and social development. I feel honoured for having shared experiences with Your Excellencies. I will keep and cherish memories of the long and difficult, but gratifying moments that we have spent together, building consensus around vital issues for our Organization and, indeed, for our world. They were precious moments of learning and of individual and collective enrichment. I express my profound gratitude to the United Nations family for all the support they have given to me and to my country. I plead for the continuation of that solidarity to Mozambique, with the aim of eradicating poverty, hunger and endemic diseases. I leave you with a sense of having fulfilled my duty and given my humble contribution to the cause of liberation, peace and development of Mozambique, Africa and the world as a whole. The goal of complete decolonization has not yet been fulfilled, as the fate of 16 Non-Self-Governing Territories has yet to be determined. We continue to look for the day when the agenda of the General Assembly will contemplate neither colonies nor Non- Self-Governing Territories. I look forward to a successful fifty-ninth session, one in which we will focus on the priority actions for the present year and for the years ahead. Whatever we do, we must be able to give real hope to our nations and peoples ó hope not just to live, but also to live well and safely; hope not only to continue to be free, but to be free in decency and dignity.I should like at the outset to express my sincere gratitude for the honour to speak from this rostrum and to convey, on behalf of the President of Turkmenistan, Mr. Saparmurat Niyazov, best wishes for peace and prosperity to the peoples of all nations. I should also like to congratulate the President of the General Assembly on his election to that lofty and responsible post and to wish him every success in fruitfully guiding the work of the fifty-ninth session. The events taking place in the world today, which are influencing the development of every region and every country, attest to the dramatic changes that have occurred in the meaning of the historical process under new conditions. Our ability to elaborate and implement qualitatively new approaches to interaction within the community of nations will largely determine the degree to which security and stability are maintained throughout the world. In that context, an immutable principle and basic direction for Turkmenistan’s foreign policy remains the strengthening and development of close cooperation with the United 5 Nations. I should like to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his constant support for the peace-loving foreign policy of Turkmenistan. We should note that among the priority areas of our country’s cooperation with the United Nations are maintaining international peace and security and preventing or resolving conflicts through political means and processes. With regard to those issues, Turkmenistan has often become a centre where, under the aegis of the United Nations and with the participation of its Special Representatives, effective negotiations have been carried out to resolve complex situations that have taken place in the countries of our region. During the present general debate, it has been noted several times that one of today’s major threats to international security and stability is terrorism. Following the events of 11 September 2001, Turkmenistan was one of the first countries to support the United Nations initiative of establishing an international coalition to fight terrorism, in which we have taken an active part. In that context, Turkmenistan not only firmly condemns any act of terrorism in any part of the world, but also is undertaking specific legislative and practical measures aimed at fighting that evil and preventing it from spreading. That is particularly relevant, given that the security conditions of the world community are determined by each country’s actual contribution to the strengthening of its own internal stability, together with cooperation at the collective level. This is why we believe that there is a need today to draw up a qualitatively new dimension, both between individual States and within the framework of their joint activity in international organizations. Despite the fact that terrorism is multifaceted, its nature is one and the same, and at its roots lie a doctrinaire egoism which has been raised by its followers to the highest level of evil, intolerance and cruelty. Terrorism recognizes no State and no nationality; it is not affiliated with any religion or culture. This is why the war on terrorism and terrorists must be conducted through joint efforts. It is precisely through the close coordination of actions of members of the international community, on the basis of norms of international law, that the establishment of a situation in the world can be conducted in such a way that any manifestation of terrorism will be punished and, as a result, it will be possible to take effective measures to combat it. Here, Turkmenistan favours effective implementation of a broad-ranging system of measures to combat terrorism, including active cooperation in finding and bringing to justice the organizers and perpetrators of terrorist acts. To counteract international terrorism, and to protect the rights and freedoms of our citizens, we must be able to forestall each of its manifestations and counter it, not only through universal unanimous condemnation, but also through a high degree of professionalism of law enforcement agencies, and also through the active use of the entire international legal array of instruments drawn up within the framework of the United Nations. Further involvement of the role of the United Nations is becoming clearer against the backdrop of the present development of both global and regional processes that require the concentration of collective efforts and the adoption of decisions, taking into account a multitude of interests. Here, the fundamental principles of international cooperation enshrined in the Charter and the criteria tested by time concerning maintaining the balance of interests are a high priority for us. By following such a policy, Turkmenistan always attempts fully to utilize the potential of the community of nations and institutions in proposing and implementing foreign policy initiatives. We see vast potential in the close partnership with the United Nations and its specialized structures in implementing joint programmes and projects. In this context, we would like to express our gratitude for cooperation extended to us by such United Nations specialized agencies as the United Nations Development Programme, UNICEF, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the United Nations Population Fund. Through interaction with these agencies, the Government of Turkmenistan is implementing a number of major projects that are yielding specific results in the social sphere, health care, education, the environment, combating illicit drug trafficking and a number of other areas. Turkmenistan will continue to maintain close ties with these United Nations agencies in the quest for and implementation of new possibilities for cooperation. 6 A clear example of the strategic partnership of Turkmenistan with the United Nations was the signing of our country’s Government in February of 2004 of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework to promote development for 2005-2009. A significant feature of this document is the fact that it fully coincides with the national priorities and interests of Turkmenistan, as defined by the National Development Strategy of our country for the period until 2020. It aims at resolving global objectives within the framework of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. One of the important components of Turkmenistan’s policy is the human dimension. Our country is conducting joint work with international organizations in this area. During the years of independence, we have worked to create genuine guarantees for the implementation of personal, political, economic, social and other rights of citizens. The personal rights of citizens have been specifically reflected in Turkmenistan’s laws and law enforcement practice concerning such matters as the abolition of the death penalty, the banning of searches on citizens and the banning of the adoption of ad hoc decisions in pressing criminal charges. Through practical action, Turkmenistan reaffirms the implementation of these legal acts. Every year in our country, by presidential decree, there is a widespread amnesty, the next to take place in just a month. As a result, more than 9,000 people will be amnestied. Today in Turkmenistan there are no restrictions whatsoever on travel of its citizens abroad. There is guaranteed freedom of registration and activity of religious organizations and groups, in accordance with universally recognized international law, regardless of the number of adherents or of their faith. A number of very important legislative acts were adopted regarding these issues, in accordance with which, at the present time in Turkmenistan, there are various religious faiths registered and functioning. As for the human dimension, Turkmenistan has intensified its work with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). On our invitation, in March 2004, Turkmenistan was visited by a group of experts from the OHCHR, who, together with the Turkmen side, drew up specific areas for cooperation and rendered assistance in work on the further development of this human dimension, among which was methodological and legal assistance in the preparation of national reports on United Nations conventions in the field of human rights. We intend to continue our efforts regarding these issues and are ready to cooperate with all of the United Nations agencies and other international organizations. Against the backdrop of such effective interaction, we are concerned that in 2003 the General Assembly’s Third Committee considered a draft resolution regarding human rights in Turkmenistan. The proposal was made by representatives of several countries without having visited Turkmenistan, without having studied the situation on the ground, without taking into account the significant initiatives of the Government of Turkmenistan in this sphere and without having first acquainted the Turkmen side with its contents. Such attempts at a one-sided consideration of serious questions is, in our view, unacceptable, and it is not in keeping with constructive cooperation in this sphere. The adoption of hasty decisions does not make a positive contribution to constructive dialogue. This is extremely important, particularly in the light of the principle of mutual respect for States, one of the dominating principles in the system of values professed by the United Nations. At the crossroads of the twentieth and twenty- first centuries, our region, Central Asia, has moved into the forefront of the international community’s attention. How multilateral dialogue will take place on problems of this region to a great extent will determine the prospects for peace and security on a global scale. Aware of its full responsibility to the international community, Turkmenistan attaches utmost importance to the role of the United Nations in stepping up regional and interregional dialogue in seeking solutions to potential problems. In this regard, I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the initiative of the President of Turkmenistan regarding the creation of a Central Asian regional consultative council of heads of State. The issue here is about the creation of an inter- State body at the highest level for holding regular consultations and working out joint decisions on relevant issues that directly affect the fate of the countries of the region and the real needs of the people that inhabit those regions. These are, first of all, issues 7 of cooperation in trade and the economy, energy supply, border trade, transportation and humanitarian issues. In our view, this mechanism for multilateral consultations at the head-of-State level would promote the development and implementation of agreed actions by parties on the basis of mutual interest and would allow for creation of the most effective system of rational interaction. In October 2003, in Ashkhabad, the first round of a forum on conflict prevention and sustainable development for Central Asia took place under the aegis of the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). In the context of strengthening the effectiveness of instruments of preventive diplomacy, we believe it to be useful and advisable to create a United Nations centre on preventive diplomacy in the Central Asian region. Turkmenistan is ready to provide full assistance towards locating it in our nation’s capital. An important stage in intensifying regional cooperation was the preparation of the trans-Afghan — or Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan — gas pipeline project. Turkmenistan welcomes the interest of large companies and financial and industrial groups in that major project. Here, I would like to note that the United Nations, using its broad international authority, could have worked out a system of political and legal guarantees to ensure conditions favourable to the project. It is important to recall that in the past Turkmenistan proposed, from this rostrum, an initiative to formulate and adopt under the aegis of the United Nations an international convention on a regime governing the functioning of inter-State pipelines, and associated guarantees. We believe that such a document would make it possible to create a dependable political and legal mechanism to ensure the transportation of raw materials to world markets. On the question of implementing a secure development strategy and enhancing cooperation in the region, I would like to underscore issues of international cooperation regarding the Caspian Sea. These relate first and foremost to the exploration of the Caspian Sea’s richest fields of hydrocarbon resources and are linked not only to the interests of the countries of the region but to those of many other States and transnational companies. Our policy is aimed at merging those interests. It is a well-known fact that the oil and natural gas reserves of the Caspian Sea are the planet’s most important energy resources for the twenty-first century. Their reasonable and effective exploration and the construction of pipeline infrastructure to transport them to world markets would ensure significant economic growth in many States and the well-being of their peoples. Effective economic activity on the Caspian Sea is closely linked to ensuring stability in the Caspian region. Turkmenistan favours making the Caspian Sea a zone of peace, stability and sustainable international cooperation. We share the view that, in the twenty-first century, the United Nations system needs rational reform. We favour such United Nations reform, but only in terms of strengthening and broadening the Organization’s role in the world. In this context, an important issue is ensuring maximum representation of States in the United Nations, in the broader community of nations, in the specialized agencies and in the United Nations system in general. In addition, the United Nations should make full use of the potential and advantages of Member States. For example, Turkmenistan is ready to provide United Nations agencies with resources to expand their presence in the region by opening headquarters and other major offices of United Nations agencies in our capital. The diversity and complexity of the tasks facing the States Members of the United Nations is self- evident. Carrying them out requires not only collective efforts but also unambiguous awareness of the individual role and responsibility of each country of the international community. Turkmenistan adheres to that logic of political behaviour, with the objective of strengthening peace and promoting economic, social and cultural development.I congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the high office of President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly and assure you of Sri Lanka’s fullest support and cooperation as you undertake the onerous responsibility of presiding over the deliberations of the Assembly. I also thank the outgoing President, The Honourable Julian Hunte, for his able and efficient conduct of the fifty-eighth session. The International Day of Peace we celebrate today is indeed a significant event in the United Nations calendar. It is a day dedicated to the creation and pursuit of a culture of peace. As I speak today in this Hall of peace, men, women and children in my country are celebrating the Day of Peace through a wide variety of civil society events. Prayers and meditations, the resonating chimes of bells and the gentle glow of candlelight are powerful symbols of our deep collective yearning for peace. We recognize that the pursuit of peace requires more than symbols. It requires consistent commitment, patience, perseverance and, above all, resolute action and consensus-building. Peace and the resolution of conflict through dialogue take centre stage in the world today and hence need to be accorded the highest priority on the United Nations agenda. All of us here are only too aware that peace is not the simple absence of war; it entails an active engagement to understand and address the root causes that endanger peace and generate conflict. In Sri Lanka, my Government has for 10 years implemented a series of programmes to engage the armed group that has been engaged in armed conflict in comprehensive peace negotiations. We face the challenges posed by an armed group using terror and suicide bombs in pursuit of its demand for a separate State. My Government has adopted the policy that all conflicts have deep-rooted and real causes, and that we must sift those causes from the acts of violence and terror and find the means to redress them. We believe that a lasting solution to conflict lies along the path of power-sharing between the centre and the regions where people of different communities live. We believe that this path can be found only through negotiations and dialogue. We abhor violence and war. We believe in life and in the celebration of all that is human and decent. We believe that the moral justification of the State and of all human institutions, such as the United Nations, is the protection and the safeguard of life. In numerous elections, my Government has requested and received mandates from our people to end the conflict through a negotiated settlement. We are committed to achieving peace, a peace founded on democracy, respect for human rights, a pluralist polity and good governance. We are fully aware that peace is not achieved easily. It is a constant struggle for mutual 22 understanding and reconciliation and the establishment of the rule of law, justice and equality. The Buddha, popularly known as the Prince of Peace, preached at length about peace and all that is required to achieve it, both within each individual and among nations. I quote from the Dhammapada: “Victory breeds hatred. The defeated live in pain. Happily the peaceful live, giving up victory and defeat”. We are deeply saddened at the violence, instability, loss of life and human suffering in Iraq. We in Sri Lanka know, and have experienced first-hand, the impact of violence on society and the difficulty in finding solutions to problems of governance that satisfy all parties. As the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Iraq recently pointed out, security measures alone will not suffice to end violence and create stability and peace. Political consensus-building, reconciliation, rehabilitation and the promotion of the rule of law are essential for democracy to take root. Equally important in today’s interdependent, increasingly globalized world is the commitment of the international community to remain engaged and to ensure that Iraq does not become further plagued by violence and fragmented along ethnic or religious lines. None of us, as leaders and, above all, as mothers and fathers, can ever forget the sheer brutality of the terrorist attack earlier this month on a school in Beslan, in the Russian Federation, which led to the loss of so many lives of children and adults. Terrorism in all its manifestations must be condemned and fought relentlessly and globally. While no cause justifies unleashing terror upon the innocent, such outrages must make us redouble our efforts to address their root causes and seek political and socio-economic explanations and solutions to them. My Government is firmly committed to the global endeavour to fight terrorism. We have signed and ratified the United Nations conventions aimed at combating that menace, and we continue to contribute to the process by chairing the Ad Hoc Committee on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism. We hope that at this session of the General Assembly, substantial progress can be made on the draft comprehensive convention on international terrorism and the draft convention on nuclear terrorism. Sri Lanka believes in the United Nations and its potential to be the principal forum where the voice of the poor, the defenceless and the weak is also heard, as much as the voice of the rich and powerful. In that regard, we applaud the words today of Secretary- General Kofi Annan, who made a passionate appeal for upholding the rule of law, without discrimination, throughout the world. We congratulate him on the courageous leadership he gives to our world body. It gives us confidence and hope at this moment of human history when we question our collective ability to lead humanity towards peace and prosperity. We also recognize the need for reform to render the United Nations more responsive to the needs and aspirations of all its Member States. We look forward to the recommendations to be presented at this session of the General Assembly by the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, appointed by the Secretary-General. There is general agreement that the Security Council, as now constituted, does not reflect current geo-political realities. We share the concern over the lack of progress on the question of equitable regional representation and on an increase in the membership of the Security Council in both the permanent and non- permanent categories. For many years, the developing countries have consistently urged that the composition of the Security Council be broadened to accommodate the basic principles of democratic representation, including representation of the developing countries. In that context, we observe that Asia, the most populous continent and home to expanding economic powerhouses of the world, is grossly underrepresented in the present Council. We take note that four countries — Brazil, Germany, India and Japan — will announce their participation in a compact under which they will collectively support their respective candidatures for permanent status in an expanded Security Council. Sri Lanka supports their candidatures, as they comply with the objective criteria applicable to the expansion of the permanent membership of the Security Council. Sri Lanka would also wish to see a consensus emerge on the permanent representation of Africa in the Security Council. Africa must be included in a final determination on the future composition of the Security Council. It is also hoped that the Open-Ended Working Group will continue to exert efforts to resolve all outstanding issues expeditiously. 23 We propose that the General Assembly, representing all Member States of the United Nations, should play a larger and more active role as a deliberative and decision-making body. At the dawn of the new millennium, four years ago, we forged a consensus to pursue a vision of an inclusive globalization process that provides benefits to the widest possible segments of society. Setting aside the commonplace clichés about globalization, we agreed on a number of goals to be implemented within specific time frames. My Government’s economic and social development programmes were planned and put into action 10 years ago. We have now made the necessary changes to align our plans more closely with the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. The Sri Lankan Government’s strategy for development seeks a constructive partnership between a strong and accountable private sector, including foreign investors, and a robust and responsive public sector. The major thrust of our vision is to eliminate poverty, reduce inequalities and enhance the standard of living among the various sectors of our population, thus providing equal opportunities for all. On the subject of social progress, I must commend the United Nations for its continued commitment and perseverance in promoting and protecting children’s rights. Apart from guaranteeing the rights of every child to education and good health services, Sri Lanka believes that children must be protected from abuse of all types — sexual, alcohol, drugs and tobacco. We have adopted measures to combat those evils. Children in some of our countries suffer from the ignominious practice of being used as child soldiers. In Sri Lanka, we are addressing the problem of child conscription by the armed group, by seeking to engage that group in the process of negotiations and by supporting the activities spear-headed by UNICEF and by civil society organizations. Our economic strategy is market driven but geared to achieve human development and prosperity at the grass roots level. We have crafted a policy and launched programmes to channel development efforts and resources to domestic capacity-builders at the village level who are the pillars of our national economy. The majority of our population live in the rural areas and depend on agriculture for their livelihood. Promotion of small- and medium-scale enterprises is therefore vital to sustain development. Sri Lanka draws strength from the recognition the United Nations has granted to small and medium industrialists in the developing world by declaring 2005 as the Year for Micro-Credit. We witness with concern the emergence of a contrived association of certain religious beliefs with some groups of fanatics. Extremism, violence and terrorism are the complete antithesis of the ethical and spiritual foundation of all religious philosophies and practices. We should work resolutely to prevent those aberrations from becoming irreversible trends. On the other hand, we are disturbed to witness religious symbols being defamed or abused for commercial purposes. Whether the symbols belong to the Christian, Buddhist, Hindu, Islamic, Jewish or any other faith, such abuse should be condemned and prohibited. The recent phenomenon of Buddhist symbols being used for commercial purposes, thus causing pain of mind to Buddhists all over the world is a case in point. Fortunately, most of those organizations have agreed to refrain from such abuse in the future. Sri Lanka, together with other like-minded States, has brought the situation to the attention of UNESCO and other relevant intergovernmental bodies. We propose that the United Nations call upon those responsible to pay due respect to religious symbols and practices. That would be a fitting contribution by the United Nations to its own initiative on a dialogue among civilizations. This year Sri Lanka will begin events to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of our membership of the United Nations that falls next year in 2005. On that occasion, we will renew our commitment to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. We expect the Organization to provide leadership in the task of creating a world where understanding and harmony prevail, along with economic, scientific and technological advancement. My commitment — and that of my Government and the people of Sri Lanka — to the United Nations remains undiminished. Our hope is that all Member States will cooperate fully with the United Nations to realize the Goals of the Millennium Declaration. Finally, I would like to say that our noble words, unless translated quickly into palpable deeds, will remain no more than a silent testimonial to our 24 collective unwillingness or incapacity to transform the lives of our peoples when they cry out for attention and redress. If all that the United Nations can do for them is to churn out, periodically, ritual phrases and hollow invocations to duty and responsibility, their frustration will swell and spread globally, challenging peace and stability. That must not happen. Let us leave this session of the General Assembly not only with renewed commitment to the ideals of the Organization, but with renewed vigour to address our awesome responsibilities for alleviating the plight of the poor, the hungry, the disadvantaged and the oppressed.On behalf of the delegation of Bhutan, allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to your important post. I assure you of my delegation’s support and cooperation as you guide the work of this important body for the year. We are confident that, with your vast experience and able leadership, our deliberations will be productive. May I commend Mr. Julian R. Hunte for his stewardship and contribution to the work of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. The task before the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly is daunting, given the array of issues and challenges facing the international community. Among them is the issue of reform of the United Nations. In that regard, the General Assembly’s resolutions on the revitalization of its work and the reform initiatives in other organs and agencies are timely and welcome, as they will serve to ensure the United Nations continued relevance and effectiveness in a rapidly changing world. My delegation looks forward to the recommendations of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change set up by the Secretary-General to examine the current challenges to peace and security. Much of the ongoing debate on United Nations reforms has justifiably centred on the reform of the Security Council as the organ charged with the 9 maintenance of international peace and security. In a world torn by old and new conflicts, the Security Council must evolve in order to remain effective and to enjoy the confidence of all member States. Its composition must change to reflect the wider membership of the United Nations and the new geopolitical and economic realities of the present-day world. Bhutan supports the call for an expanded Security Council through increased membership of both the permanent and non-permanent categories. Among others, Bhutan strongly believes that India and Japan, in view of the important roles they play in international affairs, are pre-eminently qualified for permanent membership in an expanded Council. The toll of innocent human beings falling prey to terrorism continues to mount by the day. Gruesome acts of terrorism in different regions of the world, including the recent brutal killing of schoolchildren in Beslan and the cold-blooded murder of Nepalese and other innocent people in Iraq and elsewhere, have raised the level of horror to new heights. We strongly condemn those senseless killings. Even my country has not been spared the scourge. Having exhausted all peaceful means to prevail upon the heavily armed foreign militant groups from north-eastern India to leave our territory, the Royal Government was compelled to use force to remove them in mid- December 2003. Most recently, two people were killed and 27 injured by a bomb blast in a marketplace in a border town in southern Bhutan. There is an urgent need to take concerted action to fight terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Every nation gathered here, by having signed the Charter of the United Nations, ascribes to the universal code that the methods which terrorists employ to achieve their aims, especially the targeting and killing of innocent civilians, cannot be justified. Conflicts and crisis situations continue to disrupt the political stability, security and socio-economic well-being of millions around the world. Many such conflicts are fuelled by conditions of poverty and underdevelopment. Recognizing that interrelationship, the international community has taken numerous initiatives in recent years. Several major conferences have been convened, including the Millennium Summit, that have provided a comprehensive set of time-bound targets to be achieved in order to secure a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. However, those targets remain distant for many and the gap between the rich and the poor is getting wider among and within nations. The Global Monitoring Report 2004 of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund indicates that economic growth in many developing countries remains below the level considered necessary to reach the Millennium Development Goals. If the Goals are to be achieved by the target date, the report states, all parties urgently need to do much more. The Monterrey Consensus reinforced the objectives of the Millennium Development Goals and emphasized the roles of all parties involved in the process of financing for development. While developing countries have to accelerate reforms, developed countries must provide more aid, foreign direct investment, debt relief and more open access to their markets. It is against that background that my delegation welcomes the 2005 high-level plenary meeting to review the integrated follow-up and implementation of the outcomes of the United Nations conferences and summits. My delegation hopes that the review will lead to further concrete action by all stakeholders. Furthermore, as a landlocked, least developed country, my delegation hopes to see the issues and challenges identified in the Almaty and Brussels Programmes of Action receive the highest priority during the review. May I mention that the Royal Government of Bhutan, under the leadership of His Majesty the King and guided by the development philosophy of gross national happiness, has been making concerted efforts to ensure the all-round development of the country and to realize the agreed goals of the various international conferences, in particular the Millennium Summit. I am pleased to report that, with the continued support of our development partners, Bhutan is hopeful of achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. In that regard, I take this opportunity to express the deep appreciation of the Royal Government and people of Bhutan to the United Nations and other donors for their contributions to the development of my country. As I conclude my statement, I would like to pay tribute to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his strong leadership and relentless efforts to advance the cause of peace, development and security. We will continue to benefit from his vision and leadership for the next two years. As he leaves his post at the end of 2006, our work to find a suitable replacement to lead the United Nations has to begin soon and in earnest. 10 My delegation believes that, in keeping with the principle of equitable geographical representation, and in consideration of Asia’s being the most populous continent with the largest regional grouping of 55 members in the United Nations, a Secretary-General from Asia would be both timely and appropriate.It is my pleasure and honour to represent my country today at the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Let me begin by expressing my deep appreciation for Mr. Julian Hunte, for the leadership and vision with which he conducted the last session, and by congratulating Mr. Jean Ping on his assumption of the presidency of this session. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my Governmentís deep gratitude to the Secretary-General for his leadership, for his strong commitment and hard work to make the United Nations a more responsive and efficient body. The Government of Georgia reaffirms its strong support for the important work carried out around the world by this great institution and to all who serve it. The beginning of the new millennium marks a great opportunity for the global community of nations that make up the United Nations - a community whose collective responsibility is to help strengthen those institutions that promote and protect the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, so that we can more effectively tackle the challenges and the issues facing the world today and so that together we can enhance our shared ability to promote peace, alleviate suffering, expand liberty and advance human development with renewed wisdom and courage. The belief that we must be able to adapt to great change while remaining faithful to a set of core ideas and values is one that has special resonance in Georgia today, for few countries have witnessed greater transformation in the past year ó and fewer still have done so with a clearer sense of purpose. In some respects, Georgia's revolution has made our small nation - willingly or unwillingly - a test case for the modern challenges of democratic transition and perhaps for a revised formula for international relations in our increasingly interconnected and complex world. Nearly a year has passed since our dramatic Rose Revolution graced the cover of newspapers and television broadcasts around the world. This revolution had at its core one simple demand: the creation of a stable, equitable and functional democracy. It gives me great pride, Mr. President, to inform you that we have accomplished that demand in ways that few abroad or at home ever imagined possible. And I am enormously proud of my people, whose courage, unity and steadfast belief in a better future made our revolution and transformation possible. It is because of the Georgian people that our experiment in democracy is a 12 success, and because of their sacrifice and determination that we have achieved such impressive results today. In less than a year, we have proven the depth and breadth of our commitment to democracy successfully by holding three sets of elections - presidential, parliamentary and regional - which were recognized by all observers as free and fair expressions of the public will. We have proven that we can take care of people such as the teachers of my country, who just a few days ago received as much as 12 years in back pay from our Government. I was recently told by a local governor of how one such teacher - who had not been paid since our independence - had just received her payment for all of those years. For all of those years, that brave woman, who sacrificed her health and her livelihood for the education of younger generations while surviving on the meagre income from a small plot of land, watched as our corrupt officials - at her expense and that of her compatriots - were creating their own wealth, constructing huge mansions and filling their Swiss bank accounts. Finally she got her money back. She also watched the corrupt officials chased away from power and held accountable under our legislation. Never again will loyal public servants have to harvest food from their gardens to make ends meet. Never again will they have to face a Government that disrespects their dignity. Protecting people like that teacher is the reason why we have confronted corruption in Georgia so vigorously, since corruption threatened the very fabric of our society. By first going after government officials who were corrupt and who enjoyed a near-untouchable status, and then seeking to address the institutional aspects - the corruption that basically gave rise to such government officials - we have been able to reinstate the rule of law and create lasting change in the system. That is why we conducted a radical downsizing of our security services, police and customs by up to 50 per cent. Instead of poorly paid government officials - civil servants who were not given any real salaries and who were compelled to extort money from their fellow citizens - we have now introduced new salaries that are sometimes 8 to 10 times greater than those paid previously, as well as new rules of the game. We have introduced new salaries that are sometimes eight to 10 times larger than those paid previously, as well as new rules of the game. We have introduced the first-ever civilian leadership in defence, security and law-enforcement bodies. We have made these painful choices because we know that, unless we change the system itself, we cannot change the corrupt behaviour of our State officials. It is those officials who are responsible for the corrupt behaviour of businesses ó not the businessmen themselves. It is we who are responsible for failing to build a better future for our citizens. Winning this battle will mean that all citizens of my country will finally have a chance to live in a normal State - where merit rather than money makes a difference, and where rules and laws firmly and clearly govern people's actions. As I said earlier, in order to make such changes permanent and sustainable, we have raised salaries six, eight or even tenfold for public servants, so that incentives are aligned, a fair system can flourish and people can serve the State with dignity and honour. That is why we have created a new tax system that clarifies and simplifies both the payment and the administration of taxes - creating the lowest-tax regime and the least complicated tax code in the region, and eliminating institutional sources of cheating and corruption. To hesitate or move cautiously at this critical stage would mean reneging on the promises we have made and returning to business as usual in this part of the world. Our people will not forgive any hesitation. I believe that we cannot refrain from initiating reforms and taking radical steps at this time if we truly want to build a better future and forever change the rules of the game. But Georgia today is a visibly different State than it was one year ago, with fewer games and new rules. That is why those who fled Georgia throughout the past decade - one of decay and crisis - are now starting to return to their homeland. They are putting their skills, talents, ideas and energy to work for their new country. There is a great deal of new energy and a new optimism, which we are happy to observe. There is a renewed sense of hope and a renewed sense of purpose that speaks of unity and the unique strength that comes with it. Georgia's experiment in democracy is an ongoing success, not simply because I declare it or wish it, but, rather, because the people of Georgia continue to embrace it. We are a nation that 13 has a strong cultural heritage and identity, but that at the same time celebrates and cherishes religious and ethnic tolerance and religious freedom as part of that identity and that heritage. We are a nation that believes in the sanctity of rule of law and a strong judicial system. One thing is clear: democracy is thriving in our part of the world although many people thought it would not be possible. That is because the principles of democratic governance are reflected in our national identity and universal desire to be free. The creation of a successful State depends on the ability of its institutions to act maturely and responsibly in the face of shared challenges. In this new millennium, it is clear to all responsible nations that one issue above all others unites us as we seek to promote lasting peace, security and prosperity: the common war on terrorism. As a member of the global coalition that seeks to eliminate the threat of terrorism, Georgia has made, and will continue to make, contributions wherever possible and wherever necessary. Our willingness to act responsibly and to contribute is evident today in Kosovo and in Iraq - and soon will be in Afghanistan - all places to which we have sent our forces to serve alongside others in the pursuit of peace and freedom. For terrorism knows no greater enemy and no greater force than the one embodied in a free society. Today I am proud to announce Georgia's newest contribution to freedom: our offer to send fresh troops to Iraq to serve in the special protection force for the United Nations Mission in Iraq. In offering our services to the United Nations Mission, we are hopeful that our presence will foster lasting stability, prosperity and freedom for the Iraqi people ó freedom worthy of all those who live in the region at large. In the context of our cooperation with international anti-terrorist efforts, we especially value the work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council, and we support the idea of strengthening the Terrorism Prevention Branch of the Secretariat. At this point, however, one could reasonably ask why such a small country - one of fewer than 5 million people - is so out in front in its international commitments to fighting terrorism and in contributing to that global cause. The answer is as painful as it is simple. Simply put, Georgia's commitments to fighting terrorism reflect our deep understanding of the destruction that it can and has wrought in our own country and in our immediate neighbourhood. Georgia understands that we must do all we can to defeat terrorism. Unfortunately, Georgia today is still dealing with the results of unresolved separatist conflicts in two parts of our country ó Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Those conflicts have resulted in loss of life, the destruction of property, and the forced exodus and ethnic cleansing of 300,000 Georgians, thus creating a large population of internally displaced persons. Those conflicts cannot remain unresolved; we as a country will never get used to the loss of control over that part of the territory or to the plight of those who have been deprived of their livelihoods and their basic human rights. Georgia's new democracy is committed to resolving these conflicts, because no democracy can allow black holes to exist on its territory. Indeed, their existence is fundamentally incompatible with progress, development and lasting stability. No democracy can tolerate them on its territory. Today, we are living in an era where the civilized nations of the world are united in a global war on terrorism, and, in that world, neither Georgia nor the rest of the international community can afford to look the other way. Uncontrolled zones breed crime, drug trafficking, arms trading and, most notably, terrorism. The threats posed by violent separatism affect the security not only of Georgia but of the entire Caucasus. In places like Abkhazia, on the shores of the Black Sea, these lawless zones have the potential to affect European security as long as the situation there remains unresolved. The lawless territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia are safe havens for mini-dictatorships, tightly controlled by elite groups that seek to profit from the criminal status quo. It causes me pain to say that, in these extremely closed societies ó by and large cut off from the rest of the world ó children grow up with guns in their hands instead of books. Their heads are filled with hatred and intolerance, instead of respect for difference and appreciation for cultural diversity. 14 We must put an end to this cycle of destruction. We must do more to eliminate the threats to peace and security that have for too long retarded our development. As we seek to find lasting solutions to these ìfrozenî conflicts, once again Georgia can be considered a test case. Our success in that respect would be your success, too. Here, I want to state in the clearest of terms that Georgia is fully committed to solving these conflicts through solely peaceful means. Georgia will not and cannot use violence to solve these conflicts, because no democracy can go to war against its own people. What all parts of Georgia need today is development, investment, security and lasting economic growth. We will peacefully reincorporate South Ossetia and Abkhazia, so that all citizens of Georgia can share in the fruits of our success. I believe that the most effective mechanism for establishing Georgiaís unity is the creation of a strong economy, where those who are not yet sure if they want to remain outside Georgia will be given real incentives and chances to benefit from a prosperous, tolerant and successful State ó a place where they and their children will be able to find jobs, earn stable incomes, and have access to new opportunities and investments. In a strengthened economy, all of Georgia's inhabitants will know that they live in a State that is able to care for and look after them ó in sickness and in health. These are the qualities that an economically strong and democratically vibrant Georgia will guarantee all its citizens. We must do everything possible to realize that vision if we want to build a united future. As Georgia looks to the future, it does so with a clear and understandable plan. Today, I would like to introduce the idea of a new stage-by-stage settlement plan, designed to speed the resolution of these conflicts. Step one is to initiate confidence-building measures, so that new forms of trust are established that create lasting human bonds between peoples. Those measures could include exchanges and links between various non-governmental organizations ó youth group to youth group, student to student, journalist to journalist, athlete to athlete, health-care worker to health-care worker, mother to mother ó so that more citizens and more segments of our society can learn to understand one another and to trust one another. Building confidence means pursuing joint economic projects that create wealth where today there is want and create profits where today there is poverty. Building confidence means restoring and guaranteeing the right of internally displaced persons to return to their native homes. We can and must build confidence between peoples, as the first precondition for peace. We can and must do more to protect human rights through international police forces in places like Gali and through the existing Human Rights Office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, located in Gali. Together, we could move on to step two, which would focus on specific measures aimed at achieving demilitarization and a truly international format for a peacekeeping operation in our area, transforming the current peacekeeping operation into a broad international operation, so that the people of those regions can live free from fear of uncontrolled militias, irregulars and violent gangs, which hold us all hostage to the status quo. Those steps will require monitoring, verification and transparency, so that we can achieve the necessary results. The third stage, step three, envisions a global solution with global guarantees that would lead to the establishment of the fullest and broadest form of autonomy ó one that protects culture and language and guarantees self-governance, fiscal control and meaningful representation and power-sharing at the national government level. Most important, it would lead to an autonomy that empowers average people, so that isolated elites no longer act as the sole decision makers over peopleís future. Georgia greatly appreciates the support rendered by the Group of Friends and the Geneva process, as well as the concepts and principles contained within the Boden document, which should be transmitted to the Abkhaz side. Now is the time to enhance those commitments; now is the time for the international community to do much more. Simply put: the international community can no longer afford to look the other way when gross violations of human rights take place in separatist 15 enclaves, just as they can no longer afford to ignore the security risks that emanate from those black holes and smugglersí safe havens. The relevance of that point was brought to the attention of the world after terrorists seized a school of innocent children in Beslan, surprising and shocking the world with their brutality. The people of Georgia were deeply shocked, and we of course condemn that brutal act and express deep sympathy to the families of the victims of that terrible tragedy, which sent shockwaves through every Georgian household. As we know, the terrorists that seized the school are common enemies of Russia and Georgia alike. We had seen such individuals ó notorious for their acts of destruction, violence and killing ó when they unleashed the same kind of bloodshed in the name of Abkhaz separatism 10 or 11 years ago. Those terrible events prove once again that we cannot afford to ignore the dangerous linkages that exist between the separatism on one side of the Caucasus mountains and the violence on the other side. All separatists sow the seeds of great instability, and lawless zones can be sanctuaries for criminals who conduct acts of terror. It is our moral obligation to put an end to the unilateral practice of reaching out to separatists without the consent or knowledge of the authorities of the central Government in Tbilisi. In order to defeat that evil, we must not allow double standards to persist. I believe that we can work together with other countries in that respect. The time has come for Georgia and Russia to enter a new stage of cooperation whose goal is to defeat that common enemy. It is our moral obligation and profound responsibility to join forces more robustly in that cause. I firmly agree with President Putin that we can never negotiate with terrorists or cut deals with killers. But we may - and we should - work with moderate elements who seek peace without violence. We must reach out to every segment of society. We must do away forever with the Basayevs of the world, no matter what side of the border they terrorize, and reach out to ordinary, peace-loving people. All forms of violent separatism - whether in Tskhinvali, Grozny or Sukhumi - represent destabilizing factors for Russia and Georgia alike. I am confident that, by working together more robustly, we can make great progress in reducing that shared risk. I believe that there are a number of concrete initiatives on which we can embark today that will bring immediate results - initiatives that again confirm Georgia's status as a test case for the promotion of a foreign policy that leads us away from the outdated politics of domination, advancing, instead, our shared interest and the great potential for regional cooperation. That means finally coming to grips with the need to close outdated Russian military bases, left over from the past and from a country that no longer exists. Let me be clear: while we appreciate any help in strengthening our security structures so as to make us a more responsible contributor to international peace and security, Georgia is firm in its position that we will not have any new foreign military bases on our territory. Today, Georgia needs bridges, not bases; roads, not rockets. And we need cooperation, not competition, when it comes to eliminating sources of instability and terror. The mechanics of the new relationship with Russia means pooling our resources and efforts to create a joint anti-terrorism centre to counter common threats. It means expanding joint border patrols to the entire Russian-Georgian border, so that no area is left exposed. Thus the era of zero-sum thinking can be replaced with policies that lead to a win-win situation. That is my fundamental conviction. Those efforts will require greater sharing of information and intelligence, and a greater degree of trust ó all of which Georgia stands ready to provide. Why? Because such actions serve the cause of peace; because they are part of what it means to remain a responsible member of the international community of nations; and, finally, because we have no reasonable alternative: failure is not an option. In order to replace the mistrust and misperceptions that sometimes derail our progress, Georgia today proposes the establishment of new bilateral bodies to deal with issues between us and Russia, in which bilateral issues and misgivings could be regularly discussed and considered. We should begin considering the establishment of such a body so that our relations never again suffer from misunderstanding or misinterpretation. 16 We should, together, consider issues such as the protection of the rights of Russian citizens now living in Georgia so that no inhabitant of Georgia ever feels forgotten or unprotected. At the same time, of course, such relations would be based on the principles of international law and mutual respect for each otherís independence. All this and more is necessary because there is nothing more important than serving the cause of peace. And I am confident and optimistic that my colleague, President Putin, desires the very same for his people. I believe that Georgia will remain a test case in our part of the world in the near future as we build democracy and further advance cooperation. Cooperation among the United States, the European Union, Russia and the countries of the Caucasus must become the litmus test for this new relationship. Whether it is the fight against terrorism or the development of energy or of transit and trade lines, the region must become a model of cooperation and stability that benefits everybody. We are firmly on the path towards integrating into regional security structures that serve the stability and security of everybody in the region. Georgia is becoming an increasingly functional, performing State, after being a failed State just one year ago. We now have a budget that is three times bigger than it used to be. Our structures are much more efficient than they used to be. Our people are more optimistic than they used to be. We could be a major part of those structures, and we offer ourselves as a responsible member of the local and international communities. I am sure that, by following that path, we can unlock the great potential of this crucial and great region for peace, prosperity and stability - a task I look forward to pursuing with all of Georgia's friends and neighbours.I would like first to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. You have an important and challenging task ahead. In executing your duties you can be assured of my full support and that of the Maltese delegation. I take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the President of the General Assembly at its fifty- eighth session, His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte. Over the last twelve months he has successfully guided the Assemblyís work with exemplary dedication and initiative. I would also like, at the outset of my intervention this afternoon, to take the opportunity to express the solidarity of the Maltese people with those countries and people who have suffered loss of life and damage to property as a result of the recent spate of hurricanes and tropical storms, particularly the people of Haiti. We, the Maltese people, pledge our support in this hour of need. It is a source of particular satisfaction for me to address the Assembly for the first time as Prime Minister of Malta, and also for Malta in its new role as a member of the European Union. The President of the Unionís Council of Ministers, the Foreign Minister of the Netherlands, has already laid before the Assembly the objectives and priorities of the 25 members of the Union for the coming months. The upholding and development of international law and effective multilateralism are central to the European Unionís external actions. The role of the United Nations is vital in this regard. Malta has consistently supported the view that the international community needs this universal forum within which it can collectively deliberate and act upon the many problems that confront it. Our membership in the European Union gives renewed scope and added dimension to our commitment to the United Nations and its role in international affairs. Recent events have raised urgent questions about the extent to which the United Nations is fulfilling the role envisaged for it under the Charter. Inevitably this leads to some serious concerns about the effectiveness of our Organization. Nevertheless, the questions which have been raised do not diminish the case not only for its continued existence but also for its strengthening as a world body. As we survey the latest developments in crises spots around the globe, the realization intensifies that solutions to the major problems of our age are beyond the grasp and control of any single nation or particular group of nations, however powerful and determined. The international system is itself frequently overwhelmed by the immensity and complexity of many of the problems it faces. The United Nations is indeed at the forefront of action in the most critical areas - furthering development, relieving suffering, safeguarding human rights, combating terrorism, fighting environmental degradation, fostering sustainability, resolving conflicts, promoting peace and disarmament and upholding the rule of international law. Each year we derive a measure of comfort from the knowledge that some progress is being recorded in certain areas. In this yearís report the Secretary- General mentions last Julyís Framework Agreement that put the Doha Round of trade negotiations back on track; he refers to the contribution that United Nations peace missions are making towards the gradual improvement of the situation in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Somalia and the Central African Republic, as well as in Afghanistan, Papua New Guinea, Guatemala and Haiti. He records the launching of an important new programme in the fight against HIV/AIDS; he notes that for the second consecutive year the global refugee figure has decreased by nearly 1 million, and he believes that meeting the Millennium Development Goals by the target date of 2015 remains achievable. At the same time, however, the Secretary-General highlights a bewildering array of areas on which no visible progress can be registered, in spite of the fact that, as the Secretary-General reminds us, there are at present more than 56,000 uniformed personnel and some 11,000 civilian staff from 97 countries serving in 16 United Nations missions worldwide, and in spite of the fact that the whole United Nations system, including the specialized agencies, is wholeheartedly engaged in the work of promoting economic and social progress and development. The humanitarian crisis in Darfur, in western Sudan, is one stark manifestation of an apparently unbridgeable gap between intention and execution. The daily visions on television screens throughout the world of thousands of refugees suffering and dying 15 overwhelm the impact that a steady but slow diplomacy may be making in its own right. In Iraq, in Palestine and in Israel, the fact that in those difficult realities hardly a single day goes by without news of people dying violently in armed actions is in sharp contrast with the limited reports on continuing efforts to find peaceful and viable solutions. Silently, across our globe of plenty with its advanced technology, the fact remains that in spite of our collective efforts millions of individuals, many of them children, continue to suffer and die in conditions of absolute poverty, malnutrition and disease. Over the next 12 months two events will provide a special opportunity for the United Nations membership to focus on the key issues that challenge the vitality and effectiveness of our Organization. The High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, appointed by the Secretary-General last year, will soon produce its report. The Secretary-General expects that the Panel, after examining the threats we face and evaluating our existing policies, processes and institutions, will make bold and practicable recommendations. It will be up to us as Member States, collectively and individually, to be equally bold and practical in responding to those recommendations. The Panelís report will be followed in 2005 by a high-level meeting on the five-year review of the Millennium Declaration, as well as the commemoration of the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. Five years after what was expected to be the dawn of a new era, the time will be ripe for some dramatic results to emerge, not least at the institutional level. High on the agenda in this context is the reform of the Security Council. As currently constituted, the Council suffers from three noticeable weaknesses. First, it has limited means of adequately addressing the development issues involved in security matters. Secondly, the regional distribution of authority in the Council is severely lopsided. And, thirdly, the great majority of Member States, especially the smaller ones, are underrepresented in the deliberations of the Council. Urgent remedies need to be found for all these weaknesses for the Council to be able to continue to play a relevant role in the twenty-first century. In its turn, the General Assembly needs to greatly intensify current efforts to enhance the strengths inherent in its universality, while discarding the debilitating and time-consuming procedures and working methods that such universality has bred. The major organs and specialized agencies of the United Nations system also need to devise improved ways of harmonizing, through the Economic and Social Council, their many impressive, but often disparate, efforts to foster sustainable social and economic development. One of the underlying strengths of the United Nations system lies in the manner in which it permits action at the regional level to insert itself into global efforts towards peace, security and cooperation. In recent years, the progressive strengthening of the African Union has added a welcome partner to the regional framework, in what is, unfortunately, the region of greatest need. The recently enlarged European Union has also been progressively enhancing its cooperation with the United Nations at both the regional and higher levels. The Secretary-General refers in his report on the work of the Organization (A/59/1) to the significant progress in EU/United Nations cooperation on conflict prevention, peace-building and post-conflict reconstruction, as well as in crisis management activities. One area in which the EU and the United Nations are active and important partners concerns the question of Palestine. As members of the Quartet, the EU and the United Nations play a significant role by injecting a much-needed balance and objectivity into an issue tormented by violence and passion. Both the EU and the United Nations are by right major stakeholders in the issue. History and geographical proximity underpin the special interest of all EU member States in the prosperity and well-being of both Israelis and Palestinians. The creation and peaceful coexistence of two neighbouring States, Israel and Palestine, was one of the United Nations very first, but unfortunately still unfulfilled, recommendations. After decades of bitterness and wrong turns, the issue of Palestine remains jeopardized by the forces of extremism and intransigence. But extremism and intransigence ó as manifested by both the perpetrators of Palestinian suicide bombings and Israeli advocates of a continuing and forceful military occupation of Palestinian territories - do have a counterbalance on both sides, as manifested by the Geneva Initiative of late last year, among many other examples. The EU and the United Nations need to continuously exert their influence and pressure on both sides to persuade them to give greater heed and credibility to the voices of reason which lie in their midst. 16 The path to legality and reconciliation has been defined in the road map, in the many resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly and, most recently, in the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice. Even in the face of constant setbacks on the ground, the EU and United Nations Quartet partners need to remain steadfast in their insistence that the road to peace can only be set within those parameters. Malta looks at the problem both from its tragic humanitarian dimension as well as from its far- reaching implications for peace and security. One important concern for us in that regard is the impact that the problem has on issues of peace and security in the Middle East in general and the Mediterranean area in particular. One of the primary objectives of the European Union is to promote the development, through partnership, of a common zone of peace, prosperity and progress in the Mediterranean and the Middle East. In recent months the Union has elaborated a policy agenda for that strategic partnership linking together a number of instruments and mechanisms that have been put in place over the years. The Euro-Mediterranean Partnership - the Barcelona or Euromed process - and the European Neighbourhood Policy are the frameworks of that policy. A key element in the EU approach is the parallel importance assigned to the processes of security-building and to cooperation in the social, economic, cultural and humanitarian fields. In that way it ensures that the evolving relationships in the Euro- Mediterranean area are tailored to the specific concerns and needs of the individual countries and regions. For the Balkan region, the framework provided by the European Neighbourhood Policy ó and the prospect of consolidating relationships with the European Union which it implies ó constitutes an important contributory factor towards growth and stability. With the exception of the situation in Kosovo, which remains disturbing, and some other examples, progress in the Balkan region is encouraging. The almost decade-long EuroMed process has gradually but steadily put into place a useful structure for the strengthening and consolidation of relationships among the countries of the Mediterranean. It not only contributes to the economic and social development of individual countries, but also provides a stable background in which some of the wider problems may be tackled, taking into account the strong linkage that exists between security and cooperation in Europe and in the Mediterranean. It needs strengthening and broadening, and in that context, the participation of Libya in the Barcelona Euromed process would be particularly welcome. One such issue concerns the question of migration from the southern to the northern shores of the Mediterranean. As in other parts of the world, that issue needs to be tackled from the economic, social and political, as well as the humanitarian, perspective. Because of its geographical location and small size, Malta has a special sensitivity to the many problems and complexities of the issue. We are hopeful that the spirit of cooperation and understanding provided by the EuroMed process can help countries in our region to successfully tackle the challenges involved. Over the last few months, an important development took place in our region in the context of disarmament. Libyaís decision to renounce its programme of weapons of mass destruction has been welcomed by all. As a longstanding friend and close neighbour of Libya, Malta has particular reasons to welcome this development and the increased opportunities it now creates for Libya to play a significant role in the process of Euro-Mediterranean security and cooperation. It is reasonable to argue that the framework of regional stability and cooperation provided by the Euro-Mediterranean process was one factor that contributed to Libyaís decision to renounce its programme. Nevertheless, problems relating to the development of weapons of mass destruction still exist in other regions of the world. The role that can be played by initiatives encouraging regional stability and economic and social development in the resolution of these problems should not be underestimated. We must also look at the problems raised by the threat of new weapons of mass destruction as part of the wider issue of disarmament in its many aspects. The continuing commitment to the major multilateral treaties and increased efforts to intensify measures of verification and compliance are of paramount importance in this regard. Equally important is the need to bring the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty into force without further delay. The problem of the proliferation of weapons, especially weapons of mass destruction, has in our day 17 assumed a new and frightening dimension in its possible linkage with terrorism. In this regard, as the Secretary-General points out, the effective implementation of Security Council resolution 1540 (2004), adopted earlier this year, should complement ongoing efforts to strengthen existing multilateral and non-proliferation regimes. The fight against terrorism involves all of us and needs to be pursued with firmness and tenacity. At the same time, the struggle must take place on our terms and not those of the terrorists. As the Secretary- General takes every opportunity to remind us, this struggle must not take place at the expense of the fundamental freedoms and basic dignity of individuals, neither must we allow the legitimate concern to eradicate terrorism in all its aspects to distract the commitment of the global community in its endeavour towards the economic and social development of the less advantaged regions of the world. In conclusion, our concerns for the safety of our people must be counter-balanced by the assurances that those responsible for these threats will be dealt with by a coherent and effective system of trans-frontier justice that reflects respect for the rule of law. The international communityís endeavours in recent years have found fruition in the establishment of the International Criminal Court, a functioning institution that increases its effectiveness the more widely all the members of the family of nations subscribe to it. In encouraging reflection on these topical issues, I feel confident in the credentials offered by my country, whose level of commitment to the United Nations certainly makes up for any physical limitations we may have. Malta has been instrumental in developing the concept of common heritage, in relation both to the high seas and to climate change, and we have emphasized the importance of intergenerational solidarity, as evidenced not only by our initiatives on ageing but also as the host country for the International Institute on Ageing. As in previous years, the issues before of the General Assembly are many and complex. The density and variety of the agenda we have before us are both a challenge and an opportunity for our Organization. I trust that under your able guidance, Mr. President, we will find the energy and wisdom to meet these challenges and exploit these opportunities. Humanity is counting on all of us.Sir, allow me to congratulate you most warmly on your well-deserved election. I am confident you will build upon the excellent work done by your predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, and lead us to a very successful outcome of this session. Special tribute is due to our Secretary- General, Kofi Annan, for his dedicated leadership. In Bangladesh, we believe that the United Nations provides an essential political and diplomatic framework for the actions of all its Members, including the most powerful. The use of force without the authorization of the United Nations Security Council cannot render the United Nations meaningless. We laud the United Nations for its strong advocacy against unilateralism in the interest of a just global order. Our spontaneous endorsement of this principle is in conformity with the fundamentals of our foreign policy. The United Nations is not only a system for providing collective security. It is also a comprehensive international network of systems. It deals with the work of myriad specialized agencies, establishing norms, standards, codes and guidelines and buttressing the rule of law and the rights of individuals. It embraces the world’s trading, financial and monetary systems and promotes the cause of development. In our globalized world, there is no substitute for the United Nations. It is the only forum that can deal with the cooperative management of problems that recognize no frontiers. The thirtieth anniversary of our admission to the United Nations this year marks a major milestone in our partnership with the Organization. It is a sobering moment as much as it is one for rejoicing; for it is a record of our progress as a sovereign independent State. From the very outset, Bangladesh pursued two pre- eminent objectives, strengthening responsibility at home and enhancing our contribution abroad. Our relationship with the United Nations has been mutually rewarding in promoting peace and advancing development. Shaheed President Ziaur Rahman laid the foundations of our national development in the late 1970s. His philosophy embraced reinforcing democracy with development. Our achievements are largely due to this pursuit. It reflects our commitment to human rights, good governance and empowerment of the poor, especially women. Innovative ideas flowing from our own intellectual resources were harnessed, with the cooperation and support of our development partners and, of course, the United Nations system. A free press and a vibrant civil society 32 backed our efforts. The outcome was positive: it was to invoke what the World Bank described as the silent revolution that is Bangladesh. We are aware that much more remains to be done. Natural disasters have often proved to be impediments to our development. The excessive flooding this year is a case in point. Two thirds of the country was under water, and many lives were lost. Over 2 million people became homeless and our infrastructure sustained severe damage. Better preparedness prevented greater losses. The courage and resilience of the Bangladeshi people in facing the situation were indeed remarkable. We deeply appreciate the support and solidarity that we received from the international community this time. The peculiarities of our geography render flooding a seasonal occurrence. It is therefore imperative that we seek measures that will address this recurrent problem in a sustained and enduring manner, through proper management of the water resources in the region. In the final analysis, long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction measures also require international support. Despite those occasional setbacks, we in Bangladesh can point to progress in a number of important social and economic fields. Poverty reduction has been a central goal. We have reduced population growth by half, curbed child mortality by a third, achieved food self-sufficiency for our people, improved sanitation standards with home-grown methods, and reduced ozone-depleting substances and vehicular pollution overall. Education has remained a major thrust of our Government’s policy. Our school enrolment rates are among the highest in the developing world, particularly for girls. Free schooling for girl children, gender mainstreaming and the empowerment of women have helped create a vibrant and progressive society. In addition, ideas like micro- credit and non-formal education have made famous beginnings in Bangladesh. We would be happy to share our experiences with other comparable societies, and the United Nations can be an effective conduit for doing so. We encourage the United Nations in its role as a locator, collator and transmitter of best practices. That is how the United Nations can really help developing countries, by passing the litmus test of relevance, not in drafts and declarations alone but also in operations and implementation. The past decade has witnessed many important United Nations conferences focused on our critical aspirations. The leaders of the world agreed on the Millennium Development Goals. However, the success of the Goals will largely depend on an enabling international economic environment, particularly in the areas of trade, finance, official development assistance and technology transfer. Extreme poverty is a gross denial of human rights. The disturbing experiences of recent years, including the rise in senseless terrorism, warn us that failure in development is not an option, that poverty can breed extremism and that to rid the world of its tragic consequences effectively its root causes must be addressed. In today’s world, trade remains a crucial vanguard for development. Our active participation in the World Trade Organization and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development conforms to that maxim. Unhindered market access and special and preferential treatment for the products of developing countries should be at the heart of multilateral negotiations. Managed migration is an important phenomenon. However, the root causes of cross-border migratory flows need to be addressed in earnest. Greater focus must be placed on the full implementation of the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010. The goals of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and the Monterrey Consensus should be pursued with determination. While it is important to set targets, it may be more important to create the means to achieve them. For the cause of development to progress, we need an environment of peace worldwide. Sadly, that is still lacking in many parts of the world. We are concerned about the persistent violence in Iraq. We are encouraged by the return of the United Nations to the scene. We now expect the United Nations to play a central role in facilitating the democratic process and in the reconstruction and humanitarian work in that country. In Afghanistan, the holding of a successful election next month will be critical to the country’s stability. 33 Our people cherish their close bond of friendship with the people of Iraq and Afghanistan. We pray that their travails will be over soon. A core issue in the Middle East remains the unresolved problem of Palestine. The Palestinians have suffered far too much for far too long, and the wall now only exacerbates that suffering. Perhaps there can be a two-State solution on the basis of the pre-1967 borders, with an independent Palestine that has East Jerusalem as its capital. Until that is achieved, there must be respect for international law, and all peoples in the region must be able to live in peace and security, free from violence, destruction and acts of terror. Wherever it has been possible, Bangladesh has not fought shy of contributing to post-conflict stability. We have always done so under the aegis of the United Nations. We are near the top of the list of participating countries with regard to peacekeeping. Over the past 20 years, we have been involved in 28 United Nations peacekeeping operations across 4 continents. Currently, we are participating in 12 of the 16 United Nations missions. We have done so because we see this as advancing our role and perception as a constructive and stabilizing international actor. We do not do it out of convenience; we do it out of our conviction. We believe that there is a direct relationship between disarmament and development. Bangladesh is party to all major international conventions and treaties on disarmament. Our geographical location makes nuclear weapons a direct and legitimate cause for concern to us in the South Asia region. Bangladesh therefore supports all measures, partial and otherwise, towards arms control and conventional and nuclear disarmament. Bangladesh has condemned international terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We remain an active coalition partner in the war against terrorism. Bangladesh has been playing an active role in many important committees and commissions of the United Nations. We believe that the reform of the General Assembly and the Security Council that is currently being discussed can truly help re-energize the system and enable those institutions to reflect the realities of the contemporary world. Consultations should be broad-based and should not be guided by the perceived interests of a few alone. Bangladesh believes that any increase in the membership of the Council should be based on certain criteria, including respect for the principle of equitable geographical distribution and the aspirant’s contribution to international peace and security, its proven track-record in democracy, its compliance with United Nations resolutions, its avowed commitment to nuclear disarmament, its profile as a major partner in development and its contribution as a voice of economically disadvantaged countries. Bangladesh believes that the ultimate focus of any reform exercise should be on enhancing the Council’s credibility and democratic profile through its working methods and its decision-making processes. The quest for world order must begin at our own doorstep. Bangladesh is committed to maintaining the credibility of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) to provide its socio-economic mandate and to reduce tension and create a broad- based climate of confidence-building. Bangladesh will take over as chairperson of the thirteenth SAARC summit in January, next year. The occasion will mark the 20th anniversary of SAARC, and we look forward to celebrating the occasion with due solemnity as well as maintaining positive and forward-moving momentum. Our overarching commitment, of course, remains poverty alleviation. All in all, we aspire to expand our collective agenda for peace, progress and development in South Asia and beyond. I firmly believe that nations big and small, weak and powerful, all need the United Nations as much as the United Nations needs them. It is only by combining our endeavours and uniting our resolve that we will be able to achieve our objectives of peace, security and development. The power of humanity does not lie in the size of its armies but rather in the strength of its ideas, not in its ability to destroy but in its capability to build, not in its tendencies to despair, but in its propensities for hope. Our ability to tap this power for our own benefit will shape our future in these times marked by difficulties but also possibilities.This year’s general debate unfolds against an international backdrop in which terrorist acts of great ferocity have become all too common. The latest, heinous form of terrorism is hostage-taking, which has caused deep sorrow to many of our nations. Again and again, the international community has been caught off guard, unable to respond quickly or effectively. New humanitarian catastrophes have afflicted some of the world’s poorest peoples. Difficult stabilization processes are still under way in many regions where the international community is implementing United Nations resolutions. Some areas of the world have seen economic and social progress. Yet we cannot ignore the fact that entire regions — especially in Africa — are crippled by poverty, malnutrition, disease and illiteracy. That is why Italy takes a leading role in combating those ills in multilateral forums and through bilateral means. Our peoples demand security. We must join forces to strengthen international cooperation and to confront the common threat of terrorist organizations. The false prophets of terror are able to spread their message of death as a result of ignorance among cultures. To counter their distortions, we should mobilize people’s consciences and strengthen dialogue among civilizations with different histories but shared values and a common belief in human dignity. Peace and development — the agenda of security and human promotion — are related goals that require a coordinated approach carried out through multilateral institutions and in a spirit of equal partnership with developing countries. In that regard, I would like to stress the fundamental importance of a major event that will take place in 2005. That initiative will be a unique opportunity for a comprehensive review of progress towards the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. In our globalized, interdependent world, international organizations are expected to provide leadership not only through abstract formulations of general principles, but also through effective, shared initiatives supported by broad consensus. Our priority is to strengthen the multilateral system and to reinvigorate the role of the United Nations. That is the responsibility that the Secretary-General set out for us 27 at the last session of the General Assembly. There are two conditions for success: a sounder understanding of the threats we face and a broad consensus on the policies aimed at confronting them. Effective multilateralism depends much more on political will and shared goals than on structures and procedures. The multilateral system — which demands responsibility and commitment — is judged by the results it enables us to achieve. That is why the whole international community must be involved, starting with the States that command greater resources and capabilities. Multilateral decisions can be difficult, but that is no excuse for inaction. The starting point for United Nations reform is a review of the Organization’s policies. Italy welcomes the reform of United Nations peacekeeping and peace- building, which we — as the sixth largest contributor to the United Nations budget and one of the top contributors of troops to peacekeeping operations over the past 10 years — support. Strengthening that critical sector will help to prevent the recurrence of conflicts, to consolidate the gains of peace, to re-establish the rule of law and to guarantee freedom for all. Italy will also continue to support the growing financial, operational and training demands of new missions, particularly in Africa — here, I am also thinking about the New Partnership for Africa’s Development — and elsewhere. Crisis management is a United Nations priority that demands greater coordination of its components and a stronger commitment on the part of Member States to protect human beings and to uphold their dignity. We thus look forward to the report of the Panel of Eminent Personalities appointed by the Secretary- General. The membership will have to examine it and discuss its recommendations thoroughly and openly. A firm agreement on the policies of the United Nations must be upheld by institutions that enjoy the consensus and participation of the membership. We are encouraged by the results achieved so far with regard to improving the functioning of the General Assembly. On Security Council reform, we have not yet been able to find an agreement that reconciles the various approaches on the table. That should not deter us from seeking solutions that are not divisive. Any decision imposed upon Member States would seriously undermine the credibility of the Council and the legitimacy of its action. Confronted with global challenges of great magnitude, the international community cannot afford profound divisions within its ranks. Italy is in favour of a Security Council reform inspired by the principles of greater inclusiveness, effectiveness, democratic participation and geographic representation, starting with the developing countries. We are firmly convinced that the best way to pursue such a reform is to establish new non-permanent seats. Since States would occupy those seats on the basis of periodic elections, they would be accountable to the general membership. Some Member States, however, have advocated the addition of new permanent seats — for themselves. We do not believe the Council’s difficulties can be resolved through new permanent, irrevocable appointments and national mandates. Such a move would sow division, frustration, and perhaps disengagement, among the membership. Important areas of the world would be left without representation. For one, there would be no seat at the Council table for the Arab and Islamic world. Can the international community really afford this at a time when we are trying to broaden the dialogue among different faiths and cultures? On the other hand, if a broad consensus emerges with full respect for the sovereign equality of all Member States, we are willing to contemplate more frequent rotation or longer terms for countries that make a greater contribution to the objectives of the United Nations. Should reflections of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change be driven by such a bold and innovative approach, we would strongly support their endeavour. I am convinced that many other countries would also be ready to accept it. In addition, a closer relationship should be built between elected members and their regional groups. That would enhance the accountability of elected members and would make the Council more representative and its deliberations more legitimate. Already in San Francisco in 1945 the founding fathers recognized the importance of regional organizations, whose relations with the United Nations are governed by Chapter VIII of the Charter, and whose role has grown steadily in the years that followed. Increasingly, States belonging to the same region have felt a sense of common responsibility for crises affecting them all. Moreover, regional 28 arrangements provide small to mid-size States with a greater say in the decisions of international forums. More should be done to express those realities at the United Nations and in the Security Council. As a founding member of the European Union, the depositary of its treaties and the host for the solemn signature of the new European Constitution, Italy believes that today’s 25-member European Union has a fundamental contribution to make to the objectives of the United Nations. We have always worked to allow the European Union to speak with a single, more influential, voice. We realize, of course, that we are dealing with a gradual process. Nevertheless, we must stay the course and not jeopardize the achievement of our goal in the interests of all Europeans. Let me conclude with a final, strong appeal to States Members. Let us join forces, abandon national ambitions and seek the least divisive ways to enhance multilateralism. That is the only way the international community can meet the global challenges of the new millennium. In deciding between the satisfaction of the few and the inclusion of the many, the wrong choice is a luxury that the United Nations — at the very heart of the international system — can ill afford to make.Every year at the United Nations, we go through the same ritual. We attend the general debate knowing beforehand that the clamour for justice and peace by our underdeveloped countries will be ignored once again. However, we persist. We know that we are right. We know that one day we will accomplish social justice and development. We also know that such assets will not be given away to us. We know that the peoples will have to seize them from those who deny us justice today, because they underpin their wealth and arrogance with disdain for our grief. It will not be always like that, however. We say so today with more conviction than ever before. Having said this, and knowing as we do that some powerful ones — just a few — present here will be chagrined, and also knowing that they are shared by many, Cuba will now tell some truths. First, after the aggression on Iraq, there is no United Nations, understood as a useful and diverse forum based on respect for the rights of all and with guarantees for the small States. It is experiencing the worst moment of its nearly 60 years. It languishes, it gasps for air, it keeps up appearances, but it does not work. Who handcuffed the United Nations, named by President Roosevelt? President Bush. Second, United States troops will have to be withdrawn from Iraq. Now that the lives of over 1,000 American youths have been uselessly sacrificed to serve the spurious interests of a clique of cronies and buddies, and following the deaths of more than 12,000 Iraqis, it is clear that the only way out for the occupier faced with a people in revolt is to recognize the impossibility of subduing them and to withdraw. In spite of the imperial monopoly over information, peoples always get to the truth. Someday, those responsible and their accomplices will have to deal with the consequences of their actions in the face of history and their own peoples. Third, for the time being, there will be no valid, real and useful reform of the United Nations. It would take the super-Power, which inherited the immense prerogative of governing an order conceived for a bipolar world, to relinquish its privileges. And it will not do so. 33 As of now, we know that the anachronistic privilege of the veto will remain; that the Security Council will not be democratized as it should be or expanded to include third world countries; that the General Assembly will continue to stand ignored; and that, at the United Nations, there will be more actions driven by the interests imposed by the super-Power and its allies. We, as non-aligned countries, will have to entrench ourselves in defending the United Nations Charter, because if we do not it will be redrafted with the deletion of every trace of such principles as the sovereign equality of States, non-intervention and the non-use or the threat of use of force. Fourth, the powerful collude to divide us. The 130-plus underdeveloped countries must build a common front for the defence of the sacred interests of our peoples and of our right to development and peace. Let us revitalize the Non-Aligned Movement. Let us strengthen the Group of 77. Fifth, the modest objectives of the Millennium Declaration will not be accomplished. We will reach the fifth anniversary of the Summit in a situation that has worsened. We sought to halve by 2015 the 1.276 billion human beings in abject poverty that existed in 1990. There would have to be a yearly reduction of more than 46 million poor people. However, excluding China, between 1990 and 2000, extreme poverty rose by 28 million people. Poverty does not decline, it grows. We wanted to reduce by half by 2015 the 842 million hungry people in the world. There would have had to be a yearly reduction of 28 million. However, there has been a reduction of barely 2.1 million hungry people per year. At this rate, the goal will be attained by 2215, two hundred years after what was envisaged, and only if our species survives the destruction of its environment. We proclaimed the aspiration to achieve universal primary education by 2015. However, more than 120 million children — or 1 in every 5 children of school age — do not attend primary school. According to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), at the current rate, the goal will be achieved after 2100. We also proposed to reduce by two thirds the mortality rate in children under the age of five. The reduction has been symbolic: whereas 86 children died per 1,000 live births in 1998, the figure is now 82. Every year, 11 million children continue to die of diseases that can be prevented or cured, and their parents rightfully wonder what our meetings are for. We said that we would pay attention to Africa’s special needs. However, very little has been done. African nations do not need foreign advice or models, but rather financial resources and access to markets and technologies. Assisting Africa would not be an act of charity, but an act of justice, a settling of the historic debt resulting from centuries of exploitation and pillage. We committed ourselves to halting and starting to reverse the AIDS epidemic by 2015. However, in 2003, it claimed nearly 3 million lives. At this rate, some 36 million people will have died of this disease by 2015. Sixth, creditor countries and the international financial agencies will not seek a just and lasting solution to foreign debt. They prefer to keep us in debt — in other words, vulnerable. Therefore, even though we have paid off $4.1 trillion in debt servicing over the last 13 years, our debt has increased from $1.4 trillion to $2.6 trillion. This means that we have paid three times what we owed and now our debt is twice as large. Seventh, we, the underdeveloped countries, are the ones that finance the wastefulness and the opulence of developed countries. While in 2003 they gave us $68.4 billion in official development assistance (ODA), we delivered $436 billion to them as payment for the foreign debt. Who is helping whom? Eighth, the fight against terrorism can only be won through cooperation among all nations, with respect for international law, and not through massive bombings or pre-emptive wars against dark corners of the world. We must put an end to hypocrisy and double standards. Sheltering three Cuban-born terrorists in the United States is an act complicit with terrorism. Punishing five young Cuban antiterrorists, together with their families, is a crime. Ninth, general and complete disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, is impossible today. It is the responsibility of a group of developed countries that are the ones that sell and buy the most weapons. However, we must continue to strive for this goal. We must demand that the over $900 billion set aside every year for military expenditures be used for development. 34 Tenth, the financial resources to guarantee the sustainable development of all peoples on the planet are available, but what is lacking is the political will of those who rule the world. A development tax of merely 0.1 per cent on international financial transactions would generate resources amounting to almost $400 billion a year. The cancellation of the foreign debt incurred by underdeveloped countries would allow them to have no less than $436 billion a year available for their development, money which is currently used to pay off the constantly-rising debt. If developed countries complied with their commitment to set aside 0.7 per cent of their gross national product as ODA, and not 0.2 per cent as they currently do, their contribution would increase from the current $68.4 billion to $160 billion a year. Lastly, I want to clearly express Cuba’s profound conviction that the 6.4 billion human beings on this planet — who have equal rights according to the United Nations Charter — urgently require a new order in which the world is not in suspense, as is the case now, awaiting the outcome of the elections in a new Rome, in which only half the voters will participate and nearly $1.5 billion will be spent. There is no discouragement in our words; I must make that clear. We are optimistic, because we are revolutionaries. We have faith in the struggle of the peoples, and we are sure that we will achieve a new world order based on respect for the rights of all — an order based on solidarity, justice and peace, resulting from the best of universal culture, not from mediocrity or brute force. With regard to Cuba — and neither blockades, threats, hurricanes, droughts, nor human or natural force can divert it from its course — I shall say nothing. On 28 October, for the thirteenth time, the General Assembly will discuss and vote on a draft resolution on the blockade against the Cuban people. Once again, morality and principles will defeat arrogance and force. I conclude by recalling the words spoken here 25 years ago by President Fidel Castro: “The clashing of weapons, the threatening language and the overbearing behaviour in the international arena must cease. Enough of the illusion that the problems of the world can be solved by nuclear weapons. Bombs may kill the hungry, the sick and the ignorant; but bombs cannot kill hunger, disease and ignorance. Nor can bombs kill the righteous rebellion of the peoples.” Allow me to express my sincere thanks to the President of the General Assembly at its previous session, Julian Hunte, whose able and skilful leadership we enjoyed during the past session. I also wish the President at the fifty-ninth session, Jean Ping, a year of highly constructive and successful work. It is our common duty to make this fifty-ninth session a success and a fitting preparation for the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations and the first high-level review of the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, to be held next year. I believe these two occasions will offer an excellent framework for a serious review of how the changing global situation can be met by a renewed United Nations. The risks and challenges of the new millennium affect us all and can be tackled only by common efforts. Threats such as terrorism recognize no borders, no differentiation by race, religion, or ethnicity. The horror, devastation and fear that terrorism brings are 31 the same whether in Casablanca, Madrid, New York, Jerusalem or Beslan. Terrorism cannot be justified. And there can be no excuses and no leniency in confronting it. The fight against terrorism must remain one of the priority tasks of individual Member States and of the United Nations. Even as we speak, humanitarian crises, poverty, famine and disease continue to plague large parts of the world. Across the globe, almost a billion people survive on less than a dollar a day. In sub-Saharan Africa alone, around 300 million people live in abject poverty. In Iraq, the hope for universal and free elections is marred by almost daily explosions, and security remains too precarious for the United Nations to resume its pivotal role. The Middle East conflict continues taking its desperate death toll. And the word genocide is once again on our lips owing to the Darfur crisis in Sudan. Therefore, we need to go the extra mile, to make extra efforts to empower the United Nations to deal successfully with these and other threats and challenges, because the United Nations, despite all the criticism, remains the only Organization capable of embodying the principles of a truly global and effective multilateralism. The United Nations can offer the global reach and legitimacy necessary to enable the international community to act. As the nature of threats before us is changing and new responses are needed, it is high time to agree on future policies and principles. Today we need to build a shared understanding of the nature of modern threats to international peace and security. Much depends on the ability of the United Nations — that is, on us — to reach a new consensus on collective security. Our strength lies in our resolve to deal collectively with major challenges to peace, security and sustainable development. Today, more than ever before, the United Nations has to play the leading role in building societies that follow the path of good governance, respect human rights and the rule of law. We must be able to intervene and to prevent situations of massive human rights violations. We must also be firm in our struggle against all attempts to encroach upon human dignity, against all forms and manifestations of intolerance, anti-Semitism, racism or Islamophobia. The international community is vulnerable to the dangers posed by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, international organized crime, environmental degradation and the spread of highly dangerous diseases, such as HIV/AIDS. Our common efforts against these and other threats must be universal, consistent, systematic and unwavering. No less universal and consistent must be our efforts to reduce poverty and hunger, to diminish disparities between and within nations, to improve living conditions for women and children and to offer a hope of a dignified life to ever-larger segments of the world’s population, as pledged in the Millennium Declaration. We need to press ahead with the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. We need to reinforce our political will to make our global partnership more effective, by fully honouring the commitments undertaken by the Monterrey Consensus. Without peace there is no development. Without development there is no peace. This recognized linkage of security and development should be better reflected in our global agenda. Only by confronting these issues in a coherent and coordinated manner shall we be able to build our common future. Lithuania is ready to contribute bilaterally and multilaterally to the implementation of the Millennium Goals, and by sharing our experience of a national reform process. Our membership in the enlarged European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance enables us to play a more active role by embracing the principles of development policy and by adopting the role of a donor. Next year we will discuss how to find consensus on the institutional and political framework for the United Nations to operate in the future. Lithuania fully embraces the need for reform of the United Nations for the sake of enhancing its effectiveness and inclusiveness. We hope that the outcome of the deliberations of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change will be able to contribute significantly to giving a renewed impetus to the reform of the United Nations. If so, the next test will be to find broad agreement on changes and follow their implementation. 32 I hope, too, that next year will be crucial in moving ahead with the long-debated reform of the Security Council. The issue is not whether the Security Council should be enlarged. It is how to make it effective and representative. Therefore, Lithuania fully embraces the idea of ensuring broader representation and responsibility for the Security Council. In addition, the Economic and Social Council must be renewed and strengthened. By dedicating ourselves to Economic and Social Council reform we have a real chance to make it an effective tool in the hands of active and responsible United Nations members. It is my hope and wish that by the end of this session we shall arrive at marking the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations with the conviction and satisfaction that we have done everything in our power to build a better Organization, one capable of responding to both old and new, hard and soft, threats and challenges in an effective and comprehensive way. Fully aware that the United Nations was created to serve humankind, let us embrace this challenge. Let us bring to fruition the promise that the United Nations is capable of fulfilling the hopes and aspirations of the peoples for whom it was created.It is my pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. Your election is a testament to the greatness of our African continent. I am pleased to address the Assembly and share the views of my country, Libya, on a number of serious and sensitive issues that we deem important for joint international action and increased universal cooperation. Last year, we relinquished our right to speak to the President of the African Union in the expectation that he would speak for the entire Union. It seems, however, that the African Union has no post of Foreign Minister and that the Ministers of member States were therefore compelled to speak instead. Thus, I am obliged to speak now. All States obviously agree that the current structure and the rules of procedure of the United 14 Nations are flawed, and all States agree on the need for reform. Indeed, before we can discuss reform in the Middle East, the former republics of the Soviet Union or any other area of the world, we must first reform the United Nations. Before we speak about lack of democracy in the world, we must first recognize the lack of democracy in the United Nations. Furthermore, because the General Assembly is the parliament of parliaments and the Security Council is the government of governments, we have no right to talk about democracy and reform in the world unless we first reform the structure of the United Nations. The past 59 years have demonstrated that the General Assembly is merely a decorative body without a soul and that the authority lies with the Security Council, which controls all the work of the United Nations. It is the one and only authority. My country therefore proposes that the upcoming sixtieth session of the General Assembly should be decisive and important, and that invitations should be extended to all world leaders to participate. We should announce that decisions on radical reform for the United Nations will be taken at the sixtieth session. God willing, President Muammar Al-Qadhafi, in what will be his first visit to the General Assembly, will attend that session, which will be a historic milestone involving a confrontation with the grave and unjust situation currently prevailing at the United Nations. We propose that the sixtieth session be held in Geneva — the geographical centre of the world — to facilitate the attendance of all world leaders and presidents, even if additional funds have to be allocated in order to convene the meeting in Geneva. My country is ready to contribute financial support for that endeavour. There are two options before us. Our first option is to transfer the authority to invoke Chapters VI and VII of the Charter from the Security Council to the General Assembly. If that cannot be done, we have no choice but to declare the General Assembly null and void and to stop pouring money into this moribund body. Our second option is to increase the membership of the Security Council by allocating seats to new entities such as the African Union, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and Latin America. In addition, the right of veto will have to be reviewed and made subject to new rules at the same time as the membership of the Security Council is expanded. We warn that, unless these reforms are implemented, the United Nations will cease to exist, as unilateral actions are taking place outside the confines of the United Nations. The African Union must have a permanent seat on the Security Council. That seat will be held by the Union’s members in rotation. As the sixtieth session of the General Assembly approaches, Libya is presenting a unique, bold and strong initiative to eliminate its programmes of weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear and chemical weapons, and hand over related equipment to the International Atomic Energy Agency. Libya played the central role in the establishment of the African Union and contributed effectively to the liberation of colonized and oppressed peoples. Libya, with its 2,000-kilometre coastline along the Mediterranean Sea, is at the centre of the world and is both a place of conflict and a haven for tourism. The Mediterranean Sea without Libya is inconceivable, as is the south Mediterranean coast without Libya. Libya gave birth to the third universal theory — the middle ground between capitalism and communism — and presented the world with the Green Book, which resolves the political, economic and social problems of society in its three sections. Accordingly, Libya deserves to have a permanent seat on the Security Council. Colonel Muammar Al-Qadhafi presented a proposal to world leaders, which they all approved. The proposal calls for the establishment of a committee of wise men, consisting of President Nelson Mandela, President Mikhail Gorbachev and President Bill Clinton, that would serve as an authority for resolving the conflicts of our world. The United Nations should adopt a resolution supporting that proposal. We must all continue to combat terrorism. If we want to eliminate terrorism, we must first eliminate its causes and not simply pursue its isolated operations. We must attack its root causes. If we want oil supplies and prices to remain stable, we must prevent wars and potential conflicts from occurring near oil fields. 15 Finally, Colonel Al-Qadhafi will soon address the issue of United Nations reform on his web site: www. alqadhafi.org.I would like to begin by expressing our appreciation to Mr. Julian Hunte, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, for his accomplished and skilful leadership of the General Assembly during its previous session. I would also like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I would also like to commend the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the great wisdom that he has shown in the discharge of his functions. He deserves our respect and appreciation, and we extend to him our support and solidarity. My country has reached a crucial point in its history. It faces the challenge of living up to the expectations raised by the end of the internal armed conflict. Since January, when I assumed office, the frustrated hopes of all of our people have been rekindled. My plan of government is predicated on the peace agreements and defines their implementation as a commitment of the whole nation. As President of 11 Guatemala, I endorse fully the principle that a firm and lasting peace must be based on participatory socio- economic development, aimed at achieving the common good and responding to the needs of all of our people, particularly those still living in extreme poverty. Since I took office, I have made a point of listening to the opinions of all of our citizens. That has enabled me to identify the constraints facing Guatemala, which it must overcome if it is to deal adequately with the many legitimate social demands and expectations. The actions that my Government intends to take in the period 2004 to 2008 will focus on four areas: social investment; conditions of production; environmental sustainability; and security for all. Those policies are being carried out within the framework of the principles of solidarity and inclusiveness; decentralization and participation; and transparency in public actions. Those areas of action and principles accord fully with the Millennium Development Goals. I would like to single out a number of achievements resulting from our new approach to government. We have reduced our troop strength by 43 per cent and have begun to modernize the armed forces and to make them more professional, consistent with the functions that they are required to perform in time of peace. This includes, at the international level, greater participation by the Guatemalan army in United Nations peace operations, for example in Haiti. In terms of public spending, we are according priority to education, health, security, citizenship and infrastructure. We are fighting petty crime, gang-related crime and organized crime, focusing in particular on combating drug trafficking, terrorism, smuggling, money laundering, trafficking in persons and the illegal arms trade, all of which represent a huge challenge that cannot be overcome without the support of the international community. We are waging an all-out war against corruption, and creating mechanisms to ensure transparency in public procurement and contracting. For the first time in the history of our country, charges of corruption are being investigated, and those found guilty will be prosecuted. We have adopted a series of measures aimed at elaborating and implementing a fiscal pact. Sustained efforts are being made to meet the taxation goals set out in the peace agreements, within the framework of my Government’s objectives for economic growth. We have, as a matter of priority, established a national front against hunger and malnutrition. Working with civil society, we have elaborated a policy on food and nutritional security. We have consolidated our responsible approach to macroeconomic management; that is necessary if we are to promote competitiveness and productive investment and ensure the well-being of all Guatemalans. In this context, we launched a programme for economic and social recovery, entitled Vamos Guatemala. We have taken firm measures to eliminate extreme poverty and reduce social exclusion, while fully respecting our diversity — for Guatemala is a multi-ethnic, multicultural and multilingual country. My Government is committed to full respect for human rights. We believe that every Guatemalan should enjoy basic rights and fundamental freedoms, and that the right to development must be ensured. In this context, Guatemala will cooperate with international bodies that promote and protect human rights. My Government’s foreign policy is consistent with its national interests. Our guiding principle is the need to ensure that Guatemala can take its proper place in today’s globalized world, as well as to strengthen multilateralism and regional integration. The presidents of the Central American countries have given greater impetus to our integration process. This year, we took the decisions required to bring to fruition a customs union between El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Guatemala. My Government is proposing a new beginning in its bilateral relationship with Belize. We must reach a permanent, just, equitable and honourable settlement of the territorial dispute between the two countries, while at the same time making a constructive effort to resolve the socio-economic problems afflicting our peoples. That is why my Government is promoting joint projects relating to production, a trade agreement, greater flexibility in the transit of persons, goods and services, full observance of human rights and the 12 conclusion of agreements for mutual legal assistance, all of which will contribute to the progress of our peoples and to the security of the region. The Central American countries have just concluded trade negotiations with the United States. Last May, at the Guadalajara Summit, an announcement was made regarding the initiation of a process leading up to an association agreement between Central America and the European Union, to include a free trade agreement. We will shortly be signing a trade agreement with Colombia, and we hope to conclude free trade agreements with Taiwan, MERCOSUR, the Andean Group and the Caribbean Community. Looking after the interests of Guatemalan emigrants is also a priority issue for my Government. We provide support for them as they seek solutions to their problems and respect for their fundamental rights. We are in contact with the receiving countries, particularly the United States of America, with a view to regularizing the situation of emigrants, who make a substantial contribution to the well-being of their communities. All the efforts that Guatemala is making to overcome poverty and achieve socio-economic development necessarily depend on the progress being made in multilateral trade negotiations. Guatemala appeals to the international community to fulfil its longstanding commitments to eliminate all the measures and practices that distort markets, to liberalize trade in our products and, more generally, to adopt measures enabling a country like Guatemala, which has been striving to open its economy, to obtain better opportunities for access to markets for its exports. May I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the United Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala (MINUGUA), which, after 10 years of fruitful work, is reaching the end of its mandate. MINUGUA has left an important legacy in our country. I would like to turn now to our agenda at this session. We are convinced of the need to adapt the Organization to the new challenges, threats and changes that humanity faces. We trust that 2005 will offer us an opportunity to react to them in a responsible manner. One of the most timely issues is the reform of the Security Council. Our position thereon has been evolving, reflecting the imperative need to make that organ more representative, transparent and effective. We advocate the expansion of its membership and could agree to such an expansion being applied to both categories of members — permanent and non- permanent — so long as the need to ensure adequate geographic representation is taken into account. The reform of the Security Council would be the point of departure for the adaptation of all the organs of the United Nations to the new circumstances. We favour the strengthening of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. We reiterate our complete repudiation of all forms of terrorism. We are taking all feasible measures at the national level against the scourge and support the collective action of the international community to combat it, inter alia, through the implementation of Security Council resolutions 1373 (2001) and 1390 (2002), as well as participation in the relevant treaties. We are convinced of the need for a stronger collective capacity to prevent and resolve conflicts. We believe that the United Nations should continue to address the imperative of development, including such emerging issues as transnational migrations. We also feel that our Organization should play a vital role in seeking to ensure that the benefits of globalization are widely distributed among all countries. In that connection, we wish to highlight the significance we attach to the Monterrey Consensus and the Johannesburg Plan of Action. Guatemala is conscious of the divisions that persist in the Middle East, Asia and Africa among neighbouring countries. We earnestly hope that the disputes between them can be resolved through dialogue and other peaceful means, thus enabling all peoples of the world to be represented here without rejection or discrimination. I wish to note in particular our concern over the situation of the 23 million inhabitants of the Republic of China on Taiwan, whose aspirations to representation in international bodies remain unfulfilled. We also wish to voice our earnest hope that the difficult situation prevailing in the Middle East, which has deteriorated of late, will be resolved in conformity with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 1397 (2002) and 1402 (2002). 13 Under your guidance, Sir, this Assembly will have to address issues of the greatest significance for humankind and the United Nations. Guatemala undertakes to participate actively in this year’s debates and in the special event to be held just before our next regular session. We hasten to offer our cooperation with a view to the success of your endeavours.First, I would like to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon, on his election as the President of the General Assembly. We meet in New York under conditions of high security. All over the world, Governments, corporations and individuals are allocating vast resources to combat terrorism. The Beslan massacre last month and the Jakarta bombing two weeks ago remind us once again that the war against terrorism is a long struggle. Fighting it requires us to cooperate worldwide. It is also important for us to understand more deeply why terrorists are prepared to sacrifice their own lives to take the lives of others, including those of innocent children. The human condition has not changed. There is in human beings a restless, competitive spirit that strives to get ahead, make discoveries and order or reorder the world according to their values and world-view. It is a drive that can lead to great good or great evil. The greatest evil is often committed out of a sense of self-righteousness. That has been the case throughout history. Al Qaeda carries out its actions in the name of Islam, which is a gross perversion. Religious wars are the most cruel because human beings are maimed and killed in the name of the divine. Ethnic and ideological conflicts sometimes turn 30 genocidal when one side believes that right is completely on its side. Unrestrained economic competition can also lead to grave injustice. Without rules, ruthless economic competition will return us to the jungle. Without the World Trade Organization (WTO), globalization can become a tool with which the strong can dominate the weak, just as in an earlier period entire continents were carved up by imperial Powers. Global organizations like the United Nations and WTO give us hope that this century can be more civilized than previous ones. We need rules that put limits on our competitiveness in the political and economic arenas. As in the Olympic Games, clear rules and their rigorous enforcement enable individuals to compete fiercely and triumph within a framework of sportsmanship and fairness. The rules are not there to dampen our natural competitive spirit, but to direct it towards positive achievement. But the rules have to be determined by common agreement. Their legitimacy is derived from the shared values that bind participants together. They have to evolve, along with our evolving sense of what is fair and proper. They cannot be imposed. If they are imposed, what we have will not be the Olympics but the gladiatorial pits of the Roman Colosseum. At the most fundamental level, discussions and debates in the United Nations and WTO are really about the values that bind us together as human beings. As the world grows smaller, our sense of interdependence grows. As we interact more, we discover that we are more similar than we think. So many problems like global warming, epidemics and terrorism can only be overcome if we work together. So many new opportunities can only be fully exploited if we combine our efforts. Yes, we have become closer. We celebrated together when for the first time the human genome was mapped a few years ago. We grieved as one on 11 September 2001. The slaughter of children at Beslan outraged us all. But will we ever be the same? That is not possible. It is neither in our biological nature nor in the nature of the historical process for human societies to converge and become identical. Even the same society changes over time in response to changing conditions. There is in each and everyone of us a deep desire to be free, to experiment and to be better than others around us. Like all forms of energy, human energy must be channelled so that it is constructive and not destructive. That is the challenge of governance at all levels, from the village all the way to global institutions. With the world becoming a village because of the ease of travel and instant communication, the design of global institutions is very important. They help us solve problems which we cannot solve individually and set limits on acceptable behaviour. The problem of Palestine, for example, cannot be solved without the participation of the larger global community. All of us are aware of the rights and wrongs, and sometimes particular issues are right or wrong, depending on our perspective. However, we should never lose hope. We should always look for new and creative ways to break old deadlocks. After all, it was only a few years ago that the prospects for peace seemed so much brighter. I remember when, as Singapore’s Trade Minister, I met the Israeli Trade Minister at Davos in the year 2000. He said that he would like to visit me in Singapore with his Palestinian counterpart and, together with me, to take a boat to the Singapore industrial park on a nearby Indonesian island, where he hoped that we could all be received by the Indonesian Trade Minister. I was inspired and immediately worked with my Indonesian counterpart on this project of understanding and goodwill. Unfortunately, within half a year, the intifada began and the cycle of violence became steadily worse. It all seems such a long time ago. However, we must never give up. With goodwill and statesmanship on both sides, and with the support of all of us in the international community, it is possible to re-establish trust and to start again. Moreover, the international community should not allow the deteriorating relationship across the Taiwan Straits to spin out of control. The push towards independence by certain groups on Taiwan is most dangerous, because it will lead to war with mainland China and will drag in other countries. The stability of the entire Asia-Pacific region is at stake. Not many years ago, the relationship between the mainland and Taiwan was much better. In 1991, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) — a grouping of economies around the Pacific Ocean — admitted China, Taiwan and Hong Kong on the basis of certain agreed principles. At an APEC meeting in 1992, I remember joining the Trade Ministers of China, Taiwan and Hong Kong for a relaxed lunch in Bangkok. Later, in 1993, 31 representatives from China and Taiwan met in Singapore for informal talks, with both sides acknowledging, “One China: to each its own interpretation”. All problems seemed soluble then. But, in 1994, Taiwanese President Lee Teng-hui gave a shocking interview to a Japanese magazine, describing himself as a Moses leading his people out of Egypt. From then on, cross-straits relations went from bad to worse as pro-independence forces on Taiwan became increasingly adventurous. As in the Middle East, the international community has a strong vested interest in supporting a peaceful resolution of cross-straits conflict, based on the “one China” position that was adopted and settled by the United Nations in 1971. Even when the United Nations has no legal authority to enforce its wishes, its views carry moral weight. This legitimacy of the Organization is derived from its broad membership, its transparent processes and the active participation of Member States. It is important that the Security Council — which has the power to adopt resolutions binding on all United Nations Member States — be reformed and enlarged so as to reflect the reality of the current international environment. We need rules that enable us to make decisions and to express our collective judgement of right and wrong, and those rules must evolve in response to new challenges. However, we cannot expect unanimity of views on all matters. Human society is changing all the time. New scientific discoveries present new challenges, to which different societies must respond differently. On matters of religious belief, for example, no one should expect convergence. Our disagreements over issues like the death penalty, abortion, the nature of democracy, gay rights, animal rights and therapeutic cloning are, in a sense, inevitable and necessary. What we profoundly need is respect for plurality in the world — respect built on the common substrate that defines us as civilized human beings in the twenty-first century. In the nineteenth century, slavery was abolished. In the twentieth century, gender equality became the norm. In this century, we must add more layers to what we share in common. And, upon that shared substrate, we should not only accept diversity, but encourage it. Indeed, as with biological diversity, it is essential for human progress that there should be cultural and political diversity in the world. Without such diversity, our ability to respond to new challenges will be weakened. For all their imperfections, the United Nations and the World Trade Organization (WTO) represent this diversity in unity. At the WTO, the process of multilateral trade negotiations — however complicated and arduous they may be — is still a more civilized method of resolving conflicts and harmonizing national differences than erecting protectionist walls and fighting trade wars. Respecting plurality does not mean that we stop recognizing strengths and weaknesses; that would be hypocrisy. Some cultural values are more suited than others to modern times. Some economic systems are more productive. Some political systems are better able to mobilize the creative energies of their people. But none of us should force our views on others. We should never impose a particular political or economic system on societies with different histories and traditions. What we need instead is an environment that encourages mutual learning and healthy competition. For that, we need to respect one another. As is recognized in the Millennium Development Goals, there is no one-size-fits-all solution to the challenge of human development. When Singapore became independent in 1965, there was no ready solution that fitted us; we had to seek our own way forward. Many countries helped us with aid and advice, and we remain grateful to them. The United Nations Development Programme provided valuable assistance. With no natural resources, we had to organize ourselves in a practical way, add value and be of service to others. Little by little, we worked out pragmatic solutions to our problems. Good governance was a precondition for all our efforts. We were tough on corruption and crime. When, in the 1970s, we witnessed attempts by international drug dealers to target young Singaporeans, our Parliament adopted draconian laws. We were criticized by some of our friends in the Western media, but we persisted, with the support of the majority of Singaporeans, always acting with their consent and in their interests. Now that we have reached a reasonable standard of economic development, other developing countries have approached us for assistance. We feel honoured to be asked. But we prefer them to see Singapore more as an ongoing experiment to be studied than as a model to follow. Every country is different, and each must customize its own solutions. 32 Small countries like Singapore need a stable external environment. We are ardent supporters of international organizations like the United Nations and the WTO, because they give us, together with other countries, a say in global governance. A world in which countries big and small can resolve disputes according to commonly agreed rules is infinitely preferable to one in which might makes right. More than four centuries ago, a wise man from the West visited the East. The Italian Jesuit Matteo Ricci went to China with the goal of converting China to Catholicism. He had a deep respect for the civilization that he wanted to Christianize. Realizing that the only way to impress the Chinese was to interact with them on their own terms, he proceeded to study the Chinese language, to master the Chinese classics and to employ Chinese philosophical concepts in his discourses on Christianity. Instead of talking at the Chinese, he talked to them, expressing concepts to which they could relate. Although Matteo Ricci did not succeed in converting the Chinese, he left behind a lasting legacy, and when he died the Chinese Emperor consented to his burial in China. His tomb, inscribed with his Chinese name, is to be found today in the compound of the Party School of the Beijing Municipal Committee. History is unending. We need wise men like Matteo Ricci from the West and the East, from the South and the North, to help us, through debate and dialogue, prevent a clash of civilizations. Respecting diversity should never reduce us to hypocrisy and cultural relativism, as if all points of view are equally valid. We should never stop trying to influence one another. Here in the United Nations we are always trying to influence one another, but we must always be prepared to see the same issues from the perspectives of others. Here in the United Nations, we have an institution that can help us create this better world.At this time, when I have the honour to take the floor before this august Assembly, above all I would like to express to you, on behalf of the Congolese people as well as on my own behalf, my warm congratulations to Mr. Jean Ping on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly as well as the election of the members of his Bureau. I also take this occasion to congratulate and give my continued support to Mr. Julian Hunte, the President of the previous General Assembly, for the significant quality of the work he accomplished during a difficult international situation. This debate provides me the opportunity to bring the message of my country to the world — a message of peace and national reconciliation — and to express our vision concerning the violent events taking place in the world and the most appropriate way to find lasting solutions to those events. In that respect, looking back at world developments, we can only note and deplore the rise in international terrorism in all its forms with its long line of victims, distress and desolation. This appears to me to be the appropriate time to announce that my country’s commitment to the ratification of all international legal instruments on terrorism is moving into its final phase of adoption. Our aim is to combat that scourge which — I repeat — spares no one. Apart from terrorism, the international community is confronted with the resurgence of other disasters which are just as murderous and devastating and which require us to strengthen our collective efforts. In particular I am thinking of HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other endemic diseases. That list of forgotten diseases should not obscure the immense poverty and the natural disasters that we see throughout the world. Moreover, we must not forget the areas of tension, civil wars and other armed conflicts which increase the misery and hopelessness of humanity and which thus sorely test international peace and security. During the intersessional period, the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been characterized by a process of political transition. In the long term, we plan to organize elections which will enable the Congolese people to freely choose their leaders. In that respect, I would like to point out that that process reached its midway point on 30 June 2004. It has thus entered a decisive phase which requires from all institutions of the transition a redoubling of effort in order to meet the electoral deadlines as laid out in the global agreement. Today we can congratulate ourselves on the following significant progress: the reunification of national territory through the setting up of a land commission under central authority; national reconciliation, symbolized by the presence in the Government of former enemies; and the beginning of the process of integration of the army and the establishment of the national police force. Nevertheless, much remains to be done, including the complete restoration of the authority of the State throughout the country and the establishment of the necessary internal and external conditions for the holding of the aforementioned elections. Thus, taking into account the desire for peace of all of the Congolese people, and the determination expressed many times by the transitional Government to respect the deadlines, it is important that we reinforce, in terms of quality and quantity, the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), whose support of the forces of order will help us put an end to the 30 activism of the militias which continue to sow death and desolation in the eastern part of the country. In addition, given the results obtained by the political players in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the fulfilment of their obligations under the global agreement, we launch an urgent appeal to the international community and ask it to respect its promises and commitments in bringing about the objectives of the transition. The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a peace-loving country, resolutely committed to developing, maintaining and promoting excellent relations with all countries dedicated to peace and justice and particularly, with its neighbours. Also the principle of good neighbourliness, far from being a simple slogan, is for us a living and daily reality. That is why I am happy to see the signature of the terms of reference, establishing a joint verification mechanism on the eastern border of our national territory. This will enable us to rebuild trust in relations in the region, a process which will culminate in the international conference on peace, security and development, scheduled to take place shortly. The other major task in the Great Lakes region remains preventing a recurrence of unfortunate events, such as the massacres of the people in Bukuvu, Ituri and those recently committed in Gatumba, Burundi, during which 160 of our fellow citizens tragically lost their lives. This assassination of Congolese refugees on Burundian soil is the work of the enemies of peace and of peaceful cohabitation in our subregion. The people of Congo are waiting impatiently for the report of the inquiry being prepared under United Nations auspices on this very subject. I solemnly express the Congolese people’s faith in the United Nations, which has stood at our side at the cost of many sacrifices. We firmly believe in its ability to take even more responsibility on its shoulders, with a view to the ideas and principles contained in the Charter, particularly with regard to its process of revitalization and the adaptation of its structures so that it is able to rethink its working methods in order that we will see peace, security and peaceful cohabitation come about among peoples throughout the world. I would like to conclude my statement by assuring the Assembly of our will to bring to a successful conclusion, with the help of the whole of the international community, the process of transition within the set deadlines so that the sons and daughters of the Democratic Republic of the Congo are able to live again in peace and dignity so long denied them and to which they legitimately have the right.Saint Lucia supported your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, Sir, as it shares the view of Member States that you will provide important leadership to this General Assembly. I extend sincere congratulations to you and to the Government and people of your country, Gabon, on behalf of the delegation of Saint Lucia, and on my own behalf, and pledge to work cooperatively with you in our common endeavour. There is a personal note to my pledge of support and cooperation. Just one year ago, this Assembly honoured my country and me by entrusting the leadership of the fifty-eighth session of this body to me. I am fully aware, therefore, of the tremendous responsibility that falls to you as President, and OF the demands and pressures of leadership of this, the United Nations sole universal organ. In a relay of leadership that began some 59 years ago, I have passed the baton to you, assured that this will be a productive and successful fifty-ninth session. My year as President of the General Assembly gave me a keener appreciation of the myriad tasks which the Secretary-General performs in the service of, and to inspire confidence in, the United Nations. The Government and people of Saint Lucia support him in 26 his continuing contribution to our efforts to address the critical issues facing our Organization and our world. The picture of our twenty-first century world is far different from that envisaged in the United Nations Charter. Instead of a world of peace, security and economic and social progress, in which human rights, fundamental freedoms and international law are fully respected, today our world is buffeted by poverty; hunger; the spread of endemic disease, including HIV/ AIDS; conflicts; war; terrorism, and other grave problems. This is so despite the combined effort of the United Nations system and the enormous potential of the Organization to live up to the ideals, principles and purposes of the Charter. The United Nations is passing through a period of intense questioning and doubts as to its capacity and relevance. It is the view of my Government that many of the doubts and questions stem from the continuing challenge posed to the Organization to transform the ideals of the Charter into action. Those questions and doubts have been intensified by the concern that some of the Organization’s most influential and powerful Member States might turn away from multilateralism — the very foundation of the United Nations — and follow the path of unilateral action. We can and we must, stop our unique and indispensable Organization from being battered by the tides of these turbulent times. We must better enable it to address the myriad problems with which peoples and nations are grappling. And we must reaffirm its status as the world’s foremost multilateral organization. But we can only do so through our full commitment and resolve to ensure that the Organization and its Member States live up to the ideals of the Charter. We know that the Charter charges the United Nations to achieve the solution of economic problems cooperatively. That puts the Organization on the front line of what, for many States, particularly those in the developing world, appears to be a very long road to sustainable development. Nowadays, it is a road constructed primarily around globalization and trade liberalization, which have mostly delivered on their promises of economic advancement to developed countries, but have yet to deliver on those promises to many others, mostly developing countries. It cannot be disputed that current inconsistencies and inequities in the global trading system are widening the gap between rich and poor, haves and have-nots. It is not surprising, therefore, that developing countries, particularly in the framework of the World Trade Organization (WTO), are asserting that globalization and trade liberalization should not undercut their sustainable development prospects, and that there ought to be a fair and equitable global trading system. Agricultural subsidies, market access, non-tariff barriers to trade, low or falling commodity prices and special and differential treatment — all those issues beg for constructive dialogue and decisive action, particularly in the interest of the developing world. Specific mandates for trade and development issues may reside in other organizations, including the WTO, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. But the United Nations has a leading role to play in bringing coherence — here I underscore the word coherence — to debate and policy-setting on those issues, in line with its Charter mandates. Its efforts in that area have the full support of my Government. The spate of deadly hurricanes that continue to traverse the Caribbean region, have brought sharply into focus the issues on which small island developing States (SIDS), including Saint Lucia, have urged the United Nations and the international community to act. We have reiterated, for example, that SIDS are vulnerable and that special and differential treatment, fair prices for commodities and development financing are essential to their sustainable development. In just a few short weeks, hurricanes have brought death and destruction throughout the Caribbean region, and, indeed, also to the Bahamas and the United States. There was tragic loss of life in our sister Caribbean countries and territories — 37 in Grenada, 20 in Jamaica; and even now, Haiti is still counting the cost in lives lost. Property and infrastructural damage was immense, particularly in Grenada. Hurricane “Ivan the terrible” destroyed 90 per cent of that country’s physical infrastructure. I say to this Assembly that when a small island developing State loses 90 per cent of its physical infrastructure in the space of a few hours, the challenge to that country is formidable. For Grenada, it is like starting over. Grenada must rebuild its infrastructure, economy, 27 communications systems, hospitals and schools, everything from the ground up to restore the quality of life for its people. But how, and with what resources will it rebuild? The member States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) have made a commitment to Grenada, but can only assist to the extent that their means allow. Given their own resource constraints, how far can that assistance be expected to go? The Government and people of Grenada and of CARICOM are highly appreciative of the condolences expressed in this Hall, and for offers of assistance. But Grenada needs much more. The Government of Saint Lucia calls upon the international community to make a commitment, as a matter of urgency, to the reconstruction of Grenada. We urge the convening, at an early date, of an international donor conference for the purpose of mobilizing the resources required for the reconstruction effort. In keeping with the international commitment to promote the sustainable development of SIDS, Saint Lucia calls upon the development partners and the international donor community to work together with SIDS to address their vulnerability and other critical issues frontally. The International Meeting for the 10- Year Review of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, to be convened in Mauritius in January 2005, gives everyone yet another opportunity to do so. Saint Lucia urges all States, developed and developing, and particularly partners and donors, to be represented at the International Meeting at the highest level. In particular, we urge that commitments to provide resources for the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action, are kept. Indeed, this fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly will be a pivotal one in respect of commitments made internationally, including those made in the critical area of HIV/AIDS. The session is also crucial to positioning us for the 2005 comprehensive review of commitments made in furthering the United Nations development agenda, including the Millennium Development Goals. Even as we prepare for the High-level Plenary that will examine the successes and failures in implementing the outcomes of more than a decade of United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields, the disjuncture between what we have agreed and what we have done in the interest of the peoples of the world becomes self-evident. We must ask ourselves why it is that we continue to fail the poor, the hungry, the sick and the disenfranchised among us, despite the numerous specialized, high-level meetings we have convened to address their condition? And why is it that we appear incapable of meaningful action beyond the boundaries of those meetings? If we cannot bring relief to the vast numbers of marginalized and disadvantaged among us, if we cannot advance growth and development, particularly for developing countries, we can rest assured that we will lose, or continue to lose, the confidence of the people of the world. There is therefore one message we must take into the 2005 high-level event: agreement on outcomes is meaningless if it is not followed by practical and effective implementation. We must act to implement and we must act now. It is asserted that peace and security are not possible without development and that development is not possible without peace and security. Saint Lucia agrees with this point; both are central to the purposes and principles of the Charter. We must, however, remain vigilant that our development agenda is not eclipsed by a single-minded focus on conflict and war, which continue to cast a giant and deadly shadow over our world. The function given to the United Nations — and particularly to the Security Council — for the maintenance of international peace and security is an exceptional one. How effectively the Organization carries out that function is an important determinant of its standing in the eyes of the people who need it most and of world public opinion. Therefore, we must be consistent in our global strategy for world peace and security. Importantly, the United Nations must not be seen as an Organization so mesmerized by crises that it is slow to act decisively to address critical issues of life and death. The action we take, after all, should present our best hope for a more peaceful and more secure world. We know that conflict and war have costs that are incalculable, particularly in human lives, and can have no happy ending. Today, Iraq remains an unsettled, fractured country. The United Nations has a responsibility to the people of Iraq to work with them to restore peace, security and prosperity to their country. In this, the Organization must ultimately take its lead from the people of Iraq; it is only they who can devise uniquely Iraqi solutions to Iraqi problems and 28 determine the kind of future to which they are committed. Regarding another crisis, my Government is disappointed that the road map to peace in the Middle East appears to have been put aside, and hopes that new initiatives will be undertaken urgently towards settling that long-standing situation, which continues to cause so much grief. Every day, news stories and commentaries in the media remind us of the level of violence and perils in our world. The complex and uncertain threat of terrorists and terrorism constitutes a critical factor contributing to the rising tide of violence, death and destruction. Recently, terrorism became a reality for hundreds of victims in the Russian Federation. My Government extends its sympathy to the Government of Russia and to all victims of terrorism and their families worldwide. Even with our best efforts, it is not always possible to know where or when terrorists will strike again, nor can we say with any certainty that current efforts against terrorism have made the world a less dangerous place. We can say, however, that the root causes of terrorism are symptomatic of problems, some seemingly intractable, around the globe; that terrorism is global in its impact; and that its solution must be global. In addressing the problem of terrorism, we must also look to dealing with the hunger, poverty and inequities spoken of by President Lula da Silva of Brazil and many other concerned leaders, which are giving rise to the hopelessness and despair being experienced by millions and millions of people all over the world. Greater efforts must be made to resolve those critical problems. As we survey the enormity of the challenges the United Nations and the global community face today, we must ask ourselves: Is our 59-year old Organization equipped to confront those challenges? There is a current of reform within the Organization. A series of progressive steps were taken during the fifty-eighth session, in particular, to advance revitalization of this Assembly. However, the Assembly still has to demonstrate its ability to reconcile the interests of its member States and to take action to implement the hard choices which revitalization of this important universal forum requires. We must ensure that the gains made are not reversed. During the fifty-eighth session, the debate was also opened on Security Council reform, and some progress was made to lift this matter out of its moribund state. The Security Council must indeed be reformed, so that its actions can carry more weight and acceptance internationally. The Council must be expanded to make it more representative of the generality of the membership, and a way must be found to address the serious concerns surrounding the veto privilege. Recent reform initiatives should impact processes under way and practical recommendations aimed at ensuring that the Security Council is adequate to its mandates, including those that might be taken up at the 2005 high-level plenary meeting. Since the establishment of the United Nations, non-governmental organizations and civil society have worked constructively with this Organization to address pressing global problems. We now have a report on how the relationship might be made more beneficial. It is our hope that the Assembly will carefully consider this matter, as the support of non- governmental organizations and civil society is too important to be taken for granted. The Government and people of Saint Lucia believe that confidence in the United Nations is being restored. We believe that the world’s people expect the Organization to take a leading role in resolving their most pressing problems. We believe that the United Nations can be many things to many people. The Organization has been sorely challenged in recent years, but has shown resolve in rising to the challenge. With an abundance of political will, the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter can triumph. The Government and people of Saint Lucia are inspired by that prospect.Mr. President, I bring you the greetings and the best wishes of the Government and people of Mauritius. It is also a matter of pride and honour to see you preside over this premier world institution. That honour is not only recognition of the contribution of your country, Gabon, in world affairs but also a great moment for our continent, Africa. We are confident that, with your wide experience and vast diplomatic skills, you will successfully steer the work of the Assembly. My delegation pledges its full support to you during your tenure. My delegation would also like to place on record our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his able and excellent leadership of the General 18 Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. As fellow islanders, we derived great satisfaction and pride from his unequalled stewardship. He assumed and discharged the high responsibilities of President of the Assembly with commitment, dedication and great diplomacy. We thank him for his service to the world community. Allow me also to commend the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his relentless efforts and determination to ensure that our Organization continues to play its role effectively in the international arena. This session of the General Assembly is taking place as we prepare ourselves to tackle and face major challenges and developments over the next 12 months. Of particular importance to small island developing States such as my own, 2005 will begin with two major events: the International Meeting for the full and comprehensive review of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action, which will be hosted by Mauritius; and the World Conference on Disaster Reduction, to be held in Japan. Ten years after Barbados, small island developing States continue to face practically the same challenges in their drive to achieve sustainable development. Their small size, fragile ecosystems, geographic isolation and limited resources, compounded by the threats of climate change, rising sea levels and natural disasters, make them particularly vulnerable. While it is a fact that many developing countries face the increasing pressures posed by the combined forces of globalization and trade liberalization, such pressures are even more exacerbating for small island developing States. Their small markets and the limited market access for their products constrain them greatly in their efforts to integrate smoothly into the global economy. They also suffer from natural vulnerabilities to phenomena such as hurricanes, earthquakes and tsunamis. The devastation caused by the recent series of hurricanes in the Caribbean islands demonstrates the extent of our vulnerability. It is true that those vulnerabilities have been recognized in a variety of international forums, but such recognition has yet to crystallize in concrete actions in favour of small island developing States. The precarious situation of our States is of direct concern to the international community as a whole. May we then resolve to take bold initiatives to implement meaningfully the Barbados Programme and to respond to related emerging issues so that small island developing States can build resilience and capacity and be integrated fully into the global economy? Similarly, in the multilateral trading system, we expect the emergence of an environment conducive to enabling our States to improve their competitiveness, their market access and the diversification of their economies. We therefore expect the World Trade Organization to soon establish a work programme for small economies. As a small island developing State, Mauritius is indeed honoured to host the International Meeting. The International Meeting should be not only a collective gathering to reflect on the specificities of our concerns. It should also be a landmark in the history of the major United Nations conferences, with deliverable outcomes and the means necessary for their implementation. We in Mauritius are leaving no stone unturned to make that event truly historic and memorable. It is important that the entire international community participate in that meeting, which, allow me to point out, is a United Nations meeting on small island development States and not a meeting for those States alone. (spoke in French) The work to be undertaken by the small island developing States is based upon sustainable development and the restricted resources available to those countries. How can one not welcome, therefore, the decision taken by the Government of Burkina Faso, host of the next summit of la Francophonie, which has chosen solidarity and sustainable development as the theme of the summit. Our preoccupation with sustainable development — the basis of the Johannesburg Summit — is even stronger in the context of globalization today. Although only a handful of developing island States are French-speaking, we trust that the Summit will highlight the need for us to find, within the international community, ways and means to help small island developing States, which may then become models for sustainable development. (spoke in English) Global warming, and its related effects on climate change, is now an undisputed reality, and islands suffer the brunt of it, even though — let me emphasize this — we are the least responsible for the cause. We believe that the Kyoto Protocol is the most appropriate mechanism for global action now and in the future, to address the issue of global warming. We call, therefore, 19 for its ratification and entry into force, as soon as possible. Africa, home to 34 of the world’s 48 poorest countries, remains an enormous challenge for the United Nations. The deadly spread of HIV and AIDS continues to claim a devastating toll on the continent, particularly in southern Africa. We in Africa are committed to further democratize our societies and give our people a rightful voice in the decision-making process. That is why at the continental level, we are doing all we can, despite our scarce resources, to consolidate the African Union and make it central in our collective bid to grapple with the development concerns of our region. Using that perspective, we have come up with our own home-grown programme, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) in order to attain the ultimate goal that we have fixed for ourselves — the total integration of Africa. Since we launched the African Union Peace and Security Council last May, we have received encouraging support from some of our development partners. I should like to use this platform to urge the international community to support the African Union in that field to enable it to come to grips with the conflicts that continue to divert our attention and meagre resources from our development efforts. In addressing the issue of conflicts on the continent, the African Union has amply demonstrated that it means business, and any assistance it gets from the international community can only help it to achieve its goals. But let me hasten to say that the African Union’s involvement in peace processes should not distract the United Nations Security Council from its primary responsibility to maintain peace and security in Africa. Indeed, the Security Council should not allow itself to be perceived as being selective in its approach with regard to conflicts in various parts of the world. Experiences in the Great Lakes region and in West Africa have shown that the combined efforts of the Security Council and the African Union can bring tangible results. Before I leave this part of my statement, let me refer to the unjust treatment that continues to be meted out to the Saharawi people who are still struggling for their right to self-determination. It is the duty of this world body to ensure a speedy conclusion of that matter. In this regard, my delegation reiterates its support for the Settlement Plan and any other political initiative acceptable to the parties concerned that will help to take the process forward for a durable and sustainable solution. The Saharawi people deserve that commitment from us. As this Assembly is aware, Mauritius has always favoured a bilateral approach in our resolve to restore our exercise of sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago which, prior to independence from the United Kingdom, was unlawfully detached from our territory, in violation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), and Assembly resolutions 2066 (XX), 2232 (XXI) and 2357 (XXII). Such bilateral approaches have unfortunately not yielded any result so far and certain recent regrettable unilateral actions by the United Kingdom have not been helpful. While we shall continue to favour a settlement of the matter through dialogue, we shall use all avenues open to us in order to exercise our full sovereign rights over the Chagos Archipelago. The Assembly should also note that this issue has a tragic human dimension. Before Mauritius acceded to its independence, all the inhabitants of the Chagos were forced to leave the land of their birth, where they had lived for several generations. The plight of those inhabitants must now be comprehensively addressed. In the same context, my delegation looks forward to the resumption of dialogue with the French Government over Tromelin island. Mauritius is a firm believer and, indeed, a keen player in regional cooperation and integration, not as an end in itself but as a sure means to enable us to integrate the global economy. We consider regional cooperation as a necessary step to enable Africa to benefit from globalization. We have therefore spared no effort to promote regional cooperation. Since the early 1980s we in Mauritius, have been playing a pro- active role in advancing the objectives of the Abuja Treaty. Mauritius is a very active member of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) and of the South African Development Community (SADC). As the new Chair of SADC, we look forward to working very closely with all our fellow member States in advancing the objectives of the organization, promoting community building through regional integration and aligning national policies for regional cooperation so that they stay on course in the globalization process. We will also endeavour to forge a strong relationship between SADC and its 20 development partners as well as with other subregional, continental and multilateral organizations. After the failure of the WTO Ministerial Conference at Cancún, the successful outcome of the July 2004 General Council meeting has come as a ray of hope to put the trade talks back on track. The July package of frameworks and other agreements that the WTO members approved will greatly enhance the chances for a successful completion of the Doha Development Agenda negotiations. We therefore welcome the decision adopted by the WTO General Council to fulfil the development dimensions of the Doha Development Agenda, which places the needs and interests of developing and least developed countries at the heart of the Doha Agenda work programme. In that context, let me make an appeal for a meaningful synergy to be established among the development agencies and other United Nations institutions, including the Bretton Woods institutions, in order to ensure that developing countries develop their capacity to increase their share of world trade as a necessary pathway to prosperity. The situation in the Middle East remains extremely preoccupying for all freedom-loving nations and peoples. We go on speaking of the need for a comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East, without realizing that each year the peace and security situation in the region is growing worse. Over the past year, we witnessed more targeted assassinations, increased terrorist acts, daily recriminations from both sides and an expansion of settlement activities. The illegal construction of a wall by Israel in occupied East Jerusalem and the rest of the occupied Palestinian territories has worsened an already complex situation. Almost two years ago the road map called for a final and comprehensive settlement of the Israel- Palestinian conflict by 2005. The year 2005 is at our doorstep and we are still grappling with how to put the derailed peace process back on track. We believe that the road map remains the only viable option for peace in the region. We call on both Israel and Palestine to exercise maximum restraint, undertake confidence- building measures and create the appropriate environment, with the help of the Quartet, to implement the road map. My delegation believes that what is needed today is not a wall, but a political solution and a renewed commitment from the international community that would resolve the conflict altogether. Only the creation of the much-awaited Palestinian State, existing side by side with Israel with secured and recognized borders, can bring peace and stability to the Middle East. The political process in Iraq reached an important milestone last June with the handing over of authority to the Iraqi Interim Government. My delegation believes that the holding of national elections early next year, as required by Security Council resolution 1546 (2004), will give the people of Iraq a unique opportunity to take the destiny of their country into their own hands. However, the current security situation in Iraq is very disturbing. My delegation condemns all acts of violence that can disrupt Iraq’s political and economic transition. The international community must be fully engaged in its efforts to rebuild a safe, democratic and peaceful Iraq. Given the potential threat posed by nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction, it is a matter of serious concern that we still have not been able to find common ground to initiate a process leading to complete disarmament. Significant differences still persist among parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We once again appeal to all Member States to translate their stated commitments to the cause of disarmament into action. Mauritius supports and implements fully the international disarmament treaties such as the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention and has always supported the various United Nations resolutions related to the consolidation of those regimes, including resolution 1540 (2004), which focuses on non-proliferation issues. Along with our fight against weapons of mass destruction, we should also stay the course against the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, which have been the weapons of choice in recent conflicts, particularly in Africa. Terrorist acts continue to create fear and havoc among peaceful nations and lead to the loss of lives, particularly among innocent civilians, including women and children. We should therefore reflect on the effectiveness of the international response to terrorism. It is becoming increasingly evident that the war against international terrorism cannot be won by military might alone. Several reports submitted to this Assembly have already amply demonstrated that 21 problems such as poverty, social inequality, unemployment and illiteracy constitute breeding grounds for terrorism. Genuine international cooperation is therefore needed to comprehensively address the root causes of terrorism. Allow me to share some thoughts with respect to the future of our Organization. The world emerged from the Second World War resolved to ensure peace among nations, and the United Nations was born with that vision firmly in mind. Now, more than half a century later, in full recognition of the drastic and far- reaching changes that have transformed our world, there is full consensus for a reform of our Organization. There is indeed general agreement that the current structure of the Security Council needs to be reviewed to reflect the new realities of the world. We firmly believe that a greater commitment has to be demonstrated by every member of the Organization in order to reach an agreement on a reformed Security Council based on wider representation, transparency and equitable geographical distribution with the inclusion of developing countries from Africa, Asia and Latin America as permanent members. Here, let me reiterate our conviction that India fully deserves to have that status. In that respect, I need to underscore the need for small island States, which are scattered over all the oceans of the world, to have an adequate voice in the Council. It is therefore our sincere hope that the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change appointed by the Secretary-General will make concrete and practical recommendations to make the United Nations more credible and responsive to the expectations of people in every corner of the globe. The high-level plenary meeting, which is to be held next year, would also be an opportunity for us to take stock of progress made in respect to the goals set in the major United Nations conferences and summits. Mauritius continues to be an active supporter of the United Nations in its efforts to save succeeding generations from war and suffering and to promote social progress and better standards of life. Mauritius believes that a strengthened United Nations, evolving within the framework of a credible multilateral system, is the only effective instrument at the disposal of the international community to bring order and ensure the coherence of international economic, social and environmental policies.I would like to join previous speakers in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I also wish to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, for his exemplary stewardship of the Assembly during his presidency of the fifty-eighth session. At the Millennium Summit, Member States committed themselves to a shared vision of global solidarity and common security. We reaffirmed our faith in the United Nations and its Charter as indispensable for a more peaceful, secure and just world. As we have entered the new century we have done our best to maintain the vital importance of international law, so that all countries may be able to count on the Organization in their hour of need and so that, in turn, the United Nations can fulfil what the world expects from it. Some of our actions sought to protect millions of innocent people, especially women and children, who still fall victim to brutal armed conflicts. Others endeavoured to establish a more equitable world economy, where all countries must have equal chances at fair competition. Azerbaijan is making its own contribution to the strengthening of global and regional security. As an active member of the global coalition against international terrorism, Azerbaijan is faithfully cooperating, bilaterally and within multilateral frameworks, to suppress this evil that continues to bring death and suffering to innocent peoples. Azerbaijan is among the countries that have suffered directly from the consequences of armed conflicts on its territory. In reality those conflicts are interlinked, and we have no other choice but to face them in cooperation and unity. There should be no room for double standards. Since the very day it became a member of the United Nations, Azerbaijan has constantly drawn the attention of the international community to the conflict 7 between Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorno- Karabakh and to the occupation by Armenia of Azerbaijani territories. Azerbaijan expected the United Nations to compel the aggressor to move out of its land and to allow the expelled Azerbaijani population to return to their homes. I should like to recall that, in 1993, the Security Council unanimously adopted four resolutions — resolutions 822 (1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993) — in response to Armenia’s occupation of sovereign Azerbaijani territories. Those resolutions confirmed that the region of Nagorno-Karabakh was part of Azerbaijan, resolutely called for respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan and its internationally recognized borders, and underlined the inadmissibility of the use of force for the purpose of acquiring territory. The resolutions demanded an immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of occupying forces from all occupied areas of Azerbaijan and called for the establishment of conditions for the safe return of displaced people to their places of permanent residence. None of those resolutions — which were intended to restore justice and peace and the territorial integrity of Azerbaijan — has been implemented by Armenia, which never respected or recognized the fundamental principles of international law contained in the resolutions that laid down the basis for the settlement of the conflict. Nagorno-Karabakh and seven other regions of Azerbaijan, which make up 20 per cent of the territory of Azerbaijan, have been occupied by Armenia for more than 10 years. As a result of the policy of ethnic cleansing conducted by Armenia, more than 1 million of Azerbaijan’s people have become refugees or internally displaced persons. The silence of the Security Council has had a devastating impact on the resettlement process. Armenia has ignored the resolutions and has attempted to consolidate the results of its military aggression — and it has not been punished for it. Armenia consequently launched an outrageous policy involving massive illegal settlement of an Armenian population in occupied Azerbaijani territories. That also is a blatant violation of international law, and in particular of the 1949 Fourth Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War. Moreover, the situation has deteriorated, with those territories being used for drug trafficking, arms transfers, the harbouring of terrorists, illegal economic activities and smuggling. The occupied Azerbaijani territories have become a kind of grey zone out of the control of Azerbaijan’s Government and free from any international monitoring. The self-proclaimed, non-recognized so-called Nagorno-Karabakh republic is a constant threat to peace and security in the whole region. Armenian aggressors and Nagorno-Karabakh separatists are also exploiting natural resources in the occupied Azerbaijani territories and are attempting to engage overseas companies in their illegal business. I call upon Member States to take all necessary measures to make their nationals and companies respect international law and to prevent them from illegal activities on the territory of our country. For its part, Azerbaijan will undertake all necessary legal and practical measures to hold those companies accountable for participation in the stealing of the natural wealth belonging to a sovereign nation. Furthermore, Armenia is falsifying history and misappropriating the cultural and architectural heritage of the Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. Religious and historical monuments, ancient manuscripts and other cultural properties have been destroyed, refashioned, plundered or removed. The process of political settlement of the conflict that has been conducted within the Minsk Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) during the last 12 years has thus far yielded no results. No serious consideration has been given by the Minsk Group to the implementation of the Security Council’s resolutions, to assessing the situation on the ground or to the illegal activities carried out by Armenia in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. It is obvious that, under the current passive and silent attitude of the United Nations, the Security Council, the OSCE and the Minsk Group, and without strong pressure from the international community, Armenia will not abandon its aggressive and destructive stance. The illegal actions of Armenia in occupied Azerbaijani territories and its position in the negotiating process prove that Armenia is not intent on finding a solution to the problem. Rather, it intends to further prolong the negotiations and to consolidate the results of its aggression, while trying ultimately to impose a fait-accompli-based settlement. I wish to stress from this podium that a settlement of this issue must be based only on international law and democracy, not on ethnic cleansing and the de 8 facto annexation of the territory of a sovereign State. Azerbaijan will never accept the occupation of its territory, the violation of its territorial integrity or the results of ethnic cleansing. The return of Azerbaijan’s displaced population to their homes remains one of our key priorities in the process of settling the conflict. But even before our expelled people, refugees and internally displaced persons come back home, there is still an urgent need for all the relevant United Nations agencies, donor countries and international humanitarian organizations to be actively involved in addressing the suffering of the most affected part of population. The Government of Azerbaijan does not spare time, effort or financial resources to do its part; but given the scale of displacement, that is not sufficient. Burden-sharing between the Government and relevant international organizations is crucial. In addition to purely material support, we also request a renewal of international attention to the problem and better coordination on the part of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, as well as efforts by all international organizations. We expect a more responsive strategy by the United Nations with regard to the state of the forgotten humanitarian crisis in Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan is fully committed to the objectives of poverty eradication and to the promotion of good governance. On that basis, and as a result of the measures we have undertaken, we are currently seeing increased economic performance and growth. Azerbaijan is making its contribution to the development of transregional cooperation. We are also promoting such transportation and communication networks as the Transport Corridor Europe Caucasus Asia project and the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan and Baku- Tbilisi-Erzerum oil and gas pipelines. Those projects will ensure predictable access for the exports of land- locked countries to world and regional markets. The United Nations has to adapt itself in order to successfully tackle all the challenges it faces. The long-standing issue of United Nations reform needs finally to be resolved. The inability of the Security Council to cope with problems, and particularly those related to armed conflicts, is obvious. The new Security Council should be more representative, responsible and democratic. Its working methods must be more transparent and able to respond more rapidly to the new challenges, risks and threats of the twenty- first century. Developing viable mechanisms for the implementation of Security Council resolutions is also a pressing issue. It is the obligation of all of us to collectively apply effective approaches to current problems, thereby enabling a stable environment for the sustainable growth and democratic development of nations. That can only be achieved through strengthening the norms and principles of international law and through friendly relations and mutually beneficial cooperation among States.Mr. President, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your assumption of the important post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. Let me also 21 pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte for his highly professional and fruitful work accomplished at the helm of the General Assembly. A year ago the Secretary-General stressed in this Hall that the United Nations had reached a fork in the road. This is still true today. We have a long list of problems, but we do not have a clear vision of how to deal with them. To choose the right way, to solve a conflict between wishes and resources, between desirable and achievable, we should concentrate on priorities. Let me outline Ukraine’s vision of the most important issues on which the United Nations should focus. The tragedy in the Russian city of Beslan and other recent terrorist attacks leave no doubt that fight against terrorism is truly the major priority. We express our sympathy to the victims and strongly condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. The underlying reason for terrorism is to create chaos, to disrupt the global system of peace and security established and promoted by our Organization. Thus, we have to act collectively. We have to overcome old prejudices and to establish a spirit of confidence and a new culture of international cooperation, which would embrace the whole spectrum of political, law enforcement and security instruments. Creation of a new and efficient system of information exchange on terrorism will help prevent new attacks and save priceless human lives. We support the views expressed by previous speakers on the need for a broader approach to address the complex and interdependent nature of security. To prevent terrorist acts and to eliminate the roots of terrorism, the United Nations must promote better understanding, a global rapprochement between various civilizations and religions. There are universal values of peace and security which are a cornerstone of our Organization and which can serve as a basis for a new atmosphere of tolerance in the world. Ukraine, as a country actively participating in the stabilization forces in Iraq, is concerned by the terrorist insurgency and continuing violence there. Although the situation in Iraq remains difficult, there are some positive trends. Ukraine welcomes the transition of power to the Iraqi people and the formation of the interim government. It is important to ensure effective implementation of the timetable for a comprehensive political transition process in the country, particularly through the holding of free and fair elections, with the highest standards possible under the current circumstances. Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) clearly envisages a central role for the United Nations in a comprehensive political transition in the country and in the reconstruction process. However, the Iraqi crisis and the international fight against terrorism have revealed the need to strengthen the United Nations as a key instrument for safeguarding international peace and security. Institutional reform of the United Nations, including the Security Council, which should become truly representative and balanced, is an important task. We understand the reasons behind the suggestions to enlarge the Council in both its permanent and non- permanent membership, and we are ready to carefully consider relevant proposals. In this respect, Ukraine attaches primary importance to the allocation of an additional non-permanent seat to the Group of Eastern European States. But reform must not only involve some structural changes. We should not have to embark on reform every 20 years when a new balance of power emerges in the international arena. Universal criteria and a common understanding of threats and challenges are necessary to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of our Organization in the twenty-first century. We fully share the view expressed by the Secretary-General at the beginning of the general debate that the rule of law should be a priority both at home and in international affairs. We look forward to the outcome of the deliberations of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. United Nations authority should be increased, particularly through its greater involvement in conflict prevention and resolution. As President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine emphasized, conflict prevention should be pivotal to the philosophy of United Nations work in the new millennium. In our region, frozen conflicts in Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Nagorny-Karabakh and Transdnistria need to be solved as soon as possible. As one of the major contributors to United Nations peacekeeping operations and the largest in Europe, Ukraine is deeply concerned by the increasing danger to the lives of peacekeeping personnel. We 22 stand for the universal application of the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel and call upon all Member States to abide strictly by its provisions. The role of the United Nations in the field of non- proliferation and disarmament should also be strengthened. This year Ukraine will mark the tenth anniversary of its accession to the Treaty on Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Its landmark decision to eliminate the third largest nuclear arsenal and to relinquish nuclear capability has significantly enhanced the international non-proliferation regime and global security. We hope that Ukraine’s positive example will be followed by other countries that now entertain the erroneous idea that they can protect their security through access to nuclear weapons. All achievements by the international community may come to naught if our populations succumb to HIV/AIDS. This disease has killed more people annually than have all armed conflicts on the planet added together. We highly appreciate the work carried out by the United Nations, its specialized agencies and by the Secretary-General personally to combat this pandemic. Ukraine supports the initiative to hold a high- level meeting in June next year to review progress in the implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS. At the same time, we believe that millions of our infected fellow citizens need concrete action. We are convinced that HIV/AIDS poses a fundamental challenge, not only to human health and well-being, but also to the very security of our world. In this regard, we attach particular significance to the Organization’s declaration of a global emergency alert in the fight against HIV/AIDS. The main focus must be placed on prevention and treatment of the disease. As Ukraine President Kuchma stressed last year at the high-level meeting on HIV/AIDS, we need to elaborate a clear system to encourage sponsorship of medical projects as well as to expand the educational campaign on preventing the pandemic. In the same vein, a leading role should be played by the mass media. Ukraine has launched an active mass media campaign with the involvement of all social groups, and we are ready to lead a regional media movement in the prevention of HIV/AIDS. Another pressing problem is trafficking in persons, especially women and children. Ukraine spares no effort in addressing this issue. This year Ukraine became a party to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its two Optional Protocols. However, tackling those issues requires a comprehensive approach and the close cooperation of the international community. We need to create a truly functioning and efficient mechanism to combine the efforts of the countries of origin, transit and destination. Effective strategies to combat human trafficking should be based on both law enforcement measures and improvement of the economic and social conditions of potential victims. Ukraine welcomes the appointment of the Commission on Human Rights Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially in women and children, and stands ready to render every support in implementing the respective mandates. Last year the world observed the seventieth anniversary of the horrible genocidal famine, which took the lives of over 7 million Ukrainian people. Taking this opportunity I wish once again to express our gratitude to all States that signed the joint statement on the seventieth anniversary of the great famine of 1932-1933 in Ukraine — Holodomor — or whose parliaments adopted acts of condemnation and sympathy, and to all organizations and individuals that took part in the events to honour the victims of the great famine. The international community must thoroughly study that phenomenon in order to prevent its recurrence. We hope that the newly appointed Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on the Prevention of Genocide will also duly focus on this issue. Almost two decades have passed since Ukraine was struck by another tragedy — the Chernobyl disaster. Ukraine together with other interested delegations put forth an initiative to hold, within the framework of the sixtieth session of United Nations General Assembly in spring 2006, a special plenary meeting to commemorate the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. Ukraine has fulfilled its commitments related to the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. What needs to be done today is to construct a new safe confinement. We expect that funds for this purpose promised by the Group of Seven in 1995 will be fully provided. 23 Chernobyl remains a searing wound, which proves every day how fragile our world is and how easily nature can be damaged. No one should doubt our commitment to the preservation of our environment. That is why Ukraine is so sensitive to environmental protection, whether it concerns building of roads, construction of new power plants or the reopening of a navigable waterway. It was fashionable some years ago to criticize the United Nations for its inability to solve the most important problems. Today we all come to this Assembly with the ever-stronger conviction that there is no alternative to our Organization. I am confident that despite all obstacles and doubts of the past, we can act for the attainment of the United Nations goals that are common to all of us. We can act swiftly, collectively and with a vision.On behalf of the Government and people of the Republic of Suriname, I extend to you my sincere congratulations on your unanimous election to guide the work of this fifty-ninth session of the United Nations General Assembly. We are convinced that the wealth of diplomatic experience and expertise you bring to this body will assist you in a meaningful way during your presidency. I can assure you that the Government of the Republic of Suriname and its Permanent Mission stand ready to cooperate with you in the coming months. It also gives me great pleasure to salute your predecessor, the President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, a fellow Caribbean national. Mr. Hunte’s sterling and dedicated leadership has made all of us, especially those from the Caribbean region, proud. To Secretary-General Kofi Annan we offer our continued support. We acknowledge the importance of his remarks at the start of the General Assembly and share his views regarding the application of the rule of law, both domestically and internationally, as the guiding principle in strengthening and preserving democracy, defending and promoting human rights and establishing peace. We are keenly aware of the importance of the United Nations, as the supreme multilateral institution, in advancing multilateral diplomacy for the benefit of humanity in a world in which we continue to struggle to achieve peace, security and prosperity. The international community expressed some time ago the need for a more effective and efficient Organization that would be better able to address the many challenges our world faces today. Under the inspiring leadership of your predecessor, Mr. President, the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly achieved the reordering of the agenda of the General Assembly aimed at its further rationalization and at facilitating the uniform and coherent discussion of development issues in the plenary and the main committees of the General Assembly. We must keep that powerful momentum for change alive and take it a step further. We must ensure that we do not regress from the results achieved and ensure that there is continued progress in these areas. The reform of the United Nations Security Council remains one of the vital objectives of the restructuring efforts of the Organization. In our view, a restructured Council must be a reflection of the membership of the Organization, improving its level of transparency and making it more democratic. The Council must be more inclusive and comprehensive in its functioning, as security matters, because of their multidimensional nature, affect the life and livelihood of each and every one of us. The membership of a restructured Council and, equally, its current composition must ensure that the Council upholds the fundamental principles of the Charter while retaining its main focus: the maintenance of international peace and security. It is very disturbing to observe that, despite intensive diplomatic and political undertakings, peace and tranquillity in several regions of the world are still a major concern and challenge that threaten the democratic underpinnings of society. The time may be opportune for the United Nations to spearhead the process of involving relevant interest groups and civil society at large in the different countries of a particular region to assist in the establishment of sustained peace in that region. 12 We express our concern about the ongoing political difficulties in the Middle East and in Africa, resulting in violence and the displacement of many persons. The political crises in our own hemisphere — especially in Venezuela and Haiti — have attracted much attention and have been the subject of many efforts by the United Nations and the Organization of American States. We look forward to continuing and sustainable political stability in Venezuela which, we hope, will promote an environment of normalcy and progress. The political situation in our sister nation, the Republic of Haiti, remains of great concern. Since its inception as the first black independent republic, Haiti has become the symbol of struggle and hardship, but also of courage, survival and solidarity. That long- battered country and its population need more profound, constructive and long-term assistance to improve the living conditions of the people of Haiti. Earlier, I referred briefly to the multidimensional nature of security and the need to give due attention to social, economic and environmental threats. In recent weeks, the Caribbean region, which is home to economies that are already vulnerable, has felt the force of nature in the most extreme manner. While several countries have been battered — such as Jamaica, the Bahamas, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago and several other islands — one country in particular has been severely damaged: Grenada. I join all the other nations that have already done so in calling for immediate as well as long-term financial and technical assistance for the Government and people of Grenada. The Government of Suriname offers it condolences to the families of the victims in Caribbean countries, as well as in affected states of the United States of America, where various hurricanes in recent weeks have caused considerable damage and loss of life. Another global threat that has an impact on every country emanates from the activities of terrorists, terrorist groups and State-sponsored terrorism. The world will never forget the images of horrifying terrorist acts such as the one that took place in Beslan this year, where hundreds of persons, mostly children, lost their lives. The Government of Suriname remains committed to the fight against terrorism. We also continue to believe that an effective and successful battle can be waged through a comprehensive approach. The High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, which was established by the Secretary- General with a view to receiving a global report on international security, is a result of the renewed interest in international security concerns. We hope that that review will be one that will produce result-oriented objectives and measures. Suriname believes that development issues such as the eradication of poverty and hunger and the protection of the environment are among the extremely important aspects to be addressed if one wishes to obtain lasting and comprehensive security, which encompasses, inter alia, military, political, environmental, economic and social developmental aspects. Up to the present day, globalization has not delivered on the promise of vast development opportunities on a global scale. While we have to acknowledge that globalization has created opportunities, those opportunities have been restricted to just a few societies. The opportunities that arise from development in the world today are, unfortunately, not within the reach of all humankind. The current world order is still characterized by economic disparities, unequal trade regimes, income inequalities between and within countries, social injustice and declining opportunities for hundreds of millions. Globalization can only become a real option for economic development if it becomes all-inclusive and if we give it a human face by paying particular attention to the negative impact it has on social progress. Suriname continues to believe that the United Nations must regain its importance in the areas of global development, if we want to be successful in our efforts to eradicate poverty, achieve social and economic development and stem the spread of communicable diseases such as HIV/AIDS. The meeting on the subject of poverty organized by the Government of Brazil under the auspices of the United Nations points to a common awareness of the fact that the global development agenda must be advanced and that, therefore, the international community must move from political will to action and from commitments to implementation, granting humanity as a whole an opportunity to develop. 13 The upcoming 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action will provide small island developing States with a momentous opportunity to promote their priority interests and concerns for the next phase of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. While we anticipate that that comprehensive review will result in concrete proposals to advance the implementation process, we also expect that the review exercise will take place in a spirit of partnership. The upcoming meeting in Mauritius should therefore generate greatly needed support, genuine commitment and, moreover, the political will of all partners in the process of furthering the cause of achieving true benefits and progress for the many people living in small island developing States. In conclusion, I want to stress the need for the United Nations to become more effective in dealing with the current challenges in terms of terrorism and security. At the same time, we must remain vigilant in defending and strengthening democracy and democratic values and institutions, so as to create a stable political and social environment for progress and sustainable development. We also need to continue, and intensify, our battle against HIV/AIDS, illegal drug trafficking and crime. Although globalization has opened up opportunities, it is also our collective responsibility to ensure that international trade liberalization does not result in social and economic marginalization, especially of smaller and vulnerable economies. To achieve those objectives, the United Nations has to continue its restructuring process and become not only the principal global platform in theory, but also demonstrate its capabilities to act in practice. It is in that context that my Government considers the United Nations the most appropriate global multilateral institution for the advancement of the living standards of humankind as a whole and for achieving sustainable global peace and security.Let me start by congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty- ninth session of the General Assembly. Your election is a tribute not only to yourself, but also to your country, Gabon, with which Botswana enjoys the most cordial of relations. 1 assure you of the full support and cooperation of my delegation in the discharge of your onerous duties and responsibilities. We also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia, for his stewardship of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Saint Lucia is another country with which Botswana enjoys excellent relations. Come to think of it, we can understand why countries of the world can be friendly with each other, as Botswana is friendly to them all. Our words of congratulations are addressed also to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his visionary leadership of the Organization and for his enduring spirit in the face of the complex challenges that the United Nations is called upon to address across our common universe. I take this opportunity to join other delegations in extending our condolences to the Government and the people of the Russian Federation on the tragic loss of life in Beslan. There can never be any justification for such a savage attack on innocent children, men and women. Botswana joins the rest of the international community in condemning that horrendous act. We also extend our sympathies and condolences to our dear brothers and sisters in the Caribbean and the southern part of the United States of America on the loss of life and the destruction of property caused by recent hurricanes. We are gathered here today, 12 months before the first review of the Millennium Declaration, an unprecedented compact made by world leaders to unite in action in addressing the problems bedevilling humanity. It is our hope that we will use this gathering to reflect on whether we have done enough to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. We have to ask ourselves, individually and collectively, whether the enthusiasm and political commitment with which we endorsed the Declaration is being translated into programmes and projects. Simply put, we must be ready to answer, hopefully in the affirmative, whether we are doing enough to meet the targets that we set for ourselves for the first five years of this millennium. Let us recall that pessimists proclaimed the Millennium Summit a talking shop and poured scorn on its intended outcome. Are we doing enough to prove them wrong? We owe it to the millions of our people who look up to us to mitigate their suffering. Thus far, the available evidence suggests that our performance has been disappointing. Unfortunately, time is not on our side. There is need to act with vigour if we are to meet our commitments. My delegation is fully aware that a multiplicity of factors combined to constrain and to thwart some of our efforts in the past few years. There is no doubt, for instance, that major international conflicts, such as the war in Iraq, have been a drag on the international community’s efforts to focus on the Goals. As a result of the war, oil prices have skyrocketed, putting tremendous pressure on the world economy, and in particular on the vulnerable economies of developing countries. In spite of those challenges, we have abiding faith in the human spirit, and therefore remain convinced that it is not beyond the capacity of the international community to implement those ideals. The Millennium Declaration recognized that poverty eradication is fundamental to achieving sustainable development, but many of our people still live in conditions of abject poverty. The alleviation of poverty and its eventual eradication therefore remain a top priority for us. Official development assistance levels continue to fall in real terms to below the agreed target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. I must, however, commend the few countries that have met that target. They have demonstrated that the target is realistic and achievable. The continuing debt burden is contributing significantly to the failure to deal effectively with the problem of poverty. Most developing countries have undertaken courageous measures to implement painful structural reforms. The commendable steps taken to introduce sound macroeconomic management and principles of good governance deserve an urgent, positive and appropriate response. It must be acknowledged that some of the reforms can, in the short term, worsen the plight of the poor for a very long time before the benefits of the sacrifices are realized. 8 Structural reforms have not been confined to budgetary matters alone. They cover the whole economic spectrum, including the creation of an environment conducive to the growth of the private sector and development, as well as to the flow of foreign direct investment. A number of developing countries have promulgated legislative and regulatory frameworks to stimulate greater private sector participation in their economies. It is only natural, given the scope of the reform measures, that developing countries should expect some positive reaction in the form of flows of foreign direct investments, which at the moment are, regrettably, still very low. In the area of trade, we are concerned about the slow progress in multilateral trade negotiations. As developing countries, we have more to gain from a more just, fairer and rule-based international trading system that would facilitate the integration of our economies into the global economy. We urge the major players in those negotiations to show a greater sense of urgency and commitment. We are concerned at the fact that, in spite of the strong commitments expressed at the Millennium Summit, almost half of the people in sub-Saharan Africa continue to survive on a dollar a day. That reflects no change in the statistics of 1990. One hundred twenty-one million children are still out of school; and the under-5 mortality rate is still as high as 174 per 1,000 live births. The resources provided to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic remain inadequate, yet we all agree that HIV/AIDS is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Combating the scourge of HIV/AIDS must therefore remain a high priority for action, because the epidemic has a debilitating impact on everything that we do to improve the human condition. In 2003, it was reported that about 40 million people around the world were living with the virus, and that well over 26 million of them were in sub-Saharan Africa alone. The epidemic has killed over 2.3 million people in sub- Saharan Africa, out of a total of 3 million people who died of AIDS-related illnesses around the world. In Botswana, our various intervention programmes are beginning to bear fruit. We are indebted to our friends internationally, whose partnership, support, assistance and, indeed, solidarity have combined to save lives and give hope to many of our people. However, a lot still needs to be done. Our immediate challenge is the lack of capacity to provide the antiretroviral therapy programme to all who need assistance. We shall therefore continue to rely on the international community for consistent and assured support, if we are to assist our people in time. International peace and security are under constant threat. Our collective memory appears to be failing to draw appropriate lessons, even from the recent horrors of conflicts in Rwanda, Afghanistan and the Balkans. Millions of people continue to suffer and die needlessly in Africa and elsewhere because of unnecessary conflicts. It is once again Africa that has had to bear the brunt of those conflicts. We are concerned by the protracted conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan, Burundi and Côte d’Ivoire. As Africans, we accept our responsibility to find solutions to those conflicts. That is why we established the Peace and Security Council of the African Union in May of this year. In its short history, the Council has already deployed peacekeepers in Burundi and peace monitors in the Darfur region of Sudan, and has sent mediators and peace envoys to help in negotiating solutions to conflicts elsewhere on the continent. One thing is clear: Africa is an integral part of the international community. The problems of Africa are global problems. We cannot isolate ourselves, nor be isolated from the rest of the world, and be expected to single-handedly find solutions to such conflicts. We need consistent and continued international support. In that regard, we acknowledge the important and commendable role that the United Nations is playing in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire and Burundi. The peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is at a critical stage. The international community has a duty and a responsibility to assist the Government and people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the search for national reconciliation and a lasting political settlement to the problems facing that country. It is our hope that the international community will provide the necessary financial and material support to ensure the success of the international conference on the Great Lakes region, which is to be held in Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania, at the end of this year. 9 In Côte d’Ivoire, everything possible must be done to maintain peace and stability, as well as to promote national reconciliation, by ensuring that the parties accept the Government of National Reconciliation. Regarding the situation in the Darfur region of Sudan, the international community must take urgent measures to arrest the deteriorating security and humanitarian situation in that country. The people of Darfur should be assisted to return to their homes in safety and dignity. We urge the Government of Sudan to be receptive to the proposals contained in the Secretary-General’s report and, above all, take due cognizance of Security Council resolution 1564 (2004), and in particular to facilitate the speedy delivery by the international community of much-needed humanitarian assistance. We are troubled by the escalating conflict in the Middle East, which is a serious threat to international peace and security. How long can humanity stand the sight of human suffering that we see daily on our television screens? For how long can generations of mothers mourn the loss of their sons in combat? For how long should succeeding generations fight wars that their forebears fought? We ask those involved in those conflicts, descendants of old civilizations that made enormous contributions to the growth and development of modern civilization, to live and let live and to find in themselves the courage to resolve their differences through dialogue rather than through indiscriminate violence. Terrorism is one of the greatest challenges to international peace and security. No one country can defeat that scourge, which has caused the loss of many lives across the world. The activities of terrorists have become very complex and sophisticated. We need united, stronger and concerted action by all the countries of the world to defeat that scourge, which knows no boundaries. In conclusion, I reaffirm the importance that Botswana attaches to the revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform of the Security Council. We commend the President of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly for his practical proposals in that area. We were disappointed that the Assembly could not reach consensus on those proposals. My delegation will contribute in whatever small way it can to the building of such consensus. Regarding the reform of the Security Council, we are concerned that, after 11 years of consultations, not much progress has been achieved. The solution to that vexing question rests on the ability of Member States, in particular the permanent members of the Council, to muster the political will to compromise. We should not tolerate this paralysis any longer. It is therefore my hope that action will be taken at this session to continue the process of democratizing the Security Council and make it more representative of the membership of the United Nations. Finally, I once again make a special appeal to the general Membership of the Organization to do more to facilitate the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. We must do all we can to transform hope into reality. Together we have the resources, the skills and the science and technology to make the Declaration have meaning in the lives of our peoples. Botswana is committed to doing its part.I am overwhelmed with a great sense of joy at seeing Mr. Ping preside over the General Assembly at this fifty-ninth session. My first words are thus to convey to him, on behalf of my Government and on my own behalf, the most heartfelt congratulations upon his election. Our satisfaction springs from the great esteem in which the Angolan people hold your country and from the strong ties of friendship and fraternity that unite us. I would also like to congratulate your predecessor for the dynamic manner in which he carried out his mandate. 53 At a time when the world is confronting the horrors of violence, poverty and hunger, the members of the Assembly once again have the difficult responsibility of assessing the implementation of their decisions and of seeking new solutions to problems that affect millions of human beings — solutions that will require a mechanism for international cooperation. The United Nations must remain the pivotal instrument for States in dealing with new international challenges to peace and security, such as terrorism; hunger; poverty; violations of human rights that continue to deprive millions of human beings of their fundamental freedoms; the degradation of the environment; organized transnational crime, including drug trafficking; and HIV/AIDS. The recent difficulties that the United Nations has confronted in dealing with situations that have seriously affected international security have exposed the limitations of its structure and its operation. The United Nations system must be urgently reformed and adapted to the demands and challenges of the current situation, which is characterized by globalization. The main organs of the United Nations lack the broad democratic character that they need in order to express the will of the majority of the Members of the Organization. Both categories of membership of the Security Council should be expanded — on the basis of equitable geographical representation — so as to reflect the new international order. In the past 50 years, humanity has made important advances in the areas of science and technology, economic development, medicine and other fields, which have resulted in improved living conditions and in an increase in the life expectancy of vast segments of the world’s population, as well as in the growth of the world’s material and even spiritual wealth. However, while some countries and continents have shared in those gains, others continue to be marginalized — overwhelmed by economic setbacks that force a significant part of their population to live below the poverty line. The aspirations of such people to a world of social justice and the full exercise of their economic and social rights, including the right to development, continue to be unfulfilled. In fact, the ranks of the poor have not stopped growing: since 1990, the number of poor people has been growing in sub-Saharan Africa, Southern Asia and in Latin America and the Caribbean. In the recent summit on hunger and poverty, promoted by the President of Brazil, Lula da Silva, world leaders highlighted the dramatic situation of billions of human beings living mainly in developing countries who are suffering from hunger, malnutrition and diseases that are easily preventable. This is a reprehensible picture, and we must therefore make the eradication of hunger and poverty a priority in our national policies and on the Organization’s agenda. This dramatic situation could rapidly be reversed by a greater commitment on the part of the Governments of developing countries and a stronger political will on the part of the richest countries. Furthermore, restrictions on international free trade have contributed to a deterioration in the living conditions of people in countries subjected to restrictive economic measures, as is the case in Cuba. We believe that such measures constitute an assault on moral and humanitarian principles. In spite of the efforts made by developing nations to improve their economic performance and the well-being of their populations, the practical results do not measure up to the needs of the development process. This is partly the result of the imposition on developing countries of policies that do not take their realities into account. Some institutions and rich countries are pressuring poor countries to follow the steps taken by industrialized countries during their economic development, alleging that developing countries will develop faster because of the benefits resulting from the implementation of policies that have in the past yielded positive results. Such guidelines do not come close to meeting the development needs of poor countries. They fail to place an emphasis on training institutions at the local and national level; those institutions should, indeed, serve as levers for development. Wealthy nations have a moral responsibility to foster a spirit of partnership, not of inequality and dependence, so as to contribute to the development of the less affluent countries and to the establishment of institutions capable of sustaining their integration into the global economy. 54 The existing economic disparities between the wealthy countries of the North and the developing countries of the South is not the result of choice on the part of the latter. The enrichment of the industrialized world has been achieved at the expense of the impoverishment of the Third World through the rampant exploitation of its natural resources and workforce and the imposition of a system of occupation and dominance. Today, our countries and peoples are still suffering as a result of those policies of exploitation and subjugation, which in some cases have been worsened by internal conflicts that came about after the end of the period of foreign dominance. It appears to us at times that the international financial institutions and the rich countries deliberately minimize those facts. From our point of view, the extensive hesitation with respect to financial assistance to developing countries is unjustified. Furthermore, some of the imposed preconditions seem to be a response more to political interests rather than to the requirements of sustainable economic development. We had until recently called on this body and on the international community to support the restoration of peace in Angola. That long-sought peace has finally arrived and it has proved to be irreversible. The success of the peace process ushered in a new phase: the laying of the political groundwork for the construction of a new society, one based on the rule of law, tolerance, a market economy, and the existence of a vibrant civil society. In addition to that political process, my Government is engaged in economic reform, which is a contributing factor to economic and social stability. Were it not for the tremendous, simultaneous challenges that we have had to face, that process could have been faster. So far, the Angolan Government has been tackling alone the task of national reconstruction. That task involves the rehabilitation of social and productive infrastructures, which were almost totally destroyed by the armed conflict; the social reintegration of nearly 100,000 former combatants and their families; the resettlement of more than 4 million internally displaced persons and more than 400,000 refugees; and a far- reaching effort to reduce the poverty that afflicts most of the population. This very difficult task can be successful only with the full participation of the international community. The reservations expressed by certain international donors in terms of providing assistance to Angola — overlooking the fact that the internal conflict was quite lengthy and destructive, that it absorbed a large part of the country’s financial, human and materials resources, and that it disrupted the country — can be justified only by a lack of political will. The reconstruction of Angola urgently requires partnerships and substantial support comparable to the assistance given to other countries in post-conflict situations. As a country that is rejoicing in the peace and freedom for which it fought for 40 years, Angola is concerned with the instability in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a country that shares an extensive land border with Angola, and with which we have fraternal ties. We were particularly shocked by the massacres of civilians in Gatumba. The perpetrators of that heinous act, who provoked a new escalation of violence in order to make the peace process unworkable, must be held judicially accountable. That act makes clear, inter alia, that, despite the significant efforts made in the context of the peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the situation is still quite fragile. The international community, particularly the Security Council and the African Union, must devote special and ongoing attention to this issue in order to avoid a collapse of the process. In that context, subregional organizations, the countries of the region and other bodies involved in the pursuit of lasting peace in that country must cooperate, with a view to encouraging the Congolese parties to meet their commitments under the transitional process. It is crucial that all the countries neighbouring the Democratic Republic of the Congo reiterate their commitment to continue to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country and not to interfere in its internal affairs. The Transitional Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo needs the support of the international community. My Government is willing, to the extent of its ability, to supply the necessary assistance in the process of the consolidation of peace and stability in that country. 55 The crisis in Darfur is a thorn in the international juridical conscience. Angola supports the decision of the Secretary-General to authorize an investigation. We hope that the authorities of the Sudan will fully cooperate with the African Union and the Security Council in their efforts to help bring peace to the people of that region. We believe that there now exists a solid basis for resolving that conflict. Having in the past been a victim of terrorism, Angola cannot be indifferent to acts of terrorism, wherever they may happen. The acts of terrorism we have witnessed in recent times, and the vile and cruel form they have taken, should not discourage the efforts that the international community has been making to root out their perpetrators, but should instead increase its determination to isolate terrorist groups and stymie their efforts. We believe, however, that we should reflect further on ways to prevent and combat terrorism. Have the methods used to date been effective in eradicating terrorism? Is the current system of collective security capable of coping with the aggressiveness of the terrorists? Would responses to terrorism based on the multilateral efforts of the United Nations be less effective? We wish to extend our congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We would also like to thank to Mr. Julian Hunte and the Secretary-General for their efforts during this difficult year. Last year, we expressed our concern about the restoration of sovereignty in Iraq and the reinvigoration of the Middle East peace process. This year, we wish especially to note the critical need to end the tragedy in Darfur. Armenians, victims of the twentieth century’s first genocide, know well the long- lasting effects of victimization and homelessness. This is no way to begin a new millennium. The benefits of globalization should be utilized to overcome this newest global crisis. We also comprehend all too well that peace and security abroad and at home are clearly associated with 18 social and economic dignity today — or with faith in their possible attainment tomorrow. Neither self- satisfied smugness on the one hand nor self-righteous violence on the other are solutions to the great inequalities that exist around the world and within each of our countries, even the most developed of them. Terrorism, in all its manifestations, affects security and political and economic stability in our neighbourhoods and throughout our planet. Terrorism, from Madrid to Beslan, in all its manifestations, is inexcusable and unacceptable. Cognizant that the success of counter-terrorism efforts is dependent upon collective measures, Armenia has readily joined the global fight against international terrorism. That fight must go beyond effective regional and international cooperation. It must include the very goals of the Millennium Declaration: replacing deprivation, poverty and injustice with universal respect for human rights and democracy, economic development, equality and social justice. In Armenia we have had a year in which economic growth went hand in hand with increased participation in international organizations, particularly in the United Nations. Our position in the Human Development Index gives us the confidence to continue on our path of economic development. We will also work hard to bolster public-private partnerships. We are proud that Armenia’s major enterprises are finding ways to contribute to art and culture, to invest in public life and to become partners in our society’s pursuit of happiness and quality of life. In 2005, the international community will review the progress that has been made in the implementation of the global development agenda. It would be most useful if we could focus our resources on the implementation of the agenda rather than on restating our collective good intentions. In other words, we must find the political will to make the political and financial commitments necessary to overcome the outstanding obstacles. The Millennium Development Goals are guidelines for Armenia. To that end, the empowerment of women, the protection of children and the fight against poverty are not just goals for us: they are building blocks for a prosperous, healthy and stable society. The Government of Armenia has approved national action plans on the protection of the rights of the child, on improving the status of women and enhancing their role in our society and on preventing trafficking in persons. In addition, a broad anti- corruption strategy, developed with the participation and counsel of the international community, will complement the poverty reduction strategy programme that is already beginning to yield results. We are continuing our effective collaboration with United Nations bodies on a number of important issues, including use of information and communication technologies to improve governance and institutionalize public/private interactions. With donor community support, focused institution-building and good governance, we expect that the human rights and democratic reforms of the past decade will go beyond the solid legislative framework that has already been developed and will take root — psychologically and socially — in our society. Armenia, as an active member of the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights, will remain involved in international development cooperation. At the same time, we will participate in the effort to improve the consultation and coordination mechanisms that are essential for the effectiveness of the collective security system and we look forward to the assessment of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. We stand for broader cooperation between the United Nations and regional organizations to ensure the broader involvement and commitment of countries in decision-making and implementation processes. Reform is necessary within those valued organizations if we are to effectively address today’s realities and challenges and resolve tomorrow’s problems. To do that, we cannot work with yesterday’s mechanisms. A revitalized General Assembly is indispensable for effective United Nations action. We would also support Japan, Germany and India joining countries from Africa and Latin America as permanent members of an enlarged and more representative Security Council. In a few short years, Armenia has done away with the false proposition that we must choose between East and West, between the old world and the new. We have done away with the myth that our neighbours can control the pace of our economic development and shape its direction. Now we want to do away with the very dangerous notion that yesterday’s adversaries are enemies forever. 19 Armenia is ready to compromise and collaborate with neighbours who are ready to join us in making history, not rewriting it. We want to work with an Azerbaijan that understands its place in a rule-based international order, not one whose policies, practices and statements threaten the fragile peace and stability of our region. Azerbaijan was the first to introduce ethnic cleansing in the Soviet space, the first to engage mercenaries and international terrorists in its own defence and the first to discard the “rules of engagement” in international organizations. Let me explain. The Armenian presence in the region of the Caucasus has been long and extensive. Indeed, denying or rewriting that history requires systematic planning, energy and resources. Unfortunately, the Government of Azerbaijan has not spared those resources. Azerbaijan succeeded in eliminating the Armenians of Nakhichevan, who comprised more than half the population there. There were more than 400,000 Armenians living in Azerbaijan during the Soviet period. The pogroms of Sumgait and Baku led to the fact that there are none today. Indeed, the Azerbaijani experiment in ethnic cleansing worked. A decade ago, Azerbaijan retained the services of mercenaries and international terrorists — the same names we hear today — to fight against the Armenian men and women who were defending their own lands and homes against aerial bombings and proximate shelling. The terrorists lost, Armenians won. Finally, Azerbaijan’s leadership dismisses the opportunities offered by membership in international organizations to build bridges and seek solutions. Today, Azerbaijan rejects mediation by those who wish to help halt drug trafficking through its territory. It dismisses efforts by the Council of Europe and other monitoring groups to come to the region and see with their own eyes, at first hand, the destruction of thousands of irreplaceable historic and cultural markers. Azerbaijan squawks about its desire for NATO membership, even as it repeatedly prohibits a partner’s participation in NATO exercises. Worse, Azerbaijan not only does not rebuke, it champions the Azerbaijani military officer who decapitated a fellow Armenian officer in a NATO training course in Budapest. It maligns the Minsk Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to hide its own refusal to consider the proposals that have grown from the discussions and negotiations in which its own leadership has participated. For more than half a decade, Azerbaijan has rejected every proposal before it from the “common State” proposal in 1998 to the Key West document of 2001. Armenians prevailed in the military confrontation unleashed by Azerbaijan in response to the peaceful demands of the people of Nagorno-Karabakh for self- determination. Contrary to the assertion made by Azerbaijan’s President from this podium, Armenians have occupied those lands for over 2,000 years, and not just the last 10. Today, Nagorno-Karabakh has reversed the injustice done by Stalin back in the mid-1920s. It is free, democratic and tolerant of minorities. Nagorno- Karabakh holds regular elections, has State and security structures, completely controls its own territory and has a growing economy. If in the past century Armenians and Azerbaijanis were forcibly linked together, in the present century — in which we have won the right to our own destinies — we can determine to live together peaceably. If we are serious about becoming full, deserving residents of the European neighbourhood — where borders do not count, but intentions and tolerance do — we will have to come to terms with our past, with our history and with the realities that have gripped our region.I would like to join others in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election to direct the affairs of the General Assembly — this great parliament of nations — at its fifty-ninth session. Let me also take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte, especially for the momentum he gave to the ongoing process of the revitalization of the General Assembly. Once again, in his annual report on the work of the Organization and in his forthright statement to the Assembly last week, the Secretary-General set the tone of the annual general debate. My delegation commends him for his tenacity and courage under extreme political circumstances and shares his overall assessment of the current international situation and the role of the United Nations. 20 Just a little more than three weeks ago, on the initiative of the member States of the Non-Aligned Movement, the Assembly reaffirmed the central role of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security and the promotion of international cooperation. It was, indeed, a reaffirmation that this Organization was founded on international cooperation and that its efficacy is rooted in international cooperation. My delegation therefore urges all Member States to adhere to the principle of cooperation. Sierra Leone believes, and will continue to believe in the United Nations. After all, we are part of the United Nations, like each and every State represented in the General Assembly. Of course there are some difficulties, but we strongly believe that, given adequate resources and cooperative support in a timely manner and given the necessary moral and political support, the United Nations can deliver, as it has done admirably in Sierra Leone. In that connection, allow me to express our sincere appreciation to all the countries that have contributed to the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL). Our thanks also go out to the staff of all the agencies and programmes of the United Nations family and the non-governmental organizations that have worked in partnership with the United Nations, the Government and civil society to restore peace and stability in our country and, most recently, to conduct local government elections. A theme that has reverberated within the Hall in the past week, and in other international forums, is the observance of the rule of law. The Secretary-General’s analysis of its significance needs no embellishment. The causes and character of the conflict in Sierra Leone, perhaps more than in any other country in the world in recent times, tell us that nearly everything crumbles when the rule of law collapses and that, therefore, it should be made the pillar of post-conflict reconstruction, national recovery, governance and administration of justice and the cornerstone of lasting peace. While the Government of Sierra Leone is struggling, albeit with limited resources, to reform its own administration of justice, it is also concerned about the financial situation of the Special Court, established in the country to address impunity. The efficacy, and indeed the credibility of the Court, could be questioned unless urgent measures are taken to address its budgetary problems. I should therefore like to take this opportunity to appeal for continued voluntary contributions, as well as the requested subventions from the regular budget of the United Nations for the Special Court. As President Kabbah said at the formal opening of the courthouse last March, it is “a Special Court for Sierra Leone, a symbol of the rule of law and an essential element in the pursuit of peace, justice and national reconciliation for the people of Sierra Leone. It is also a Special Court for the international community, a symbol of the rule of international law.” There is no guarantee that the victims of violations of international humanitarian and human rights law during the civil war in Sierra Leone will receive reparation for those heinous crimes. So the least we can do for them now is to ensure that justice is done. We can do so by reducing the financial burden of the Special Court and by demonstrating that we are indeed serious about respect for the rule of law. The United Nations was formed over 50 years ago as a response to the peace and security needs of the era of its birth. Since then, the world has experienced, and continues to experience, fundamental changes, to which the United Nations should adapt. That is why Sierra Leoneans continue to follow with profound interest the consultative processes for the revitalization of the General Assembly and reforms in the Security Council in order to reflect the reality of the contemporary world. My delegation wishes to urge the President to sustain the momentum in the processes generated by the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. The menace of terrorism and local conflicts continues to impede peace, stability and development in many parts of the world. Innocent victims aside, conflicts have reversed the development gains of poor countries, and even reduced them to the status of donor-dependants. While deploring all acts of terrorism, it is important to recognize that poor countries, particularly those emerging from conflict, have weak capacity to fight terrorism. If global action is what is needed to fight terrorism, and my delegation believes that this should be the case, efforts should be made to enhance the capacity of poor countries to play their own role in that battle. 21 After about 11 years of a violent and destructive civil conflict, Sierra Leone is now in the delicate post- conflict phase. It is in that phase that the root causes of the conflict should be addressed and the foundation for permanent peace, stability and sustainable development should be laid. In short, that is the phase in which the gains of the peace effort should be maximized, using a synergetic approach that incorporates development and other strands of generators of peace into peacekeeping. But this approach needs resources and planning beyond the traditional peacekeeping strategies that involve pulling out when the guns fall silent. It is in that regard that my delegation is soliciting continued and enhanced support for post-conflict Sierra Leone. An important component of this appeal is that development and financial institutions should understand the multifaceted demands and delicate character of post-conflict situations and treat them as special cases. That means that those institutions should revisit their rigid and standard prescriptions, with the purpose of making them flexible and responsive to the special requirements of post-conflict situations. Ten days ago, the Security Council extended the mandate of UNAMSIL to June 2005. The Government of Sierra Leone has endorsed the Secretary-General’s assessment and recommendations regarding the benchmarks for the residual presence of UNAMSIL in the country. We note in particular that, over the next several months, the Security Council will review the residual functions against the capacity of the Sierra Leone armed forces and police to maintain security and stability effectively throughout the country. We hope that the review will also take into consideration the security situation in the subregion. I would like to reassure the international community through the Assembly that we do not expect UNAMSIL to remain in Sierra Leone indefinitely. The Government of Sierra Leone is determined to ensure a smooth and seamless transition from UNAMSIL to the Republic of Sierra Leone Armed Forces and the police throughout the country. The restructured army and the police have already demonstrated through training, discipline and performance that they are nearly ready to assume full responsibility for the security and safety of the people of Sierra Leone. But training is only a part of the total picture of readiness. For effective operational readiness, both the army and the police need logistical support and equipment. Accordingly, my delegation wishes to appeal to friendly nations for assistance to equip our security forces to enable them to function effectively. Meanwhile, for obvious reasons, the Government and people of Sierra Leone are encouraged by the prospects for consolidating the deployment of the United Nations peacekeeping mission throughout neighbouring Liberia. Recent dialogue between, and among, the leaders of the Mano River Union also augur well for peace and stability in our subregion. We need the continued support of the international community in resuscitating the objectives and programmes of the Mano River Union, because, if fully functional, it can complement the efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations in the subregion. In that connection, I would like to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General for his encouragement of the rejuvenation process of the Union. The United Nations has already identified many of the root causes of armed conflict within States. With the assistance of the international community, efforts are being made to address those root causes. The objective is to prevent the recurrence of armed conflicts. My delegation believes that equal attention should also be paid to the root causes of armed conflict across States, including the senseless acts of international terrorism that are being perpetrated in many parts of the world. While prompt, effective and decisive measures are absolutely necessary to deal with the phenomenon, it is about time that we try to identify and address the root causes of such ignoble acts. New challenges are emerging and new threats are being hatched in various corners of our world with unprecedented frequency. However, we must not forget the old, unresolved challenges and threats to human safety and security. Without prejudging the outcome of the Secretary-General’s High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, Sierra Leone hopes that the Panel’s report will help to throw some light on the probable link between what could be described as old and still existing threats and those now being characterized as new threats and challenges. Perhaps, as President Kabbah suggested at the Millennium Summit four years ago, the old and still existing challenges are taking on a new form and new dimensions. What we are experiencing is, perhaps, the transmutation of threats and challenges. 22 In speaking of old challenges and threats, the question of Palestine comes to mind. It has been on our agenda for far too long. We know that that is a complex issue. However, the longer it remains unresolved, the greater the risk of unending cycles of violence. Sierra Leone firmly believes that an equitable solution, in particular the establishment of an independent Palestinian State side by side with Israel within secure borders, would be a giant step towards peace and security, not only in the Middle East but also in the rest of our troubled and unsafe world. Still in the area of existing threats to international peace and security, my delegation is disturbed by the tragic humanitarian situation in the Darfur region of the Sudan. We applaud the response of the African Union to the crisis and urge all stakeholders to do whatever is necessary to speedily resolve the conflict. But let me emphasize that the African Union would like to do more — and would do more if it had the resources. Accordingly, I would like to make an open appeal, on behalf of the African Union Commission, for financial and material support for the African Union to enable it to deal with the situation. The Government and the people of Sierra Leone know from experience that ceasefire, disarmament, demobilization and reintegration are essential components of peace. But we are still faced with the daunting task of consolidating the peace, because peace goes far beyond the process of the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants. The consolidation of peace — real peace — means improvements in the lives and livelihoods of all our people. It means jobs, food, education, health care, adequate housing and other social services. As the Secretary-General observed in his most recent report on the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone, considerable progress has been made towards economic and social recovery. However, in order to sustain the process of consolidating peace and to facilitate the smooth transition from recovery to sustainable development, Sierra Leone needs continued support, particularly for vulnerable areas of the country. We look forward to the 2005 comprehensive review of the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals — a review that will coincide with the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. We in Sierra Leone will also be reviewing the state of our food security goal of ensuring that by the end of 2007, no Sierra Leonean will go to bed hungry. Our food security goal must be seen in the context of one of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, namely, the reduction of extreme poverty and hunger. Given the grave consequences of extreme poverty and starvation, those are realistic goals. They represent the minimum standard necessary to save lives. They are attainable. We know that it is our responsibility to do more for ourselves. We also know the urgency of addressing the democratic deficit in international economic and financial decision-making. In our interdependent and increasingly globalizing world, economic and social inequities within countries are a reflection of unfair rules, unfair trade practices and an uneven playing field in international transactions. The Director- General of the International Labour Organization, Juan Somavia, was correct when he told the recent African Union summit in Ouagadougou that good national governance will not succeed unless we have good global governance. Consumers need to share, in a more equitable manner with producers in the developing world, the benefits derived from their abundant natural and human resources. That means, among other things, fair prices and debt relief, all of which should have a positive impact on our capacity to reduce poverty within our respective developing countries.I would like to start by congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I pledge the full support of my delegation for your endeavours. I would also like to pay tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte for his able presidency. We are world leaders at a time when our globe is undergoing an important phase of adaptation to new realities, opportunities and challenges. As the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, frequently states, we now possess the know- how to address our common concerns. The Millennium Summit, which was the largest gathering of world leaders, produced a historical document - the Millennium Declaration - which charts the right course for humanity in the new millennium. The goals that the Millennium Declaration defined for humanity are ambitious, yet achievable. Reducing hunger and extreme poverty, spreading universal primary education, halting infectious diseases and reducing child mortality within 15 years continue to be urgent tasks. Universal humanitarian challenges and chronic political-military conflicts are compounded with new and asymmetrical threats such as terrorism, narcotic drugs, organized crime, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and environmental problems. On the other hand, racism, anti-Semitism, prejudicial attitudes against the tenets of certain creeds and cultures, among them those of Islam, and xenophobia add fuel to those menaces. In addition, the special and urgent needs of the African continent continue to require a collective response. The United Nations system should be encouraged to intensify its role in addressing those issues. Confidence in the international order and in international institutions should not be undermined. A more effective and credible United Nations would be better able to face the common challenges of today. The Security Council should have a more representative and balanced character; indeed, representation in the Council must be inclusive and fair. That will increase its legitimacy 25 and efficiency. In that respect, I would like to commend the efforts of the Secretary-General. The correlation between good governance and peace and prosperity is valid both domestically and internationally. Therefore, a global agenda for reform should cover all aspects of domestic and international life. Each member of the international community has a stake in, and responsibility for, the implementation of such an agenda. On our part, my Government, fully conscious of that correlation, has carried out sweeping political and economic reforms in the past two years. We have thus upgraded and deepened our democracy and consolidated an accountable, transparent and efficient administration and a dynamic civil society upholding the rule of law and human rights. The expectations of our people, as well as the relevant United Nations and European Union standards, inspired us in our reform drive. I take pride in the fact that many observers, both in the west and in the east, have seen in our experience the perfect embodiment of modernity, progress, identity and tradition. I should like to take this opportunity to confirm Turkey's candidacy for a non-permanent seat in the Security Council for the term 2009-2010. In spite of its substantial contributions to peace and security, Turkey has not been a member of the Council for almost half a century. Therefore we rightfully expect the support of the General Assembly for our candidacy. Our bid for a non-permanent seat is in tune with Turkey's larger efforts to secure peace, stability and security in its region and beyond. Turkey figures prominently in humanitarian activities, from Palestine to Darfur. We have been contributing increasing numbers to international peacekeeping missions whose geographical distribution ranges from Bosnia to Afghanistan. Turkey has a unique position as the only member of the Organization of the Islamic Conference that is also a candidate for membership in the European Union. That position enables us to facilitate interaction and dialogue between the Islamic world and the West. Turkey has numerous achievements to its credit in the process of helping to create an environment conducive to development, stability and progress in our region and beyond. The Black Sea Economic Cooperation, the Economic Cooperation Organization and the Stability Pact are good examples to that effect. My Government has been taking a peaceful and problem-solving approach to world affairs. On the chronic issue of Cyprus, my Government fully supported Secretary-General Kofi Annanís good- offices mission, and we cooperated closely with him. The Secretary-Generalís settlement plan was the result of four years of serious negotiations between the two sides. They were conducted on the basis of a new bi-zonal partnership with a federal Government and two constituent States. The plan was put to separate referendums, with the prior agreement of all parties concerned. The Annan plan was overwhelmingly accepted by the Turkish Cypriots, but the Greek Cypriot leadership chose to reject it. I profoundly regret the fact that an opportunity to resolve the longstanding problem of Cyprus was thus missed. As a result, a chance to grant fresh credibility to the United Nations was lost. A possible source of inspiration for peacemakers elsewhere, in the Middle East or the Caucasus, also disappeared. The Secretary-General, in his report to the Security Council, clearly stated that the referendums drastically changed the situation on the island. It confirmed, once again, the existence of two equal peoples and their separate rights to decide their own fate. The Secretary-General also called on the members of the Security Council to 'give a strong lead to all States to cooperate both bilaterally and in international bodies, to eliminate unnecessary restrictions and barriers that have the effect of isolating the Turkish Cypriots and impeding their development' (S/2004/437, p. 2). Turkey remains committed to a lasting settlement in Cyprus. Five months have passed since the Turkish Cypriots, responding to the call of the international community, voted courageously in favour of the United Nations plan. However, they have yet to be rewarded for expressing their will to reunify the island. We urge the Security Council positively to respond to the Secretary-Generalís call. We also appeal to United Nations Member States to take concrete steps, at the bilateral level, to put an end to the isolation and punishment of the people of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. 26 Turkey has been strongly supporting, and will continue to support, the preservation of peace and stability in south-east Europe. We are glad to note that considerable progress has been achieved in this region thanks to the sustained efforts of the international community and of the Balkan countries themselves. Turkey is determined to sustain the promising and constructive atmosphere in our relations with Greece. We hope that the improvement in bilateral relations will continue in the coming period. Our wide-ranging cooperation is expanding in every field. That will facilitate the settlement of all pending issues. It will also result in a climate of cooperation beneficial to the two countries, as well as peace, stability and security in the region as a whole. Turkey believes that it is high time to start taking concrete steps towards eliminating the existing ìfrozenî conflicts in the southern Caucasus, such as those in Nagorno-Karabakh, Abkhazia and South Ossetia. As a neighbouring country, we are actively contributing to efforts aimed at achieving stability and prosperity in that region. To that end, we have been encouraging all the parties concerned while facilitating the ongoing process of dialogue. We hope that the Abkhazian conflict and the problems in South Ossetia will be overcome by peaceful means, within the framework of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Georgia. My Government supports a just and lasting solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict on the basis of the fundamental principles of international law, the territorial integrity of Azerbaijan and good-neighbourly relations. We expect the Armenian Government to fully comply with the relevant United Nations resolutions to reach such a solution. The Middle East problem and the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan are the major conflicts responsible for compounding instability in the world and are leading to increasingly serious consequences. The road map is the only available framework for a comprehensive settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian problem. Benefiting from its traditional ties with the parties, Turkey has already offered its active contribution to the implementation of the road map. We also support every effort that is initiated and coordinated in that context. We join the call made by the Quartet yesterday. The resumption of the negotiating process between the two parties should remain the central objective of current efforts. It is important, likewise, that both sides fulfil their performance criteria as laid out in the road map. Terrorist attacks against the Israeli people must stop. So must the deliberate destruction of Palestinian lives and properties. The process of the reform of Palestinian institutions must be advanced. Israeli settlement activities must be immediately halted. The ruling of the International Court of Justice must be respected. And the living conditions of the Palestinians need to be urgently improved. Any settlement would be incomplete without progress on all tracks, including those involving Syria and Lebanon. My Government is focused on contributing to the improvement of the situation in Iraq. We appreciate the massive resources and political efforts mobilized by the United States Administration and the international community for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Iraq. We sincerely hope those efforts yield the desired results soon. However, the humanitarian, political and security difficulties faced by the people of Iraq continue to adversely affect one another. It goes without saying that developments in Iraq are also affecting my country and causing suffering for my people, while, as we are a neighbouring country, most of Iraqís humanitarian needs are being supplied through Turkey. The Iraqi transition is not only about the fate of the Iraqi nation. It is about the future of peace and prosperity in the whole region and beyond. That is the motive for Turkey's strong support of a united, territorially intact and democratic Iraq - an Iraq that is at peace with itself and with its neighbours. That should and can only be achieved with the full participation and support of the Iraqi people as a whole. More United Nations involvement would facilitate that task. The series of neighbouring countries meetings, initiated by Turkey, is also a valuable instrument to be taken into account. After all, as Iraqís success will be our collective success, so its failure will also be a collective failure. For its part, Turkey will continue to support the Iraqi interim Governmentís efforts in paving the way to normalcy and democracy. Turkey's traditional support for the Afghan people will continue. The establishment of security, 27 stability and a democratic system in Afghanistan is another urgent task. Freeing that country from terrorism, extremism and narcotics is of crucial importance for the international community. We should all work to make the upcoming elections a significant step towards those ends. We all agree that terrorism has no justification. It can never claim to respect any religion, nation or cause. Indiscriminate killing of innocent people, be it in New York, Istanbul, Baghdad, Beslan or elsewhere, is a crime against humanity. We condemn those terrorist atrocities in the strongest terms. As a country that has long suffered from terrorism, Turkey calls for more intensified multilateral cooperation. The United Nations system is an important platform in that respect and we extend our full support to efforts under its aegis. We also strongly believe in the urgent need to strengthen the control regimes for weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. We will continue to support ongoing work to ensure full adherence to the legal instruments in that field. The creation of nuclear-weapon-free zones is an important way of strengthening peace and security in the world and in all regions, including the Middle East. Turkey is determined to use every effort and deploy all the means at its disposal in order to strengthen peace and stability in its immediate region and beyond. We will try to use the influence of our multidimensional ties and deep-rooted relations to achieve that goal. We remain strongly committed to translating into reality the universal validity of the noble values and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter.I would like to extend to the General Assembly the warm greetings and good wishes of the Government and people of the Republic of the Fiji Islands. I would also like to warmly congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-ninth session. I pledge to you our support and cooperation. That reflects our respect for your country, with which we have enjoyed close relations through our common membership of the African, Caribbean and Pacific partnership with the European Union. I also wish to express Fiji’s warm thanks to Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia for his very able leadership of the fifty-eighth session. Fiji and other small island nations of the Pacific region applaud the fine example set by the countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) in their shared approach to managing the responsibilities of that high office. Today we are confronted by events that cast a shadow over humankind and the United Nations vision of peace. The humanitarian crisis in Sudan continues. As relief efforts proceed, our thoughts are with the refugees of Darfur. We urge the Government of Sudan to do everything in its power to bring that tragedy to an end. We think of those whose lives have been devastated by the destructive fury of hurricanes in the Caribbean and on the Atlantic coast of the United States. We extend to them our deepest sympathies for the loss of life and property. The perpetrators of the slaughter of innocents in Russia gave a new dimension to wickedness. They defeated their own cause through the ruthless and indiscriminate shedding of the blood of children. Nothing can justify what they did. The United Nations must be united against such infamy. Let us express our sympathy and solidarity with the ordinary people of Iraq caught in that country’s terrible cycle of violence. Let this forum give them our full and unreserved support in the struggle for genuine democratic Government and the regaining of their national sovereignty. May their hopes for a peaceful future and lasting stability find fulfilment. We feel for the families of the people killed by terrorists outside the Australian embassy in Jakarta. We 12 want them to know that their pain is shared in this family of nations. The plea from Fiji is for United Nations member countries to strengthen their joint resolve to oppose political terror everywhere. This is a critical time in history. The United Nations is called upon to mobilize all its experience, skills and powers to create concord among nations. That was its founding principle. It is the principle that must continue to drive and sustain the United Nations. Fiji, as always, is committed to the maintenance of peace and security and to a world free of weapons of mass destruction and terrorism. We want an end to ozone-depleting pollution and the elimination of other hazards to the environment. The international community must continue to fight poverty and disease. HIV/AIDS has become more than a health crisis. For some countries it is now a security threat. We in the Pacific have no immunity from this global epidemic. We would welcome continued assistance from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to supplement our regional campaign to contain this scourge. The United Nations must continue to resist external interference in any form, which undermines the sovereign right of every Member State to determine its own destiny. However, where there are internal crises and disorder and the United Nations mandates intervention for peace, we are ready to contribute. We consider it an honour to serve the cause of peace under the flag of the United Nations and regional organizations like the Pacific Islands Forum. Fiji’s soldiers and police officers have been taking part in United Nations peacekeeping operations since 1978. That has cost us 35 precious lives, but we remain strong in our resolve to continue serving where we are needed. Peacekeeping personnel from Fiji are working in Liberia, the Sinai, Kosovo, Timor-Leste, the Solomon Islands and Bougainville, Papua New Guinea. My Government is now giving careful consideration to requests from the United Nations to assist it with security personnel in Iraq. I would like to take this opportunity to express to the United Nations and to those countries that have assisted Fiji on a bilateral basis our gratitude for their help in making it possible for us to honour our commitment to international peace and security. Through the Pacific Islands Forum, and with the assistance of Australia and New Zealand, we are currently preparing a Pacific plan to pool resources and efforts for the strengthening of collective interests. We will come together to combat the threat of terror and to improve law enforcement and our defences against terrorism and transnational crime. There will be a cooperative approach to social and economic development, and especially for advancing trade, investment and tourism. We will stand united to guard our oceanic heritage, which is a treasure for all humanity. Our region has the world’s largest remaining, sustainable tuna fishery, which is an essential source of food for the global market. But more than 95 per cent of the value of the mid-Pacific Ocean tuna catch goes to distant-water fishing nations. We look to the United Nations and other international organizations to help us get a just return from that major natural resource. Fiji commends those countries that have already worked with us to reach that goal. We would like to express particular thanks to the United States for its regional fisheries treaty with certain Pacific island nations. Our island countries have now entered a new phase of cooperation in the tuna industry through the Western and Central Pacific Tuna Convention, which came into effect in June this year. In addition to reinforcing regional cooperation, Fiji and its neighbours are giving special attention to their relationships with countries in the wider Asia- Pacific region. We strongly support a role for Japan and India in an enlarged and strengthened Security Council. May I also add that Fiji would endorse the inclusion of South Africa and Brazil as permanent members. Let me say that we greatly value the assistance of Australia, New Zealand and the United States in securing our region as a zone of peace. It was heartening to see the two Koreas marching and participating under a single banner at the Olympic Games in Greece. It is our prayer that that will lead to more substantive progress in the reunification of the Korean people. We are glad to see the People’s Republic of China growing in stature and developing so quickly. Fiji enjoys steadily strengthening relations with China and wants to see those relations expanded further. It is committed to its diplomatic recognition and official relations with the 13 People’s Republic of China. At the same time, Fiji values its trade and economic ties with Taiwan. It is our fervent hope that their people will resolve their future peacefully through dialogue and consensus. For the past 29 years, close to 80 countries of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group (ACP) have been the beneficiaries of a historic development partnership with the European Union. I pay tribute to the leaders of Europe and the ACP who pioneered that unique international North-South arrangement. Generous assistance in trade, aid and investment has contributed in very significant ways to the livelihood of millions of people from poorer States. Now, as we begin negotiations with the European Union for the continuation of those arrangements, we are finding to our dismay that the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) insistence on free and open trade will effectively mean for many ACP countries, including Fiji, a massive loss in export earnings from reduced prices. For our sugar industry the direct consequence will inevitably be that the price the cane farmers receive will fall substantially below their production costs. That is despite the urgent and comprehensive reforms we have embarked upon in our sugar industry to make it more productive, efficient and competitive. Those WTO hurdles are made more difficult by the loss of competitive margins through the withdrawal of schemes like the Generalized System of Preferences. The consequence is that many small island developing States, already disadvantaged by their smallness, distance from export markets and regular devastation from natural disasters, are now faced with serious uncertainty over their economic prospects. We therefore welcome the holding by the United Nations of a special conference of small island developing States early next year to review the Programme of Action for those countries, the Barbados + 10 review. I very much hope that review will lead to new international commitments of assistance to disadvantaged small island developing States. Those commitments must underpin economic survival and a sustainable future, as the world moves inexorably towards a free and open trading system. It is also our hope that the Barbados + 10 review will renew the call for those States that have yet to sign or to ratify the Kyoto Protocol to do so, for the sake of our planet. My Government commends the initiative taken by the International Labour Organization in its World Commission Report on the Social Dimension of Globalization. It is the international community’s responsibility to ensure that for both developed and developing countries, and for big and small countries alike, globalization means a fair and equitable spread of opportunities — opportunities manifested in new investments, more jobs, decent work and improvements in education, health and other social amenities. For us in the Pacific, as small island nations, there is another area of increased concern. We take great pride in our culture, customs and traditions. They give us our identity and oneness as indigenous communities and as Pacific island peoples. I appeal to the General Assembly to bring before it for adoption at the earliest opportunity the draft declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. I request the Secretary- General to expedite that process. While we acknowledge the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international instruments in the promotion of human rights, we also recognize that they are primarily concerned with the rights of individuals. Indigenous Pacific island communities see a United Nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples as being vitally important for the international recognition and acceptance of our right to self-determination and, indeed, to our very survival as ethnically and culturally distinct peoples. But that is not to say that we are unconcerned about other communities whose members are fellow citizens with equal rights and responsibilities. Members of the Assembly are aware that Fiji has a multiracial society. The ethnic Fijians and Rotumans are the indigenous community. Collectively and communally, they own close to 90 per cent of all land in the country. Settlers from India came some 125 years ago and now comprise the majority of tenants of native land. Europeans, people of mixed ancestry, Chinese and other Pacific islanders complete Fiji’s colourful cultural tapestry. We are proud of that national diversity. It gives our country its distinctive character and its still unrealized potential. Although we have learned to co-exist without the racial violence and hatred common elsewhere, we are still a country divided, especially in politics. From independence, in 1970, we tried hard to create multiracialism founded on mutual respect, mutual care 14 and understanding. But, unfortunately, during elections the overwhelming majority of voters still make their choices along ethnic lines. It is not because they are against candidates from other communities, it is just that they find security and comfort in choosing representatives from their own community. Since my Government came to office, in 2001, we have been engaged in a new quest for unity. Our vision is for a peaceful, unified and prosperous Fiji. Politically, we wish to build on the concept of guaranteed representation for our different communities in Parliament. The challenge now is to extend this to representation in Government. As a parliamentary democracy, we are committed to Government based on the free will and consent of the people. But, at the same time, we want to ensure that each community has a direct voice in national decision-making. It is that desire for inclusion and equity that has led us to adopt measures to close the social and economic gap between Fijians and the other communities and between the affluent and the disadvantaged and the poor. Increasingly, we are finding that faith in God is a powerful instrument for forming bonds across the racial divide. We may follow different beliefs, but a common focus on the divine is lighting the way forward. When I return to Fiji, the country will be getting ready for eight days of prayer, forgiveness and reconciliation. The aim is to bring people together and to create a sense of national purpose and patriotism. All the great faiths represented in Fiji will be part of that. Each contains in their teachings the jewels of truth that gleam for all humanity. Each has an important capacity for peace-making. Each can make a valuable contribution to increasing understanding and resolving differences. In those eight days in October, therefore, our religious leaders will join with other citizens of good will in this fresh search for togetherness. The promotion of unity has been a pressing national priority since my Government came to office, four years ago. We understand that it will not come quickly. The General Assembly will be pleased to hear that our communities themselves, through their religious and cultural organizations, are coming forward to join with the Government in the making of a unified State. The climax of our national week of prayer and forgiveness will be an interfaith service. We recognize that human effort alone is not enough for what we want to achieve. Just as this great Organization seeks a world of harmony bound together by common ideals, we in Fiji want our own United Nations, a united nation where our citizens live together happily and nationhood is fulfilled.Mr. President, allow me at the outset, on behalf of the delegation of the Comoros and on my own behalf, to congratulate you warmly on your election to preside over the work of the General Assembly at its fifty- ninth session. Your task is by no means an easy one, but it is an honour to you personally, to your country and to the entire African continent. No other organization can boast of that universal mission. I would therefore like to assure you of the full readiness of my delegation to work with you for the success of that noble mission in the service of peace and security in the world. My delegation welcomes the way in which your predecessor guided the work at the fifty-eighth session. On behalf of the Comoros I hail the tireless commitment and complete availability of the Secretary-General in the fight he leads to advance the ideals of peace, social justice, development and freedom throughout the world. The world — a world of peace and vision, Of ideas and union now unfurled, A world that has divided lands And with seas that share their sands; World of tolerance and knowing, World abundance, overflowing; World of peace, world that charmed, No, world; you cannot be harmed. Nations unity provided, But hearts tend to be divided. For we have met each other, And yet our peoples live in fear. Children of the world, and countries of the world, 24 Where is the world? What is this world? Borders here do not exist; Prayers vanish in the mist. Terror is their daily lot; Fear is all that they have got. Killers rule instead of bread. Millennium world, world so fair, Yet a world of billionaires; World of speeches of all sorts Within fora, and of courts. World rejecting our solutions and denying resolutions. What a world. What a peace. While the world is slowly forging ahead in this third millennium, we are obliged to note that the feelings of our respective peoples are fluctuating between hope and concern. Indeed, while the relationship between peace and development is becoming increasingly justified and is making them indivisible, the path of world events is tending to call this into question. It is indeed true that there can be no peace and no security in the world as long as hundreds of millions of individuals are still prisoners of destitution and poverty and still do not have the minimum necessary for a decent daily life. Nor can there be peace and security in the world as long as, working all together, we have not made the required efforts to save the hundreds of millions of human lives threatened by the scourges of AIDS and other pandemics. Moreover, what kind of peace can there be in a world that makes the spread of weapons and the proliferation of hotbeds of tension the very pattern of its existence and the means for its evolution? These are the problems before us, this forum with the highest priority mission of seeing to the proper conduct of world affairs, the prosperity and flourishing of the human race and to the control of the global environment by our actions, which must serve the cause and the welfare of each and every people, each nation and each citizen of the world. That is why it is incumbent on the United Nations, today more than ever, to play fully its role as defined by the Charter. This role is one of vanguard action, of mediation par excellence, of stimulus and of promotion of the remarkable accomplishments wrought every day by the progress of science. For that reason, my country says “no” to poverty, “no” to AIDS and other pandemics, “no” to terrorism and “yes” to the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. In order to combat the scourges of poverty, major diseases and terrorism, we need a firm and determined will to work for development. The Millennium Summit, in which all the foremost leaders of our planet participated, took full note of that reality. The Millennium Declaration set out the steps and the course to follow in order to effectively direct the world’s development and progressively correct the problems identified. The Declaration established 2015 as the deadline for reviewing the plan of action that each country must implement, in a collective resolve to get the world back on track. The Union of the Comoros endorses the Millennium Development Goals. While working for progress in the national reconciliation process, the Government of my country, like all other members of the community of nations, has made the necessary efforts to establish a poverty reduction strategy. Today, that document to which all active forces in our country contributed, constitutes the instrument panel of our development priorities. In order for the Comoros to act on those development priorities, it requires the assistance of the international community. It was only this past April that my country finally completed the establishment of its institutions, thus bringing to a close the separatist and institutional crisis that for seven years had shaken the foundations of our State. In particular, we hope that the entire international community will support the African Union’s call, issued at the recent summit at Addis Ababa, for an international donors round-table meeting to be held to assist the convalescent Comoros. This would enable it to recover and by stages to rejoin the other nations in working at the subregional, continental and global levels to achieve sustainable development, which is now its greatest priority. The firm national commitment of all Member States of the international community is required to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. This 25 militates in favour of the enhanced representation of continents and peoples in the United Nations. We should therefore consider increasing the permanent membership of the Security Council to include, for example, the Republic of India, Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Federative Republic of Brazil. The African continent and the Arab world also deserve appropriate representation on the Security Council. That is the way to achieve equity, and equity is desperately needed for there to be greater justice and peace in the world. That appears to be what must be done today to create the necessary balance for control of the international order and the global environment, which have never been so unstable and uncertain. In the eternal search for peace, social justice and prosperity, the fate of small island States, which face so many threats to their survival, must not remain in jeopardy. Let us be fully aware that numerous countries are destined to disappear because of such hazards as rising sea-levels, desertification, cyclones and volcanic eruptions. Accordingly, we must consider specific actions for each of those States. We urge the international community to mobilize on a large scale to ensure the success of the forthcoming meting of small island developing States, to be convened on the island of Mauritius early in 2005. I must not fail to affirm before the Assembly that my country, the Union of the Comoros, in its concern to maintain its unity and integrity, considers the issue of the Comorian island of Mayotte to be one of its greatest and most urgent priorities. My Government is convinced that a speedy settlement of this dispute will further the development of the country as a whole and will enable it to resolutely take its place alongside peace- and freedom-loving countries and to champion universal ideals and promote democracy in the world. The Union of the Comoros therefore calls on the French Republic to engage in a constructive political dialogue on this issue, in compliance with General Assembly resolution 3385 (XXX), which admitted the Comoros to the United Nations as the Comoro Archipelago, composed of four islands: Mayotte, Anjouan, Mohéli and Grande-Comore. In the same spirit, my country attaches the utmost importance to the principle of a single independent and indivisible China and calls for the restoration of the island of Taiwan to its rightful home. My country truly values the very constructive dialogue now under way between the Government of the Republic of India and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the question of Kashmir. The Union of the Comoros sincerely hopes that the Palestinian and Israeli peoples will soon institute a dialogue that will bring about an end to the violence and lead to the peaceful coexistence of those two neighbouring peoples. It also hopes to see a just and equitable settlement to the question of Western Sahara and vigorously supports the efforts made to that end by the United Nations and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco. The Union of the Comoros vehemently condemns the hostage-takings in Iraq and hopes to see a rapid return of peace and security in Iraq, which will contribute to security in the region. The Union of the Comoros is closely following developments in Darfur. It supports the efforts of the African Union, the Government of the Sudan and the entire international community to find a speedy, just and equitable settlement of that question. Finally, I hope that the work of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly will be successful, and I join all those eminent personalities who have preceded me at this noble rostrum in expressing my country’s most fervent desires for greater peace and security throughout the world.Allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your well-deserved election to preside over the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I assure you of my delegation’s full cooperation in the discharge of your important duties. Allow me to also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian R. Hunte, Minister for External Affairs of Saint Lucia, for his outstanding leadership in the Assembly’s last session. Our full appreciation goes to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for his invaluable and wise stewardship of the United Nations. I also wish to express, on behalf of His Majesty’s Government and the people of Nepal, our sincere condolences to the Governments, countries and peoples that have suffered the consequences of hurricanes and terrorist attacks in recent weeks and months. We live in one of the most turbulent periods since the Second World War. The end of the cold war unleashed forces of democracy and economic openness, and the revolution in science, and technology has converted the world into a global village by shrinking distances and increasing connectivity. In tandem with this came many negative consequences. Internal conflicts have proliferated and populations have been displaced. International terrorism has increased. Globalization has widened the gap between the rich and the poor. Poverty, ignorance, disease and injustice have persisted and even worsened for the majority of humanity. Transnational crimes have spread their wings. No country is immune from the impact of these huge problems facing humanity today. Addressing these problems is a challenge that requires collective action by the international community in a spirit of multilateralism. The United Nations has the legitimacy and mandate to promote multilateral solutions to the shared problems of our time. Indeed, the United Nations embodies all of humanity’s shared dreams and its hopes for peace, security and development. Nepal has abiding faith in the principles and objectives enshrined in the United Nations Charter, and we recognize the central role of the United Nations in the pursuit of those shared dreams. The emerging international situation is fraught with a multitude of challenges. Internal conflicts have afflicted countries from Iraq to Burundi and from Haiti to the Sudan. Terrorism has become a global menace, casting a dark shadow over the lives of millions of people around the globe. Deadly weapons pose a constant threat to the safety of human beings and the very existence of human civilization. By all accounts, the situation in Iraq is highly volatile and extremely dangerous. The Nepalese people have yet to overcome their revulsion over the brutal killing of 12 innocent Nepalese hostages on 31 August in that country. We strongly condemn this dastardly crime committed by the terrorists. It is our fervent hope that the Iraqi people will be able to improve their security environment, hold the scheduled elections on 9 time and live in a free, secure, democratic and prosperous Iraq. The Middle East is caught in a cycle of violence. To break this cycle, both Israel and Palestine will have to exercise maximum restraint and engage in fruitful dialogue to build the mutual confidence critical for implementing the Quartet-endorsed road map, which offers a viable and durable two-State solution. Nepal supports the road map and views the Israeli plan to pull out of Gaza as a positive step. Though the security situation has improved over time, Afghanistan is far from secure, and its reconstruction is far from satisfactory. The world community must do more to provide security to the entire country, hold free and fair elections and accelerate the speed of its reconstruction and development. Nepal supports United Nations efforts to bring peace and normalcy to Haiti, Burundi, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Sudan. We are proud to be part of United Nations efforts in our own humble way in those countries by deploying our troops. The world community ought to sustain those efforts and help those countries in their rebuilding and reconstruction endeavours. Nepal’s track record is a testimony to its unflinching commitment to United Nations peacekeeping operations. So far, over 45,000 Nepalese peacekeepers have served in various missions in an outstanding manner, and 47 of them have sacrificed their precious lives in the service of peace and humanity. At the moment, nearly 2,500 Nepalese blue helmets are deployed in 12 peacekeeping missions around the world. Nepal appreciates the United Nations help in bridging the equipment gaps for our deployment. We urge the United Nations to enrich and widen the scope of consultations with troop-contributing countries, including in the areas of mission planning and pre- deployment preparations. We urge the United Nations to give greater opportunities to Nepalese nationals in management positions in the Secretariat and in field missions. As we remain committed to peacekeeping and willing to bring our experience to the table, Nepal has sought a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2007-2008, after a gap of 19 years. I take this opportunity to appeal to Member States to give us the privilege of their support in the election to be held in 2006. It is our firm belief that the international community must look beyond the immediate conflicts and seek to build a strong foundation for durable peace by pursuing disarmament, development and the rule of law. Nepal is deeply concerned by the setback in the disarmament realm. Of course, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is very important to keeping such weapons from rogue elements. No durable peace will be possible without concerted efforts for disarmament, particularly of nuclear weapons, as they are the greatest threat to human civilization. It is regrettable that the Conference on Disarmament has had no programme of work for the last several years. That body must be allowed to work on a coherent strategy leading to the complete elimination of nuclear weapons in a time-bound manner. We reiterate our support to nuclear-weapon-free zones and to keeping outer space free of such weapons. The international community should also work together to strengthen controls over small arms and light weapons in order to prevent their abuse by non-State actors. Regional centres for peace and disarmament are instrumental in building confidence among nations. Nepal is eager to relocate to Kathmandu the Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific at the earliest possible time. We are prepared to sign the necessary agreements, consistent with the prevailing diplomatic practices and provisions of the other two regional centres. We also want the Kathmandu process revived without delay. International peace and security will continue to elude us until we address the root causes of conflicts: namely, poverty, ignorance, disease, exclusion and injustice. Most of the conflicts around the world today, which have regional and global consequences, are rooted in those sad human conditions. It is imperative that we address those conditions collectively for the shared benefit of humankind as a whole. Today, more than a billion people live in absolute poverty. Millions of people remain illiterate. Preventable diseases are taking a huge toll on children, and HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis are decimating entire societies, particularly in Africa. Growing populations have caused environmental 10 degradation. Racial, cultural and wealth-related divisions have often been sources of exclusion, intolerance and injustice. Poverty has forced many to migrate, and crimes have flourished in those sad conditions. There is no doubt that the developing countries have the primary responsibility for their own economic development and social progress. They need to take measures to reform their policies and institutions and create a climate in which enterprise, innovation and development can flourish. Most of those countries have been trying to do that on their own initiative and to live up to their side of the pledges undertaken in various global compacts. But their development partners also have their obligations to meet under various global compacts, because developing countries, given the mammoth challenges they face, cannot grapple with them and meet the Millennium Development Goals without enhanced assistance from their development partners. The development partners should meet the agreed official development assistance targets and provide greater debt relief to indebted countries. Indeed, although official development assistance flows have increased since 2002, they remain way below the additional $50 billion per year that is required to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Debt repayment is eating up a large chunk of the resources of developing countries, and the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative has yet to cover all least developed countries. In the long run, fair globalization on a level playing field and open markets will help reduce poverty, increase employment and lift the standard of living in developing nations. The development partners, therefore, should dismantle their agricultural subsidies and open their markets to goods and labour from the South. They should also offer assistance to build capacities to attract and absorb foreign direct investment and to remove supply-side constraints, especially in least developed nations. The least developed countries — the most marginalized — need more generous assistance and market access, as agreed to in the Brussels Programme of Action, to break the vicious circle of poverty and join the global economy. Our studies have shown that Nepal will not be able to meet most Millennium Development Goals without such targeted measures from its development partners. Their geographical bottleneck and distance from the main corridors of commerce handicap landlocked developing countries. We urge the transit and development partners to implement the Almaty Programme of Action and to overcome their difficulties. Though Nepal joined the World Trade Organization (WTO) last year, most least developed countries remain outside the multilateral trade framework. We call on the members of the WTO to facilitate quick and concessionary memberships for those countries. Nepal also urges the international community to change the international financial architecture so as to give a voice to the small and weak. Nepal believes that democracy, human rights and the rule of law will have to go hand in hand with peace and development to achieve overall progress in a country. It is heartening that more people in the world enjoy democracy and freedom today than ever before. Sadly, however, conflicts and poverty have driven millions of people from their homes and countries. Conflicts, together with criminal gangs, have also violated the rule of law and peoples’ human rights. New democracies should learn from each other’s experiences in consolidating democratic institutions and values, and the world community should join hands to fight transnational crime. The rule of law should apply not only in domestic situations but also throughout the international community. There are 17 million refugees around the world — a staggering number. Many more millions of persons are internally displaced. In many areas, those people live in fear and under appalling conditions. Children are deprived of a decent education, and adults lack jobs and economic opportunities. In some cases, whole generations have grown up in refugee camps, struggling to find their identity. The world community has an obligation to provide humanitarian assistance to such needy people and to help them resettle once they have returned home. Nearly 100,000 Bhutanese refugees have been living in camps in eastern Nepal for over a decade. Our bilateral efforts to find a negotiated settlement with Bhutan have been slow and halting. Even the refugees who have been verified by a joint team have yet to go back home. Other refugees are waiting for joint verification. 11 For generations, Nepal and Bhutan have remained close friends and have respected each other. The presence of Bhutanese refugees on our soil is an avoidable irritant. Therefore, we earnestly hope that the process of verification can be expedited, that verified refugees can be repatriated in a time-bound manner, and that returnees will be able to enjoy their human rights and to live in safety, dignity and honour in their own country. Obviously, Nepal does not have the capacity to take care of those refugees, though we have let them stay on humanitarian grounds. Hence, we call on the international community, including the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), to continue its support until the refugees are able to go back home and fully resettle there. Our situation has become even more difficult due to the armed violence launched in 1996 by the so- called Maoists. That violent movement began just when democracy was taking root and economic growth was accelerating owing to policy reforms. The Maoists have brutalized people and destroyed private homes and public infrastructure worth billions of rupees. They have been abducting children and recruiting them as child soldiers. They have continued to defy our call to respects schools as zones of peace. They are engaged in extortion and in the intimidation and killing of innocent civilians. This notwithstanding, His Majesty’s Government has been sincerely seeking a results-oriented dialogue to find a political settlement. At the same time, the Government has an obligation to protect the lives of people and to safeguard private property and public infrastructure by strengthening security. The Government deeply appreciates the moral and material support our friends have been providing us in the fight against the violence. In that context, we sincerely appreciate the interest expressed by the Secretary-General in the situation in Nepal, and his readiness to help the Government’s efforts towards peace. The four-party coalition Government, with its broad mandate, is working seriously to initiate the peace process in Nepal. We are confident that we will be able to resolve the problem by ourselves. Even in the midst of this difficulty, His Majesty’s Government is committed to protecting the freedoms and human rights of citizens. The National Human Rights Commission monitors the human rights situation in the country, and a three-year National Human Rights Action Plan has been launched to implement our human rights commitments. We have been seeking technical assistance from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights as concerns the capacity-building of the National Human Rights Commission. The Human Rights Promotion Centre has been established to ensure inter-departmental coordination and the supervision of human rights issues. The United Nations is the pivot of multilateralism that is imperative to address the complex challenges of our time. Nepal supports the ongoing efforts for United Nations reform, including those aimed at revitalizing the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. Priority should be accorded to enhancing the role of the United Nations in the area of economic and social development. Security Council reform has become an important issue for the international community. Nepal has consistently supported the expansion of the Council and reform of its methods of work, so as to make it more representative, transparent and democratic. In that context, the aspirations of some Member States — mainly India, Japan, Germany and Brazil — merit serious consideration for permanent membership in the Security Council. At the same time, there is urgent need to expand the Council’s non-permanent membership to ensure greater participation of small Member States. Nepal hopes the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change appointed by the Secretary- General will come up with recommendations that could culminate in tangible reforms consistent with the present realities of the world. The high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly at the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations will be a landmark event that should make a great leap forward on a number of outstanding issues and expedite implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. This fall, Nepal is organizing the Second World Buddhist Summit in Lumbini, the birthplace of Lord Buddha and a world heritage site in Nepal. We need support and participation from our friends the Member States to make the conference a success and to revive in New York the international committee for the development of Lumbini, which we are planning to do soon. To conclude, the dawn of the new millennium offers us both opportunities for and challenges to 12 revitalizing the United Nations and strengthening multilateralism. As an active Member State, Nepal will do its best to contribute to the efforts of the United Nations in order to attain the shared goals of peace and prosperity for all.I feel especially proud as an African to see that Mr. Jean Ping is presiding over this session of the General Assembly. I believe that his qualities as a human being and his vast experience are a valuable asset to the United Nations at a difficult time in international relations, when the Organization must play an even greater role in accordance with its mission and the expectations of the peoples of the world. In order to discharge fully its responsibilities and the tasks entrusted to it, the United Nations must now adjust and adapt, and must reform the structures and machinery that will enable it to strengthen its capacity for action. There is still much tension in the international situation; indeed, new sources of instability and uncertainty are appearing. A comprehensive approach is required, given the inextricable interdependence of all those issues on all levels - political, economic, social and cultural. Today more than ever, security is one and indivisible. Security cannot even be conceived of without a determined struggle against terrorism. It cannot shirk the requirement that it step up efforts for conflict settlement and prevention, nor can it disregard the pressing need to encourage worldwide development that is balanced, equitable and sustainable. It must be based on genuine dialogue - a dialogue between religions, cultures and civilizations. There is no doubt at all that excellent work has been done, since the struggle against terrorism became the absolute priority of the international community. Yet, despite the efforts made and resources put towards that struggle, there remains much to be done. In particular, it is essential that we reach agreement quickly on a common definition of terrorism so that we can be clear about the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples against foreign occupation and can stop accepting distorted, confused, ill-conceived viewpoints that see terrorism as part of just one geographical region, religion, culture or civilization. Drafting a comprehensive convention against terrorism is more urgent and important than ever before. It is something we have been calling for now, for more than ten years. Very close to Algeria, there is a conflict between the Polisario Front and the Kingdom of Morocco that has been going on for almost 30 years. It is a decolonization issue that has not been resolved. The United Nations has clearly established that Western Sahara remains a non-self-governing territory under Security Council resolution 1541 (2004). As in the case of Brunei, Surinam, Belize and Timor-Leste, the peace plan was unanimously accepted by the Security Council and provides a just and definitive framework for a settlement, through the Saharawi peopleís free exercise of their inalienable right to self-determination. In seeking a satisfactory solution, Algeria has always supported the Secretary-General of the United Nations and his personal envoy, Mr. James Baker, who has truly earned the respect of our Organization for his tireless efforts. Algeria will continue to support the United Nations peace plan and remains fully available to contribute towards the implementation of the plan, in order to strengthen stability in our region and solidarity among our peoples. Here I would reiterate that Algeria cannot decide the future of the Western Sahara for its people and does not want to do so. Any attempt to address the issue of the Western Sahara in a context other than that of completing the decolonization process - part of the responsibility of the United Nations - will result in the failure of that process and will delay a final settlement. Intensive efforts are underway within the African Union to ensure peace and security in Africa, efforts that are leading to prospects for settlement of regional conflicts. Those efforts reflect Africaís firm resolve to become part of a new era of stability, security and progress. The conditions for establishing a genuinely balanced and mutually beneficial partnership between Africa and its partners through the New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD), have never been as favourable as they are today. A promising change in that relationship is now emerging and gaining importance. For that reason it is extremely important to continue encouraging Africa as it seeks to succeed in its work towards peace, development and integration, which it has firmly started. 31 In the occupied Palestinian territories the peace process is deadlocked, more than ever before. It is now more difficult to find a just and lasting solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict because of the brutal repression of Palestinian civilians; endless attacks against the Palestinian Authority, its institutions and its leaders; the continuation of a settlement policy; the building of the separation wall, in violation of international law as affirmed by the International Court of Justice; Israelís rejection of obligations entered into in Oslo and its manoeuvering to take everything of substance away from the road map. In that same region, the Iraqi people face a tragic situation and many complex challenges that require the support of the international community and the United Nations. At the dawn of the millennium, we all undertook to take up the challenges that we wanted to face together through a responsible global partnership. In all sincerity, can we be content with the meager results achieved to date? It is our hope that the summit in 2005, incidentally the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations, will be an opportunity for us to confirm our commitments and to finally take the bold steps that are needed to translate commitments into action, to eradicate poverty, destitution and deprivation, promote sustainable development and ensure peace and stability for all peoples.As the head of Lebanon's delegation to the General Assembly, I am pleased to congratulate Mr. Ping on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I wish him success in his presidency. I also want to acclaim the special relationship that my country has with his and to express our gratitude for the support which his country, Gabon, gives to our large Lebanese community working there and enjoying its hospitality. I also wish to thank his predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his effective leadership as President of the Assembly at the fifty-eighth session. Secretary-General Annan has earned our respect and appreciation for the efforts he has made to further the United Nations goal of working for a just, secure and peaceful world. In past years, we in Lebanon used to come to this forum seeking United Nations help. The United Nations has always come to our support, adopting resolutions affirming Lebanonís independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. We must express our gratitude to the United Nations for dispatching the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, stationed on our frontiers with Israel, and for the continuing and effective aid we get from the Organizationís specialized agencies. Today, we come to this forum with a different objective. Our country is in good shape. It has regained its position in the region. We have moved from destruction to construction, from rule by the militias to the rule of law, from anarchy to stability and security, and from division to unity. In the 1970s and 1980s, ìLebanonizationî became a bad word. It stood for anarchy and infighting. Now, however, ìLebanonizationî has regained its true, original meaning as a term standing for democracy, freedom, pluralism and recognition of the other. Early this month, the Security Council adopted its resolution 1559 (2004), concerning Lebanon. The resolution has two dimensions, one regional, the other internal. As for the regional dimension, the resolution calls for the withdrawal of all foreign forces still in Lebanon. There are Israeli forces occupying part of Lebanon: the Shebaía farms and the surrounding area. Together with the rest of the Assembly, we call for the immediate withdrawal of those forces. From this rostrum, we also call upon Israel to halt its daily violations of our airspace. There are also Syrian forces in Lebanon. Those forces are on our territory at the request of the Lebanese Government and in accordance with agreements signed by the two parties. Lebanon will accept the presence of those troops as long as the security situation in the region merits it. It is Lebanonís policy that not a single non-Lebanese soldier should remain on its soil. Our disagreement with the United Nations concerning the withdrawal of Syrian forces lies in the timing of the withdrawal; it is not a disagreement on the principle of withdrawal. The timing is under continuous discussion between the Lebanese and Syrian Governments; it will depend on their assessment of the security situation in the region. It is also the policy of Lebanon to support the national resistance movement, which played an important role in forcing Israel to withdraw from southern Lebanon. As for the Council's resolution's internal dimension - relating to the amendment of our Constitution - we consider it an unacceptable intervention in our internal affairs. Our Constitution, which was promulgated in 1926, may be the oldest 34 democratic constitution in the entire Middle East. Successive Lebanese Parliaments have amended it many times, always in accordance with its own amendment mechanisms and by absolute majorities. Lebanon is a civilized democratic country. It abides by international law and reveres the moral principles and values on which it is based. My country was a founding Member of the United Nations in 1945. It played a leading role in the formulation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. And, from this rostrum, Lebanon has exposed and opposed all destructive and disruptive ideologies and movements that we felt impeded the course of civilization and the future of humanity. Today, we stand together with the United Nations in opposing international terrorism in all its forms. Lebanon has witnessed the horrors of terrorism on its soil; it has witnessed innocent people being kidnapped, tortured and killed. It knows what terrorism is all about, and, as a result of first-hand knowledge, it condemns it in the strongest terms. We also condemn those who wilfully confuse terrorism with the struggle for national liberation and independence. There are those who exploit the universal revulsion against terrorism to smear national liberation movements by branding them as terrorist. National liberation is a right and an honour; terrorism is a crime and cowardice. Lebanon has recovered its stability and freedom. We are not here to ask anything specific for ourselves. We do, however, ask that the United Nations devote more attention to our region. The region is in turmoil, and it looks to the United Nations to help establish peace. The Organization has been granted legitimacy by all nations in its quest to ensure peace and stability. We ask the following of the United Nations. First, the Organization should increase its efforts to solve the Middle East problem. It should do so by implementing its resolutions concerning Israel's withdrawal from the territories it occupied in 1967, by giving the Palestinians an independent sovereign State and by ensuring the return of Palestinian refugees to their homeland. The more the Middle East conflict is allowed to fester, the more difficult it will be to resolve and the more danger and war there will be in the region. Secondly, the United Nations should assume greater responsibility in resolving the violent conflict in Iraq and in restoring peace, stability and unity to the Iraqis. The Iraqis have suffered greatly, and they deserve strong and continuing support from the United Nations so that they can build a free, just and democratic order. Thirdly, the Organization should help the Middle East region to achieve a new stable order based on just and equitable solutions and on the right to self- determination, since that region is the birthplace of the three monotheistic religions. The United Nations should also put an end to the arms race and to the waste of capabilities and rid the region of weapons of mass destruction. Fourthly, the United Nations should encourage the establishment of civil organizations as a necessary first step in the process of reform and democratization. It is difficult to build an accountable democratic system without diverse and pluralistic civil institutions. Democracy is based on political parties, trade unions, civil institutions, humanitarian organizations and associations of all kinds, which are the foundations of reform and democracy. Lebanon has a clear vision about the future of the region and of its civilization. It wants to play a decisive role in that future, as it did in forging an Eastern civilization in the region, based on the most profound principles of Christianity and Islam. Lebanon is an international country, bigger than its size and population, due to its emigrants, who inhabit every nook and cranny of the world. Wherever they may be, the Lebanese are emissaries of innovation and production. Some countries may take pride in exporting weapons and in deploying armies, but Lebanon, since the dawn of history, has prided itself on exporting its precious young people, who, in all continents, assume the highest posts in universities, research centres, industries and businesses. Lebanon supports the United Nations because of its universal views on humanity and its future. In the past, my country may have suffered precisely because of its universalism, its openness and its freedom. Because Lebanon has given much, Lebanon deserves much. Finally, I wish the General Assembly and its Main Committees every success in addressing the many important items on the agenda. Lebanon will participate actively in all these proceedings, in any way that will help to attain the objectives of the United Nations and advance the universal cause of freedom and peace.I am pleased to express to you, Sir, and to your friendly country, Gabon, our sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. We are confident that you will lead the work of this session in a highly capable and efficient manner. I should also like to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, who, as President of the last session of the Assembly, managed its affairs with wisdom and skill. On this occasion, I should like to convey the deep appreciation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan for his sustained, diligent and commendable efforts to maintain international peace and security and to revitalize the role of the United Nations and enhance its functions, capacities, credibility and effectiveness. In that regard, the speech given by the Secretary-General last week is notable and praiseworthy, as it provided a blueprint and guidelines for enhancing the resiliency of the international order. It is crucial when tackling global issues to bridge the gaps in the international order so that measures are not applied selectively or arbitrarily. The accelerating global changes and the grave challenges facing the international community today necessitate more than ever a scrutiny of the working methods of the United Nations, as well as the structures and functions of its organs, in order to enhance its ability to prevent and resolve conflicts and to maintain international peace and security. In that respect, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia supports the call for reform of the Security Council, in particular, an increase in its membership in order to improve geographical representation, a greater transparency in its work, a halt to the application of double standards and the adoption of measures that will enhance the credibility of the Council’s work and guarantee respect for, and compliance with, its resolutions. Among the important reforms needed in our Organization is restriction of the veto power. Permanent members of the Security Council should not be allowed to invoke their right of veto in cases where proposed resolutions and procedures are adopted to implement previously agreed resolutions. It is also imperative to establish an optimal balance between the General Assembly and the Security Council, to enhance the role of the Economic and Social Council and to establish closer coordination 18 among the various United Nations funds, programmes and activities. We reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations and the multilateral international order. Today, more than ever, the international community is in dire need of a unified and mutually supportive stance in order to achieve just solutions to the current problems we all face. It is through respect for the shared values, traditions and principles that are deeply rooted in the conscience of all mankind that we can promote constructive cooperation and the achievement of security, peace, stability and prosperity for all nations. Humanity has been afflicted by the growing danger of terrorism. It is a phenomenon that does not differentiate between societies. Increasingly, terrorist groups have been crossing borders and expanding their networks into different regions, nations and continents. Today, it is therefore critical that we exert every effort possible to increase international cooperation to combat terrorism and confront those who instigate and finance it. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia rejects terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and is cooperating with the international community to eliminate that global evil. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has affirmed its full support for the Security Council resolutions relating to terrorism. In that regard, Saudi Arabia has taken the necessary steps to close any loopholes in its domestic regulations on charitable fund-raising activities that might allow such funds to be used for illicit purposes. We have established a public commission tasked with supervising and organizing the activities of all charitable and relief organizations with a view to streamlining their operations and preventing those with bad intentions and evil objectives from using their humanitarian funds for illegal purposes. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was among the first signatories of the Arab Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism and other similar agreements emanating from the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Arab Gulf Cooperation Council. In addition, it has acceded to nine other international anti- terrorism conventions and agreements. In that regard, the Government of Saudi Arabia has recently taken a series of measures that are indicative of its seriousness and determination to fight terrorism. Its strategy of preventive action to forestall criminal acts has already been successful in the fight against this deadly scourge and has earned the praise and admiration of the international community and international organizations. It is important to remember that crimes committed by a handful of criminals and misguided felons cannot justify incriminating a whole society or an entire culture. Terrorism can strike any city and target any interests, regardless of the nationality, religion or ethnic origin of the victims. Terrorism is a global phenomenon that calls for joint action and cooperation by all countries and requires the close collaboration of concerned international organizations to effectively find the means to confront it and eliminate it. It is on the basis of the foregoing that I am pleased to announce before this gathering that the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has decided to host an international conference to combat terrorism, to be held in Riyadh from 5 to 8 February 2005. Its purpose is to exchange information and experience in the field of combating terrorism and to see how we can cooperate with other countries in the fight against that universal threat. We also intend to use this excellent opportunity to learn about scientific and practical techniques relevant not only to combating terrorism, but also to the prevention of money- laundering, drug trafficking and arms smuggling. The conference will also provide a good forum in which to study the culture and psychology of terrorists and the structure of terrorist organizations. Official invitations to the anti-terrorism conference have already been extended to concerned international organizations as well as to countries that have suffered or are suffering from terrorism. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia welcomes the participation of all those invited and hopes that the outcome and final recommendations of the conference will constitute an important addition and a great support to international efforts to eradicate terrorism and address the root causes of that dangerous phenomenon. The setback in the peace process and the mounting wave of violence and extremism in our region are largely attributable to the Israeli Government’s pursuit of policies that are totally incompatible with the fundamental principles of the peace process, notably the principle of land for peace. Israel’s actions are in contravention of Security Council resolutions — in particular, resolutions 242 (1967) and 19 338 (1973) — and the road map. They are incompatible with the United States Administration’s vision of two States — an Israeli State and an independent Palestinian State — living side by side. The Arab peace initiative continues to stand as a credible basis for the security and stability of all the peoples of the region because it ensures a lasting, just and comprehensive solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict. It is therefore incumbent upon all of us to exert our utmost efforts to put the peace process back on track. It is particularly important to push the peace process forward after it has stalled and after the humanitarian plight of the Palestinian people — which should be a goad to the conscience of the international community — has been met with indifference. Furthermore, peace cannot be achieved by unilateral Israeli measures that create new realities on the ground and that are designed to prejudice the final outcome of any political negotiations on the delicate issue of a final settlement. The Palestinian question cannot be solved, nor can the Arab-Israeli conflict be ended, through the use of excessive force — aerial bombardment, guided missiles, assassination of Palestinian activists, destruction of infrastructure, usurpation of property, violation of rights and the imposition of collective punishment. Peace will be achieved and security will prevail only when United Nations resolutions are implemented, the provisions of international law are respected and applied and the principles of justice and equality are observed. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia condemns the continuous escalation against the Palestinian people and the Israeli Government’s insistence on establishing and expanding its settlements. We also condemn the continued construction of the separation wall that has annexed extensive Palestinian lands in unprecedented defiance of the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, which acknowledged the illegality of the wall and ordered Israel to dismantle it, as well as the General Assembly resolution that followed that opinion, effectively demonstrating the consensus of the international community on the issue. However, if Israel is serious about withdrawing from Gaza and about dismantling its settlements there, we stress that such an action should proceed in coordination with the Palestinian Authority, in conformity with the requirements of the road map and under the supervision of the Quartet. The proposed withdrawal should come about as a first step towards a complete and full withdrawal from all the Palestinian lands, including Al-Quds. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is closely monitoring efforts to eliminate all forms of weapons of mass destruction from the Middle East and to keep it free from all such lethal weapons. In that respect, we call upon the international community to adopt an even-handed approach, refrain from applying double standards, assume its legal and moral responsibilities and urge the Israeli Government to refrain from the development of its nuclear programmes, as well as subject its nuclear installations to the inspection and safeguards regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency. We are profoundly distressed and gravely concerned at the deteriorating security situation in some parts of Iraq, where tragic incidents, heinous acts of violence, and the horrific kidnapping of innocent people seem to be daily occurrences. Faced with this appalling reality, we can only urge the Iraqi people and all Iraqi factions to mend fences and work hand in hand to support the efforts of their transitional Government to establish the security, safety and well- being of their country; preserve its national unity and independence and ensure the restoration of Iraq’s effective and positive role in the international arena. We also call upon the United Nations to play a greater role in assisting the Iraqi Government to meet the requirements of the ongoing political process, including by conducting general elections, which we hope will lead to a permanent legitimate Government, and proceeding with reconstruction efforts. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has presented some ideas regarding the deployment of Islamic troops in Iraq. With the consent of the Iraqi Government and under United Nations supervision, we would like such troops not to supplement, but to replace, the multilateral forces. Those ideas, however, have not materialized, although their basic premise deserves consideration and follow-up. With respect to developments in the brotherly country of the Sudan, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is profoundly moved by the humanitarian tragedy in Darfur and supports the efforts of the Government of the Sudan to restore stability in that region. We support the Sudan’s cooperation with relief and humanitarian organizations and others in addressing the 20 humanitarian situation resulting from the crisis. We hope that the efforts of the Government of the Sudan and those of the African Union will be given sufficient time to restore security to the region and to ensure the well-being of its people. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has initiated an ongoing airlift operation, using Saudi cargo planes, to provide direct humanitarian assistance to the Darfur region. This assistance includes medical and food supplies, tents and power generators. Moreover, there are Saudi relief teams in the region who have established clinics and hospitals inside camps and equipped them with doctors, medicine, medical supplies and tests. In addition, wells have been dug to provide the camps with drinking water, and electricity is being supplied. Human development and economic prosperity are major keys to achieving a better future for developing countries. To reach that objective, developed and developing nations can work together to achieve great success. My country has contributed to this process by adopting and implementing numerous development projects and by extending generous assistance to developing and least developed countries through national, regional and international agencies, in order to help them in overcoming the problems of poverty and underdevelopment. We appreciate the concern expressed by the Group of Eight at their summit in Sea Island, Georgia, in the United States, regarding the future of the Middle East and their desire to help the countries of the region develop and make progress. However, we believe that political and economic reforms should not be imposed or dictated from outside; rather, international assistance in this area should serve as a catalyst to help these nations initiate their own reforms. Outside interference on the question of reform can only result in disrupting and stalling processes that are already under way. For reforms to be effective and lasting, they should reflect the actual needs of the societies concerned and should conform with a given State’s stage of development. Of course, there is much that the advanced countries can do to help in this process, especially in the areas of investment, trade liberalization, international economic cooperation and the opening of their markets. We believe that removing protective measures, such as trade barriers and tariffs, and eliminating preferential treatment that hinders the ability of developing countries to enter the markets of developed countries can go far in achieving desired development goals. There is, moreover, a need to make the necessary effort to help those countries to overcome their problems and their chronic political conflicts. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, based on its position of responsibility and its effective role in the international oil market, has consistently sought to meet its obligations to maintain stable oil markets and ensure continuing world economic growth. To that end, it has increased its production capacity to ensure sufficient supply and to control unnatural oil price surges. In this regard, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia took the initiative of establishing the International Energy Forum and hosting its general secretariat in Riyadh. The Forum has become a platform for discussing ways and means of cooperation and dialogue between consumer and producer countries, whether within or outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Those countries should seek to intensify their cooperation in order to ensure stable markets for the strategic commodity of petroleum, and to guarantee the continued growth of the global economy. In view of the tragic security events on the international scene, the world needs, more than ever, concerted international efforts to increase dialogue and raise the level of understanding, mutual contact and familiarity among nations and cultures. The world needs to embark on a serious effort to propagate a culture of peace, in order to achieve for our fellow human beings the dignity and prosperity they deserve. We need to do more to put an end to the wave of violence and work for the achievement of justice and the termination of racial discrimination. God Almighty said in the Holy Qur’an: “O mankind! We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a female, And made you into Nations and tribes, that ye may know each other. Verily the most honoured of you in the sight of Allah is (he who is) the most righteous of you.”Let me first of all congratulate you, President Ping, on your election and wish you every success in your responsible post, and express my sincere thanks to the outgoing President for his dedicated work. I endorse the statement of the Netherlands European Union presidency. At the dawn of the twenty-first century, the world is changing at dramatic speed. In just a few decades, humanity will have reached the 8 billion mark. With the networking of world trade and with global communication technologies, we are growing ever closer. We are going to become increasingly interdependent in economic, technical and ecological terms. At the same time, we all face a host of new challenges and new dangers which threaten us all — the South and the North, the developing and the developed world alike. On the one hand, there are threats to national and global security such as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the nuclear threat, the danger posed by failed States or, as we all painfully remember in this city, by terrorism, which does not respect humankind or human dignity. On the other hand, there are also so-called soft threats, such as far-reaching environmental and climatic changes, poverty, major shortfalls in education and training and the negative aspects of globalization, refugee flows, and diseases and epidemics such as HIV/AIDS and malaria. They are a threat to security and stability and take a heavy toll. The two — hard and soft threats — are closely connected. After all, we know that the causes of war and violence, poverty, need and oppression are multifaceted and deep-rooted. We also know that crises are the fruit of poverty and a sense of hopelessness, and vice-versa. We will have no peace without development, nor indeed development without peace, so we have comprehensively to secure peace and stability — above all through economic and social development. The States of the world have to work together to shape economic, technological and ecological globalization and rise to the resulting challenges. They will not be able to do so without close cooperation. Indeed, that is now beyond the tools of traditional diplomacy alone. Their ability to secure and stabilize the international system on their own will in future prove less and less adequate. What we need is a far-reaching reform of the international system and its institutions that takes due account of these changes. That is a reform we need urgently, because we have to create an effective multilateral system which enables us to work together to prevent crises and, where that does not work, find long-term solutions. There have already been promising developments at the regional level. With their sometimes painful history very much in mind, the States of Europe have joined together in the European Union and thus have reached a new level of multilateralism. This political and economic community, now embracing 25 States, has become an anchor of stability for Europe and beyond. Since its foundation the African Union has been impressively shouldering its shared responsibility for preventing humanitarian disasters and resolving major regional conflicts. This is a courageous and key step forward. This breakthrough of multilateralism on the African continent will develop an ever more pronounced dynamism. Given global interdependencies and connections, we need a world organization that has close links to these regional structures and can thus boost the efficiency of joint action. The United Nations is the most important forum for setting global rules. Its might is the might of the right, as the Secretary-General highlighted in his impressive speech at the opening of this General Assembly session. With its legitimacy we have a unique and universal competence for solving problems together. Since the breaking of the internal blockade caused by the cold war, the United Nations has been playing an increasingly significant role. The international community is making more and more use of it as a forum for tackling the major challenges facing humanity. For millions of people today the Blue Flag means quite tangible help, often on essential issues, and hope for a better future. For this, we are all very much indebted to the Organization and its staff. They are on the ground in many crisis regions in Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia. It is becoming ever clearer that different approaches must be found to prevent or resolve each 17 individual crisis. The commitment of the United Nations in all crisis areas is the proof. In Afghanistan and in the Balkans, in Haiti and in the Great Lakes region the United Nations is already making a considerable contribution. But we must realize that there will not be fewer conflicts in the future, and the demands made of the Organization will grow. Against this backdrop the question arises whether the structures given to the United Nations at its foundation almost sixty years ago are still suited to this mandate, whether its work enjoys the international acceptance it needs. In particular, the disputes concerning the Iraq crisis highlighted this problem once again. We are convinced there is no alternative to a world acting multilaterally. To make this multilateral cooperation sustainable and capable, we need a courageous and comprehensive reform of the United Nations that faces up to the challenges we are facing. It was the Secretary-General himself who took the initiative, and for this we extend our thanks. To that end, he appointed a panel of high-level international experts who are to present him with reform proposals at the end of the year. We look forward to that report and the ensuing debate with great interest. What is at stake is a new, shared understanding of the Charter system. How can we shape prevention to make it more effective, and peace-building to make it more sustainable? How can we further implement the proposals on the reform of peacekeeping? What exactly do we understand by the right of self-defence? How do we define terrorism? The answer to this question in particular seems clear, yet real agreement would take us, the international community of States, a step forward. A number of very concrete proposals on the reform of the United Nations institutions have already been presented. Let me therefore outline some thoughts on this matter. I want to start with the General Assembly. It is the central organ of the United Nations, the only one with universal membership. For this very reason, the Assembly has to be more than an annual forum where we just go through the motions. What we need to do first is focus our topics more carefully. We have to discuss the truly crucial issues — otherwise, essential questions will be dealt with in other forums. Secondly, we need more efficient working methods. The Economic and Social Council has to finally become the central organ in the United Nations system for consultation and decision-making on economic and social issues. We believe that the Council has at two levels vast potential that has yet to be fully tapped. On the one hand, that body maintains a network of expertise unequalled in the world. We have to make better and more targeted use of it. On the other hand, we see the Economic and Social Council as a partner for the Security Council for peacekeeping, as laid down in Article 65 of the Charter. When it comes to fighting the causes of conflicts and to post-crisis rehabilitation, the Economic and Social Council has an important role to play that can support Security Council efforts for conflict prevention and peace- building. We should grant the Economic and Social Council more competences in the operative sphere. After all, the efforts we make in peace missions will be successful only if the military commitment is followed by a longer phase of stabilization, and very often that phase turns out to be the most difficult one. The Economic and Social Council advisory groups on post-crisis rehabilitation in Africa are a step in the right direction. That is what the decisive link between conflict management and development cooperation could indeed look like. Such an all-embracing approach needs appropriate financial resources. The instrument of voluntary contributions has proven insufficient in everyday life, and therefore I propose earmarking a certain share of the United Nations peacekeeping budget for post-crisis rehabilitation. This means we could achieve what we have long been trying, a “prevention share”, which — let us remember Haiti — could help us save the costs of conflicts flaring up again. Many criticize the proliferation of subsidiary and subordinate organizations of the United Nations. Of course, a reduction cannot be an end in itself. But we ought to exercise enough self-criticism to ask ourselves whether it would not be better to pool competences in some cases. However, there are also spheres that need to be better equipped. I am thinking here, for example, of the handling of environmental issues in the United Nations system. We thus support the proposal made by French President Jacques Chirac last year to upgrade the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to a specialized agency with universal membership. That 18 could considerably strengthen UNFP’s contribution to sustainable development. At the heart of the reform of the United Nations is the organ shouldering the central responsibility for international peace: the Security Council. Conflicts are on the increase. They stretch across all continents, and they are growing in complexity. In turn, the responsibility and competences of the Council have expanded constantly. Crisis prevention will play an increasingly important role. And for peace-building, ever more comprehensive strategies, closer cooperation and additional resources will be needed. This will mean more and more decisions that entail long-term obligations, create new international law and make major inroads into State sovereignty. If we really want Security Council decisions to be accepted as legitimate and implemented effectively, we have to reform the Council. It has to more broadly represent a world organization that today embraces more than 191 countries. That is inconceivable without increasing the number of seats — for permanent and non-permanent members alike. The reasons behind such a move speak for themselves. A Council with more members would enjoy greater acceptance internationally as a basis for greater authority. The more balanced and comprehensive representation of all continents — also among the permanent members — would lead to a better sense of ownership of the Security Council for all States. Similarly, an enlargement would considerably bolster the motivation of the new Council members to make a long-term contribution to realizing the goals of the United Nations. The enlargement must adequately reflect sea changes such as decolonization, the end of the cold war and globalization. The composition of the Council must ultimately mirror the current geopolitical reality. That means that all major regions of the South must be represented by permanent members in the Security Council. At the same time, account has to be taken of Members that can and want to make a particularly meaningful and sustainable contribution to maintaining world peace and international security and to realizing the purposes of the Organization. That twofold approach would increase the Council’s efficiency and its ability to act and to assert itself. For 40 years, the composition of the Security Council has remained unchanged. I believe it is high time to adapt it to the new global reality. Half-baked or interim solutions are neither necessary nor helpful. Like Brazil, India and Japan, Germany too is ready to take on the responsibility associated with a permanent seat in the security Council. But it is especially important to us that the African continent be represented among the new permanent members. A second aspect also has to be taken into account in Security Council reform. All in all, a greater number of Member States that are engaging themselves in the work of the United Nations should be able to get more involved in the work of the Security Council. For that to happen, additional non-permanent seats also have to be created. That would mean that the balance between permanent and non-permanent members could be retained. As I said before, United Nations reform will be the central and defining theme of this General Assembly session. I thus call upon Member States: let us use the fifty-ninth session, right up until the next session in 2005, to launch the overdue reforms and achieve tangible results. We, the Member States, have to muster the political insight, the will and the creativity to adapt the Organization to the global reality. Germany is ready to make a committed contribution.Mr. President, on behalf of the Government and the people of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, I extend congratulations to Mr. Ping on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- ninth session. We are confident that his experience and diplomatic skills will enable him to discharge fully the weighty responsibilities of his office. Permit me to convey to his predecessor, The Honourable Julian Hunte, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, our deep appreciation of his efforts towards revitalization of the General Assembly. I wish also to convey to our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, the full support of the Government and the people of Trinidad and Tobago as he continues the global initiatives of the United Nations towards making the world better and safer for all humanity. Today Trinidad and Tobago is celebrating its twenty-eighth anniversary as a republic. Over our 42 years as an independent country, we have made significant strides in the development of our nation. We have maintained a strong tradition of democratic 7 governance through an increasingly inclusive and multiparty political system; by respecting fully the constitutionally entrenched and internationally recognized fundamental human rights and freedoms of the individual; and by ensuring strict adherence to the rule of law. We have sought increasingly to diversify our economic base. Through consistent and sound macro- economic policies, together with prudent management and use of our resources, we have sustained more than a decade of positive economic growth, which last year was of the order of 13.2 per cent. Our country has made significant strides in advancing the capabilities of our people through universal access to primary and secondary education. We have gone further through our State-sponsored preschool programme, which targets universal early childhood education by 2010, and by fully opening the gateway to tertiary education through support for every student, enhanced funding for deserving ones, and our recently established University of Trinidad and Tobago. Our archipelagic Republic, populated by 1.3 million people of African, Indian, European, Chinese, Middle Eastern and mixed ancestries, constitutes a veritable microcosm of the people of the world. However, we have been able to foster racial harmony and religious tolerance through the collective embrace of the diversity of our people. That approach, together with adherence to integrity and transparency in public affairs and equality of opportunity for all, has been essential to the continued peace, stability and progress we enjoy as we propose to make Trinidad and Tobago a beacon of integrity in the world. Trinidad and Tobago has demonstrated remarkable strength and resilience in the face of a global environment characterized by rapid economic, social and other changes; this has mobilized us to embark on the realization of a bold new vision in the pursuit of our developmental agenda. In that respect, our Government and people are currently engaged in a highly participatory consultative process aimed at formulating a National Strategic Development Plan to guide Trinidad and Tobago towards becoming a developed nation by the year 2020 or earlier. It is called Vision 2020, and its agenda includes human capital development; the evolution of a technologically driven, knowledge-based society; the development of a highly productive and globally competitive economy; and, by the year 2020, the provision for all our citizens of a standard of living comparable to that enjoyed in developed countries. Our achievements stand in indisputable testimony to what a small, independent nation such as ours can do in that regard. There is an instructive link between two of the features that today define and distinguish our country among others in the region. One is our oil and natural gas resources — the foundation and mainstay of our economy; the other, the steelpan, our creation derived from heating and tuning the top of discarded oil drums. The steelpan is one of the most important musical instruments invented during the last century. We are proud to have created it, and equally so of its growing international recognition and popularity, which is an apt reflection of the phenomenal ingenuity of the peoples of developing countries. The same holds true in respect of achievements in our energy sector. At just over 130,000 barrels of oil per day, Trinidad and Tobago’s production is not significant by international standards. Our natural gas production, however, stands at 2.9 billion cubic feet per day, and that has propelled my country to become today the world’s largest exporter of methanol and also of ammonia. We are currently supplying 80 per cent of United States liquid natural gas imports out of our three trains, and we propose to leverage that fact towards Caribbean regional development. We are also a critical supplier of energy to our Caribbean neighbours. To further facilitate this, we are exploring the feasibility of several energy-related projects, including the establishment of a natural gas pipeline through the eastern Caribbean. We have also entered into a joint venture with neighbouring Venezuela to liquefy that country’s natural gas in Trinidad and Tobago. Meanwhile, our iron and steel production facilities are being expanded. Several new production facilities are in train, among them an ethylene production complex, an aluminium smelter project, and others for expanded ammonia and methanol production as well as other downstream petrochemical products. The combination of an attractive and enabling investment climate, available and affordable energy, a 8 strategic location vis-à-vis the North, Central and South American and European markets, a population literacy level of over 90 per cent, and a sound work ethic, as well as a good communications infrastructure, continue to make Trinidad and Tobago one of the largest per-capita recipients of foreign direct investment in the hemisphere. Indeed, last year we were the second-largest recipient after Canada. Like other countries we, too, have our fair share of challenges. For example, our strategic location — less than nine miles off the South American coast and to the south of the Caribbean island chain, with excellent air and sea transport links to major North Atlantic cities — renders Trinidad and Tobago highly vulnerable to trade in illegal drugs and firearms. Combating narco-trafficking, drug-related crimes and the spread of HIV/AIDS is among our greatest challenges, but the Government of Trinidad and Tobago remains resolute in its determination to eradicate those scourges. We continue to implement the measures necessary to fight them and are confident that we shall win the battle. Our development agenda is not centred solely on the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. It is part and parcel of a pan-Caribbean agenda to which we are irrevocably and solidly committed, and which takes into consideration the fullest development of the countries of our region. Many historical and other ties bind our Caribbean nations and we understand that the fundamental basis for our development lies in being able to work more closely together to exert a greater influence on our own as well as global development, which for centuries have been dictated by others. Today, our level of functional cooperation in the region has increased over a range of areas and Trinidad and Tobago continues to play a central role at all levels. We therefore look forward to the operationalization of our newest Caribbean institution, the Caribbean Court of Justice, which will serve as the arbitral body for the soon-to-be-established CARICOM Single Market and Economy, as well as the region’s final appellate Court, and will be headquartered in Port of Spain. The development of Trinidad and Tobago and CARICOM are intertwined. CARICOM is our second largest export market after the United States of America, absorbing close to 20 per cent of our exports. Our share of regional trade grew to 80 per cent in 2001. Since 1996, we have contributed approximately US$ 1.4 billion in assistance to Caribbean States through a variety of mechanisms including capital market activities, foreign direct investment, debt relief, and direct assistance. Last year we provided US$ 505 million in loans to companies and Governments in the region, some of whom have difficulty in borrowing on the international market. In addition, we have recently established a new grant facility, to be based on sales of petroleum products to the region, which will be dedicated to poverty eradication within CARICOM. My country sees the development of the Caribbean, our second largest market, as integral to the development of Trinidad and Tobago. Even so, our national and regional development efforts require an international economic environment of greater sensitivity, one facilitating a more beneficial integration of developing countries into the world economy. In that regard, as sanguine as we are about the future of Trinidad and Tobago, I must on this occasion take a stand in the interest of the beleaguered nations of the Caribbean. How often have small independent States preached from this very mountaintop of the need for multilateral trading arrangements that take into account the inherent vulnerabilities of small island developing States, and consequently the need to be accorded special and differential treatment? There is a notable reluctance of some partner countries to respond accordingly, and that continues to have negative consequences, especially for the small economies of the Caribbean. Trinidad and Tobago therefore stands resolute with our developing country partners in calling for what must be conceived of as the application of a social conscience within the management of globalization and its processes. As capital importing economies, the developing countries of the Caribbean are only too well aware, sometimes painfully so, of the implications of capital shortage for the generation of employment and the provision of housing, education and health care for our citizens. And perhaps I speak even for those yet unborn. It is through softer trading arrangements, increased financial flows and the consequent empowerment of our citizens that we will be able to realize the most central of all the Millennium Development Goals, the eradication of poverty. The implications are clear. The course on which some of our European Union (EU) country partners are 9 embarked will render the achievement of our Millennium Development Goals more difficult. In speaking of those goals our attention is now drawn to Haiti, our newest CARICOM member, where over 1,000 people died from the onslaught of Hurricane Jeanne, further aggravating the tremendous problems that that nation already suffers. Trinidad and Tobago therefore welcomes the decision taken by the Security Council in its resolution 1542 (2004) of 30 April 2004 to establish the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. We also support the recent decision by the Economic and Social Council to reactivate its Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Haiti to promote the coordination and development of a long-term programme of assistance to that country. We believe that those efforts by the international community will contribute significantly to the stability and urgently needed development of Haiti. At this juncture, however, Haiti needs a tremendous outpouring of international humanitarian assistance. The same holds true for Grenada and several other Caribbean States whose misfortune it was to have been visited by “Ivan, the Terrible”. On 8 September, Hurricane Ivan descended on Grenada. In less than two hours it had completely destroyed the economy and infrastructure of Grenada, ravaging that country beyond description. Ninety percent of the buildings on the island were damaged or destroyed. A primarily agricultural economy, dependent also on tourism, all of Grenada’s crops disappeared with the strong wind. CARICOM leaders were recently advised by a Grenadian representative that today Grenada has no gross domestic product. Before visiting Grenada, Hurricane Ivan — sowing varying amounts of disruption and destruction — visited Tobago and Barbados. After Grenada, it proceeded to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Jamaica, the Cayman Islands, Cuba, Bahamas and the southern United States. Everywhere there was considerable damage, but Grenada and the Cayman Islands were the hardest hit. Before Ivan, there was Charley and Frances. After Ivan came Jeanne, with death and destruction for Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and Haiti. A number of CARICOM countries are now saddled with the immense challenge of trying to restore normalcy. Permit me to ask, to what extent have these obvious climate changes been influenced by incursions into space from planet Earth, or for that matter by ecological imbalances caused by industrialization? In the aftermath of the devastation visited on Grenada, CARICOM countries have been rallying to the assistance of that island, and must be applauded for their massive outpouring of humanitarian aid that continues to flow to Grenada. In that regard, permit me to recognize and applaud the most appropriate response of the Secretary-General. Trinidad and Tobago pledges its support to our beleaguered Caribbean neighbours, and we have thus committed ourselves through direct financial and other assistance. But what Grenada and Haiti require is well beyond the region’s capacity to deliver. I urge the wider international community and donor agencies to respond adequately and to play their part. Help is needed and needed now. The catastrophic events of the present hurricane season bring into sharper focus yet another dimension of the vulnerability of Caribbean countries. The January 2005 International Meeting in Mauritius to review the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action must seek to comprehensively address the new and emerging threats to the sustainable development of small island developing States. The international community should take note that a whole new set of security issues have now arisen in the Caribbean as a result of those developments. The answer to so many of our problems lies in multilateralism, if approached the right way. Belief in and respect for multilateralism led to Trinidad and Tobago’s respect for all major global and regional forums. Today, we are active participants in the creation of the free trade area of the Americas, which, when realized, will stretch from Alaska in the north to Tierra del Fuego in the south, creating a market of more than 800 million consumers and generating tremendous opportunity for economic and social development. Our region’s commitment to that hemispheric integration process has led Trinidad and Tobago and its partners in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) to propose our capital city, Port-of-Spain, as the ideal location for the seat of the proposed permanent secretariat of the free trade area of the Americas. Unanimous regional support for this CARICOM proposal would demonstrate the hemisphere’s 10 solidarity with one of its smaller members and give true meaning to the principle of the sovereign equality of all States. It would further decentralize the headquartering of major international and regional organizations and enable a small island developing State to place its resources at the service of the hemispheric community. Accordingly, we look forward to receiving the support of all our neighbours in the hemisphere. We remain pleased with the progress of certain multilateral initiatives, including the New African Partnership for Development, which I urge CARICOM and African countries to support by exploring opportunities to develop investment, trade, tourism and regular transport routes between our region and the African continent. We also consider the establishment of the International Criminal Court to be a major achievement, and we urge partner countries to uphold the integrity of the Rome Statute. The commission of war crimes, genocide and other such crimes against humanity has been facilitated by a global culture of impunity. The people of the world will be safe only when the perpetrators of such crimes know that punishment is inescapable. Trinidad and Tobago condemns all forms and manifestations of terrorism, wherever and by whomever they are committed. We are already a party to the principal international legal instruments against terrorism, and the Government will shortly take parliamentary action to enact legislation honouring our obligations with respect to the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. As the international community continues to confront the many threats to the survival of mankind, the world’s political leadership must unequivocally reaffirm its commitment to the United Nations so that the United Nations can continue its role in fighting injustice, inequality, inequity and intolerance worldwide through resolute and speedy action, in respect of its commitment to the ideals for which it was founded. Trinidad and Tobago is of the view that the issue of United Nations reform takes on even more urgency as the institution approaches the sixtieth anniversary of its founding in 1945. We therefore look forward to discussion of the Secretary-General’s recommendations based on the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, chaired by former Prime Minister Anand Panyarachun. In conclusion, I wish to propose that on 24 October, 2005, United Nations Day, a special commemorative meeting of the General Assembly be held in San Francisco, where our Charter was signed, to reaffirm our commitment to the lofty ideals enunciated some 50 years ago, which are still valid today.I would like first of all to extend my sincere congratulations to Mr. Jean Ping on his assumption of the presidency of General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I have every confidence that he will meet with distinction the challenges of his eminent office. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, as well as to Secretary- General Kofi Annan. The past year has been marked by a series of atrocious terrorist attacks. The stark reality is that no people or nation is safe from the spectre of international terrorism. Through their cowardly acts, terrorists seek to generate chaos and fear, raining violence upon the innocent — even children, as we so 27 painfully and clearly witnessed in the recent tragedy in Beslan, Russia. I would like to take this opportunity to extend my sincere sympathy to all those affected by terrorist attacks around the world. The Republic of Korea has been no exception in its exposure to heinous terrorist attacks. In particular, we experienced, with deep sorrow and pain, the loss of a Korean — a victim of such savagery — in Iraq in June this year. There can be no justification whatsoever for such brutality and cruel disregard for human life. That inhuman act has only bolstered our determination to rid the world of the dark cloud of terrorism. The Republic of Korea remains firm in its conviction that the international community must never give in to the demands of terrorists. The fight against terrorism calls for unity in the international community, with the United Nations in the lead, as well as the enhanced ability of each individual Member State to combat terrorism. Iraq still remains a very pressing security concern for the international community. The inauguration of an interim Government and the transfer of sovereignty set in motion the process of political transition towards a new era of democracy for the Iraqi people. The United Nations has a wealth of experience to offer Iraq in the process of its political normalization and national rehabilitation. The transition cannot proceed smoothly, however, without the restoration of order. To that end, the assistance of the international community is vital. The Republic of Korea has been actively participating in international efforts to build a peaceful, democratic and prosperous Iraq. We strongly believe that stability in Iraq is vital for peace and security in the Middle East and beyond. In implementation of Security Council resolutions 1511 (2003) and 1546 (2004), we are in the process of dispatching 3,600 troops to the multinational forces in Iraq. The aim of this is to assist the Iraqi people’s efforts aimed at rehabilitation and reconstruction. We have also pledged to contribute $260 million to that end, focusing on areas such as health, education, capacity-building, job creation and the provision of electricity. Terrorism lends renewed urgency to our common endeavour to halt the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. In particular, this year’s revelations about a nuclear black-market network in Asia have alerted the international community to the danger of nuclear weapons falling into terrorist hands. Faced with this new kind of threat to nuclear non-proliferation, the international community must work to close the loopholes in the existing non-proliferation regime. Against that backdrop, my Government strongly supports Security Council resolution 1540 (2004) on non-proliferation, adopted by the Council in April this year. The Republic of Korea has actively participated in the efforts of the international community in the non-proliferation field. In February this year, we became the thirty-ninth country to ratify the Additional Protocol to the Safeguards Agreement. In June, we joined the Group of Eight (G8) Global Partnership against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction in order to support joint efforts to stem the spread of deadly arsenals. We held the chairmanship of the Nuclear Suppliers Group for the year 2003-2004, and we will also host the plenary meeting of the Missile Technology Control Regime in Seoul next month. These are just a few facts that attest to my Government’s unwavering commitment to the cause of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Given such a solid commitment on our part, my Government reported the recent discoveries about past scientific experiments involving nuclear materials in my country pursuant to the additional protocol to the safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The experiments were isolated, laboratory-scale research activities that a few scientists conducted on their own for purely experimental purposes. In good faith and with full transparency, my Government has been providing full cooperation to the IAEA in its activities to review and verify our declarations on nuclear research activities. Renewing and reaffirming our commitment to nuclear non-proliferation and the peaceful use of nuclear energy, the Government of the Republic of Korea announced the following “Four Principles for the Peaceful Use of Nuclear Energy” on 18 September 2004. First, the Republic of Korea reaffirms that it has no intention of developing or possessing nuclear weapons. Secondly, the Republic of Korea will firmly maintain nuclear transparency and will strengthen our cooperation with the international community to this end. Thirdly, the Republic of Korea will faithfully abide by the norms set out in agreements on nuclear non-proliferation, including the Treaty on the Non- 28 Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Fourthly, on the basis of international trust and with the highest level of transparency, the Republic of Korea will continue to expand the peaceful use of nuclear energy. I would now like to turn to one of the most important tasks that lie ahead: resolving the North Korean nuclear issue. The Government of the Republic of Korea has been actively engaged in the efforts to bring about a peaceful resolution to this issue through the six-party talks process. The Republic of Korea firmly believes that the expeditious resolution of the North Korean nuclear issue is in the best interests of all the participants in the six-party talks, including the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The resolution of this issue will certainly have a positive impact on the global nuclear non-proliferation regime. It will also have a profound effect on the relations between North Korea and the other countries participating in the six- party talks. Upon the resolution of the nuclear issue, North Korea would indeed be able to become a full-fledged member of the international community, enabling it to gain all the accompanying benefits. It is our fervent wish that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will make a strategic decision to forgo all its nuclear- weapon programmes, including its uranium enrichment programmes, in a thorough and transparent manner. The Government of the Republic of Korea also strongly hopes that the fourth round of talks will be held as soon as possible, so that we can engage in substantive discussions on concrete steps toward the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. While seeking a peaceful resolution to the North Korean nuclear issue, the Korean Government is working hard to ensure the steady improvement of inter-Korean relations. Indeed, Government-level meetings have been institutionalized and as many as 90 such meetings have been held over the past two years. Impressive progress is also being made on major projects for economic cooperation. In particular, the start of operations at the Gaesong industrial complex, scheduled for later this year, will be a significant achievement in inter-Korean cooperation. As a result of such efforts, we believe that inter- Korean exchanges and cooperation have now advanced to a point from which there is no turning back. The rise of such inter-Korean interaction and interdependence will certainly contribute to peace and prosperity on the Korean peninsula and beyond. There are no easy answers to the many problems the world now faces, and poverty is at the top of that list. The roots of poverty run deep, with no simple solution in sight. A large part of the human population still languishes in abject poverty, presenting a serious stumbling block to the achievement of our shared goal of lasting peace and prosperity for all. Four years ago, the leaders of the world pledged to reduce by half the proportion of people living in poverty and hunger by the year 2015 as part of the Millennium Development Goals. However, at this point, the gap between the objectives and the tangible progress we have made remains wide. It is our sincere hope that the 2005 high-level meeting to review the progress made in the implementation of the Goals will serve to renew our commitment to the world’s poor. Political will is the key. Over the past year, the United Nations has continued its efforts to realize our common aspirations for the promotion of human rights, freedom and well- being. While persevering in its quest to make human rights universal, the United Nations has exerted special efforts to enable the most vulnerable of our fellow human beings to enjoy the rights and freedoms that should be guaranteed to all. In particular, much progress has been made in the endeavours to draft a convention to promote the rights of persons with disabilities. The Government of the Republic of Korea strongly supports global action to strengthen the values of human rights and democracy around the world. Just last week in Seoul, we organized a seminar on good governance practices for the promotion of human rights, in conjunction with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Development Programme. Next year in Seoul, my Government will also host the Sixth Global Forum on Reinventing Government, in cooperation with the United Nations. We are convinced that this Forum will serve as a useful venue for the exchange of experience in Government innovations aimed at enhancing participation and transparency in governance. We also support the United Nations in reaching out to people in distress in many corners of the world 29 and providing life-saving assistance to millions of refugees and others displaced by conflicts and natural disasters. We share the concern of the international community over the humanitarian crisis unfolding in Darfur, Sudan. Security Council resolution 1564 (2004) should be implemented so as to bring back peace and stability to this troubled area and its inhabitants. Furthermore, all too often, the complexities of major crises have been fuelled by the public health emergency created by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. In order to overcome the scourge of HIV/AIDS, it is vital that we strengthen the global assistance mechanisms. In this regard, the 3 by 5 Initiative of the World Health Organization, aimed at providing antiretroviral treatment to 3 million infected people by the year 2005, is a very timely and proactive initiative. For almost six decades, the United Nations has played a crucial role in merging the diverse interests of our Member States for the global good. As the international community becomes more interdependent and areas of cooperation expand further in the twenty- first century, the world body will have an even greater role to play. Meanwhile, doubts have been expressed as to whether the current United Nations system is suitable for confronting the challenges of the new century. As the Secretary-General has pointed out, the United Nations has come to a fork in the road. Choices must be made if the United Nations is to be strengthened and made more effective. In that regard, the Republic of Korea hopes that the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change established on the recommendation of the Secretary- General will identify the challenges the international community faces and recommend ways to deal with them effectively. We look forward to the Panel’s report and hope that its recommendations will shed light on ways to make the United Nations more effective and responsive to the needs of the twenty-first century. No doubt, continued reform of the United Nations will be an important part of our discussions. In particular, the Security Council, as the primary organ for maintaining peace and security, must be reformed in such a way as to make it more representative and democratic than it is today. In that regard, we share the view that the Security Council should be expanded to adequately reflect the increase in the membership of the United Nations during the past decades. Expansion of the Security Council should be designed to enable more countries to participate in the Council more often, and on the basis of a more equitable geographical distribution. In that spirit, we support an increase in non-permanent members so as to accord to those Member States willing and able to contribute to international peace and security greater opportunities to serve in the Council. As diverse as they are, there is a common thread that holds together all the views expressed in this honourable Hall. We are all united in the goal of seeking a better and more peaceful world. Now more than ever, countries are called to rise to challenges together, as Members of our one global body. The Republic of Korea stands firm in its hopes for and belief in the United Nations as the steadfast anchor for our collective endeavours and remains as committed as ever to fully playing its part in all areas of its noble work.Mr. President, I would like to begin by congratulating you upon your election to your challenging office. Under your able guidance, the Assembly will take forward its relentless pursuit of peace, security and prosperity throughout the world. I can assure you of Greece’s unwavering support in your efforts. Our thanks go also to the outgoing president, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his exemplary efforts and achievements in revitalizing the work of the General Assembly, as well as on many other issues. The Greek Government fully subscribes to the statement delivered two days ago by the Foreign Minister of the Netherlands on behalf of the European Union (EU) (see ), as well as to the EU priorities presented to this General Assembly. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, events of great importance changed the world we live in. From the most shocking tragedy of 11 September 2001 to the bombing attacks in Madrid and the recent acts of unspeakable brutality in Beslan, a dark parade of acts of blind violence has caused immense human suffering. This has increased our responsibility and cemented our will to work in solidarity for a safer, fairer world. Fighting international terrorism has become the most pressing task among our priorities. In that fight, we must prevail. Besides the scourge of terrorism, however, there are many other challenges and grave problems that afflict humanity. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, human trafficking, organized crime, failing States, environmental catastrophes, social and economic crises, pandemic diseases, large-scale humanitarian disasters, hunger and poverty constitute the core problems we have to face in solidarity regardless of our geography, culture or religion. Last year, the Secretary-General announced the creation of a High-Level Panel of eminent persons to assess the new threats and challenges and to suggest ways to deal with them, including through reform of the multilateral international system. We fully support those efforts. We are eager to contribute constructively, to the best of our ability, towards making the United Nations as effective as possible for the twenty-first century. (spoke in French) The major challenges and threats confronting us are a source of profound concern — for us and for the peoples we represent. Nonetheless, it is my conviction that, at any cost, we must avoid being drawn into pessimism and anxiety about the future. I share with millions of people worldwide the hope, optimism and determination that were recently seen during the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Athens. In Athens, athletes of the world devoted their efforts to a noble cause and showed us that competition does not necessarily mean tension, friction, crisis or conflict. To the contrary, they proved that the aspirations of all sides can not only coexist peacefully but can also lead to a strengthening of friendship, solidarity and cooperation among individuals and nations. The ancient ideal of the Olympic Truce embodies modern humanity’s hope for the peaceful settlement of the conflicts ravaging the world. The General Assembly has, on many occasions, unanimously endorsed the Olympic Truce and has appealed to Member States to respect it during the Games. It is now a question of transforming that appeal into a tangible reality. (spoke in English) Multilateral cooperation is the safest way to a better world. We all should contribute to the enhancement and effectiveness of the international multilateral system. In that context, Greece fully shares the view of the Secretary-General that we have to 25 move rapidly from the existing culture of reaction to one of prevention. The peaceful resolution of all disputes at an early stage, on the basis of the United Nations Charter, is of fundamental importance to my country. We strongly believe that the United Nations system of conflict prevention and its preventive potential should be further enhanced to respond better to future challenges. Peace and development are two mutually reinforcing sides of the same coin. Persistent poverty cheats nations out of progress and provides a breeding ground for both internal and regional crises. Four years ago, with the adoption of the Millennium Declaration, a landmark decision was taken to embark upon long- term global evolution. We committed ourselves to achieve by the year 2015 the Goals that were set. It would be a disgrace to mankind if we did not succeed in bringing about stable and sustainable development and in eradicating hunger and poverty. However, there are growing indications that, despite some progress, we are lagging in fulfilling agreed targets. Collectively, we have to explore new, innovative ways of financing development. Particular attention should be paid to the development problems of Africa and of small island States. In line with the Millennium Declaration, and despite the enormous outlay of resources necessary to finance the Olympic Games and their security, Greece has made a point of increasing its development assistance. In the context of that effort, Greece welcomes the proposals to combat hunger and poverty made by the President of Brazil and co-sponsored by France, Chile, Argentina and Spain. We shall continue to work towards a constructive and effective system that will allow smooth cooperation between recipients and donors and between developing and developed countries. A close look at Greece’s immediate neighbourhood reveals that, despite the considerable progress made over the last few years, the situation still remains fragile in parts of the western Balkans. Unemployment and the lack of economic prospects are in some cases a social and political time bomb. The situation in Kosovo remains a source of instability. With the proactive support and involvement of the international community, we are working hard to transform the Balkans into a region of democracy, peace, stability and prosperity, focused on a common European future. We believe that genuinely regional initiatives such as the South-East European Cooperation Process constitute the appropriate vehicle to enable participating countries to coordinate their efforts towards reform, progress and good neighbourliness. In recent years, the climate of our bilateral relations with Turkey has been constantly improving. Both the Greek and the Turkish Governments have undertaken sincere efforts to set bilateral relations on a new track. We note with satisfaction the progress achieved so far in certain areas of our bilateral cooperation and express our determination to expand it further. It is in that spirit that we clearly support Turkey’s European perspective. In Cyprus, reunification remains our unwavering goal through a mutually agreed, lasting, fair and functional settlement, based on the relevant Security Council resolutions and the plan of the Secretary- General and compatible with the European Union Community acquis and European Union principles. During the last 30 years of military occupation of more than one third of the territory of Cyprus, Greece has strongly supported every attempt and initiative by the United Nations, including the most recent one, for the achievement of a just, viable and functional solution of the Cyprus problem. Unfortunately, the last round of talks did not lead to an agreed comprehensive solution. In the referendum, which followed in April, an overwhelming majority of Greek Cypriots rejected a specific version of the Annan plan, but they still deeply cherish the goal of a reunited island. The international community can contribute decisively in that direction by keeping the window for a solution open and by avoiding any action which could lead to the deepening of the division of the island or could fail to provide incentives for its reunification. The horizon over the Middle East remains dark. The Greek Government is convinced that only the implementation of the road map can lead to the two- State solution: Israel and Palestine coexisting in peace and security. Half measures can only complicate matters and add new sources of tension. Essential progress in the peace process cannot be achieved without a comprehensive cessation of all kinds of violence, especially violence directed against civilians. Terrorism cannot be a weapon to achieve political 26 goals, and terrorist attacks cannot be justified by any means. As to Iraq, we are deeply committed to the territorial integrity and unity of the country in a federal system. We are deeply worried by the ongoing violence, and we hope for progress in the political process, which will lead to a stable and prosperous democratic country, allowing all of its citizens to enjoy the fruits of peace and exploit the country’s enormous potential. (spoke in French) In the light of the great challenges on the African continent, we note with great satisfaction the dedication shown and the results achieved by the African Union, an organization that is only 3 years old. Greece and its European partners want to help to improve Africa’s prospects through development assistance, humanitarian assistance and logistical support. Moreover, we support the prospect of strengthened political cooperation with African countries and with the continent’s regional organizations. I take this opportunity to express the congratulations of my Government and of the Greek people on the tenth anniversary of the establishment of democracy in the Republic of South Africa, a historic event of pan-African significance. (spoke in English) My country has applied for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2005-2006. I wish to express our deep appreciation to the members of the Group of Western European and other States for their endorsement. Elections are taking place in a few weeks’ time. We are asking for the support of the Assembly, which we would greatly appreciate. Let me assure Members that we shall respect its mandate and that we remain strongly committed to contributing constructively to the maintenance of peace and security and to the preservation of the multilateral order. Greece remains completely devoted to the promotion of democratic principles of government, the peaceful resolution of disputes, strict adherence to international law and respect for human rights. We are determined, should we be elected, to devote all our efforts and all our capacity to fulfilling that responsibility and honouring the trust of this Assembly of all nations.A decade ago I was elected the Head of Government of my country. It was 1994, a time of hope for the world and for the Organization of the United Nations. The collapse of the communist system and the iron curtain and the appearance of new democracies in the world, combined with a positive economic outlook enabled us to imagine a better future for humankind in the twenty- first century. Ten years later, we are living with considerable concern in a world that is becoming more and more violent, in which terrorist attacks are met with a military response and those military responses seem to generate new terrorist attacks. It would seem that we are caught up in a terrible settling of scores and in a spiral of hate, fanaticism and senseless bloodshed. Every day, the media shows images of innocent people and soldiers losing their lives in those conflicts. The stakes continue to rise, yet the cause of world peace seems increasingly vulnerable. The almost instantaneous arrival in every home of images of the most dramatic events taking place everywhere is even becoming banal. The privilege of being able to come so many times to the Assembly on behalf of my country has produced in me states of mind that have gone from initial curiosity and the wish to know and learn to a much more sceptical phase, by way of periods in which large question marks were placed on the role we are all playing in this game. We want to be positive and optimistic and not to betray the heritage of peace, harmony and open welcome that are the essence of the life of the Andorrans, both women and men. But it must be admitted that it is becoming more and more difficult to think in that way and to believe that the principles that inspired, for example, the founding of the United States of America, can still prevail. That is because the notion of pre-emptive war has now shaken us all. The principle of attacking before one is attacked is no new invention. But it had seemed to be a tribal memory or a type of behaviour belonging to other, none too remote times in the history of Europe itself. The big questions are: what justifies a pre- emptive attack? Which country or countries pose a sufficient threat to allow taking such a risk? Why attack one country and not another, perhaps equally dangerous one? Are the sufferings of some people more meaningful than the sufferings of others, and consequently more deserving of action? Should the conventions of international law be cast aside by 36 Members of the United Nations, as they are by lawless terrorists? What I would like to do today is reflect on the things we can learn from the past that can guide us towards a more promising and safer future. For countries with a deep respect and admiration for the history of freedom of the United States — and Andorra counts itself among those countries — it is a source of consternation to note that the doctrine of pre- emptive attack has generated a level of distrust among Governments and peoples. After the worldwide outpouring of sympathy following the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, that changed perception is profoundly troubling. Neither can anyone claim that sympathy is enough. Worldwide sympathy was the reaction to the attacks on New York and Washington. We, the people of Andorra, were very directly affected by the attacks in Madrid six months ago. Very recently, Russia has been added to the list of disasters. But sympathy alone cannot break the cycle of fear and violence. We need to address the causes of terrorism and comprehend the forces that give it power in order to respond together in compliance with the rule of law. Tomorrow, my country will deposit instruments of ratification for four conventions against terrorism, and the rest are scheduled to be ratified in the coming year. Mr. Kazykhanov (Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took the Chair. We cannot allow terrorism to unbind the rule of law, since that would mean undoing the tissue of civilized behaviour, which serves as a safety net in modern culture. Instead of isolating one nation from another, instead of moralizing and self-serving political posturing, instead of giving in to fear, we must recognize that our common vulnerability goes hand in hand with a humanity that we also share. Helping every member of the international community to realize that what happens to others can also happen to us creates a basis for tolerance and understanding. How much stronger we, all the countries represented at the United Nations, could become in the fight against terrorism if we truly acted together. A Security Council strengthened by a common will to root out terrorism could do much more than individual actions supported by a few Governments. We must give back to the United Nations its sense of determination and help it to help us all in the crucially important fight against terrorism. I call in particular on the States that are permanent members of the Security Council to think long and hard about what they can achieve together, with the support of all other United Nations Member States, to preserve international order and models of civilized behaviour, which this Organization represents and which it has taken humankind so many millenniums of suffering and progress to achieve. In this context, Andorra would support an increase — up to 24 — in the number of members of the Security Council so as to guarantee a more accurate representation of the reality of today’s world in that important decision-making body. I believe that the energy that feeds the cycle of violence is the result of the abstractions behind which we hide — abstractions of nation, religion or race. We hide our vulnerability behind a kind of rigid certainty or moral righteousness. Ignorance and the unwillingness to recognize differences give rise to xenophobia and racism. There is not much use in wondering now if the results would have been different, and the dangers facing us today less severe, if different policies had been applied after the criminal and unforgivable attacks of 11 September 2001; if the peace process in Israel and Palestine had been more successful; or if we in the United Nations had been able to play a different role. Granted, our response, as the United Nations, to other international crises has been imperfect, and we are constantly striving to rectify the way in which we approach such issues. But the results have been invaluable. Our efforts averted worse bloodbaths, greater harm to the oppressed and ever more extreme trauma and despair. What good is this Organization if we lack the wisdom and moral strength to attempt to reconcile our fellow nations? How could we continue to hope for peace and justice in the world if the United Nations ceased to press forward with its mission? Andorra has never been a wealthy country, though its inhabitants have always been free. In this respect, we have a privileged history. Other nations have endured greater privations and fratricidal wars, have lost customs and traditions and have had its citizens flee into exile. 37 Conscious of the moral debt which we owe to others, three years ago we proposed to increase our development assistance to 0.7 per cent of our budget for next year. Although that represents a great effort for us, as a small country, I am happy to inform the Assembly that that commitment will be honoured. I am also sure that my successor as head of Government will continue to increase Andorra’s contribution to the objectives of development until we reach 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. We will also become a member of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and help to make its worthy mission a reality. We live in a world of limited resources and opportunities. Competition for them is increasing with the growth of globalization. The worst outcome of the inevitable future competition would be increasingly violent demands on the part of one nation or another. Yet the essential issues facing us are not restricted to just one part of the world; nor can they be defined in terms of the advantages or interests of a single nation. Preserving the environment and maintaining a strong global economy, dignified standards of living and safe and peaceful political relationships all require a concerted effort. The task will not be easy. It will require all the courage, energy, diplomatic talent and communication skills that we can bring to bear. Our joint task has never been as important as in the coming year. Yesterday, I listened carefully to the words of the Secretary-General, who set a very high standard for all in his opening speech. I would like sincerely to congratulate the Secretary-General for the courage of his words. I have heard many impressive speeches in this Hall over the past 10 years. The Secretary- General’s statement yesterday was the best, by far, of all of them. Although Andorra joined the United Nations just 10 years ago, our country is not a new one. Quite the contrary — the Principality of Andorra is one of the oldest and most peaceful nations in the world. Our frontiers have not changed for centuries, and we have practised parliamentary democracy for over half of that time. In fact, we have had uninterrupted peace since 1278. In the thirteenth century, during the violent period of the Cathar heresies, which created upheaval in our part of the world, two powerful lords — the Count of Foix in the north and the Bishop of Urgell in the south — managed to overcome religious and political differences to negotiate an agreement which made the Andorran State possible. Through the 1993 constitution, we keep their successors — the President of the French Republic and the Bishop of Urgell — as our heads of State in a personal, joint and indivisible manner. The continued existence of Andorra over the centuries has, indeed, been the result of a skilful and constant will to negotiate between our people and their powerful neighbours. The democratic process which began with the setting up of the Council of the Land in 1419 was essential for our survival as a free community. Although conflicts have also threatened Andorra during its history, mutual understanding has protected us better than have the high peaks of the mountains which surround us or the rigorous winters which isolate us from the outside world for weeks and weeks at a time. When I read Andorran documents from past centuries, I recognize how deeply ideas of independence and respect for others have guaranteed our well-being and our security. Given the bloody course of European history during previous millenniums, we hold this as a remarkable accomplishment. We have never had an army, nor have we produced one single offensive weapon of any type. Our only weapon has been the wisdom and prudence of our forebears, who had the good sense to keep out of all neighbouring conflicts. That good sense has been inherited by the new generations of young Andorrans — women and men who are very well prepared for the world of today, open to knowledge of new technology and full of legitimate pride in being members of a small State in which they have every chance of being the main agents of their future, but who are, at the same time, perplexed by the growth of new religious fanaticism and exclusiveness and by the return of old fanaticisms, which we had considered forgotten. At this, the dawn of a new era, we must pass on to them the trust which we have placed in the United Nations and in the supremacy of law over force. This our fathers taught us, and this our children must learn if they are to be worthy members of humankind.I am addressing the Assembly today at a most difficult time for our country, when tears are still being shed by those who lost their children and loved ones during the horrific terrorist attack in the Russian city of Beslan. I would like from this rostrum to take this opportunity to express once again my gratitude to all those who have shown their solidarity with Russia in these tragic days. Our special thanks go to the States and international organizations that extended their helping hand to the victims and the bereaved families ó to all those who have suffered from this outrage. I am also addressing the Assembly at a moment of truth, when there cannot possibly be any doubt whatever remaining as to the true nature of international terrorism and the challenge it has flung down before the world community. With their actions throughout the world, the terrorists have once and for all placed themselves in opposition to civilized mankind. In fact, having made the mass murder of people an end in itself, they have knowingly violated all norms of human morality. Russia has drawn harsh conclusions. They have been set forth in the 4 and 13 September addresses by the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir V. Putin. We will not allow anyone to encroach on the sovereignty of our State. We will resolutely strengthen the unity of the country and its people in order to counter terror and to guarantee a secure and decent life for our citizens in freedom and democracy. The measures announced by the Russian President to achieve these objectives will be implemented on the basis of our countryís Constitution; and we will continue to defend our legitimate interests throughout the world, not through confrontation, but by means of equitable dialogue, cooperation and partnership. Moreover, a readiness to engage in honest cooperation in fighting terrorism without double standards, is becoming one of the key criteria in our relations with any and all States. We must enter into a qualitatively new and critical stage in the activities of the anti-terrorist coalition. The meeting of the Security Council of 1 September demonstrated the strong determination of the international community to continue its fight against terrorism in a consistent way. It is important now to translate this commitment into practical actions as quickly as possible. In the three years that have passed since the terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington, a lot has been done to develop effective partnership in this sphere. However, compared to the scale of the threat, far from enough has been done. It is important to learn lessons from the experience gained and to draw conclusions for the future. First, the global nature of the terrorist threat testifies to the fact that security in todayís world is indivisible. Consequently, only collective responsibility can make the world secure. The fight against terrorism should unite States rather than pit them against each other. We can deal with this evil only on a multilateral basis by combining our efforts and acting in the spirit of solidarity. As President Putin has declared, Russia considers the objective of strengthening the anti-terrorist coalition to be one of our most important tasks. A special emphasis here should be placed on intensifying the cooperation among our special services, which, we are convinced, must now be raised to a qualitatively new level of trust and coordinated action. Secondly, a clear strategy and a generally acceptable legal framework are the prerequisites for success in combating terrorism. Such a framework is enshrined in resolution 1373 (2001) and in other decisions of the Security Council. But now, additional efforts are needed. They include making necessary amendments to national legislation, acceding to international anti-terrorist conventions and finalizing new international counter-terrorism legal instruments. In circumstances where international terrorism has declared war on our entire civilization, the determination of States to use their right of self- defence in conformity with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter is of particular importance. Of course international law is clearly not an inalterable dogma. The fight against terrorism calls for its development and improvement. Thirdly, the time has come to renounce double standards once and for all when it comes to terror, regardless of the slogans in which it may be cloaked. 31 Those who slaughtered children in Beslan and hijacked aeroplanes to attack America are creatures of the same ilk. Harbouring terrorists, their henchmen and their sponsors undermines unity and mutual trust among those that form part of the anti-terrorist front, serves as justification for the actions of terrorists and indeed encourages them to commit similar crimes in other countries. I would recall that United Nations decisions require States granting political asylum to carefully examine the personal records of each individual to make sure that he or she has no links to terrorism. Attempts to use the fight against terrorism in various geopolitical games are even more counterproductive and dangerous. Fourth, the utter atrociousness of the recent terrorist attacks proves there is the need for reliable safeguards against terrorists gaining access to weapons of mass destruction. Russia is prepared for the closest kind of international partnership in that area. Our country was one of the sponsors of Security Council resolution 1540 (2004). It is a participant in the Proliferation Security Initiative and a co-sponsor of the Group of Eight (G-8) Action Plan on Non- Proliferation. Those initiatives are complementary and are designed to increase the effectiveness of the regime of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, something which is especially relevant on the eve of the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). Fifth, drug trafficking is increasingly interwoven with terrorism. The drug flow from Afghanistan has acquired global significance. The implementation of a set of social, economic and law-enforcement measures both within and outside the borders of that country is now more urgent than ever. One of the key elements of that strategy lies in strengthening the existing anti-drug security belts and creating new ones. Russia is making an important contribution towards resolving the drug problem, including through the formulation of specific legal, political and operational measures within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO). We are ready to coordinate actions with the Government of Afghanistan, and with the multinational and coalition forces operating in that country. Sixth, international terrorists have neither nationality nor religion. In fact, it is specifically religion and national culture that, today as never before, require protection from the devastating impact of extremism of any kind. There is a need for respectful dialogue among various religions and civilizations. Russia, which is open both to the West and to the East, is ready to play its part in that process, which is intended to prevent a split in civilization. Another pressing task today is the saving of world spiritual and cultural monuments from attacks by extremists. We deem it essential to establish cooperation in that area between the United Nations and its specialized agencies, primarily the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Failing to act here ó as well as standing by in silence at the desecration of memorials to Second World War heroes and victims and at attempts to rehabilitate fascists ó can only play into the hands of those who wish to incite extremist trends in society. Seventh, Russia believes that the United Nations must continue to play a pivotal role in uniting the efforts of the international community in its fight against terrorism. As Chair of the Security Councilís Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC), our country intends to actively contribute to speeding up the reform of that Committee. We propose drafting a new Security Council resolution that would ensure the most effective possible functioning of the CTC, so as to identify, in a timely manner, weak links in the anti-terrorism network and increase practical cooperation between the CTC and international and regional organizations, including the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), the CSTO and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. The CIS summit held recently in Astana, Kazakhstan, reaffirmed the strong potential of CIS regional structures in all areas, from anti-terrorist activities and ensuring collective security to intensifying economic integration. Certainly, in an increasingly interdependent world, the war on terrorism cannot be considered in isolation from other pressing issues facing mankind. This is especially relevant to the settlement of conflicts, which for decades have been destabilizing the situation at the regional and global levels. Through its decisions, the General Assembly must promote a 32 Middle East settlement on the basis of commitments made by the parties under the road map. Yesterday, the Quartet of international mediators spoke out to that end. The situation in Iraq is a source of serious concern. Russia is ready to render all possible assistance towards attaining a political settlement aimed at preserving Iraqís territorial integrity and ensuring its political sovereignty and a genuinely democratic post-war recovery. The search for national reconciliation within Iraq is of key significance; here, the Iraqis could be assisted by the holding of an international conference with the participation of all major Iraqi political forces, friendly States, Security Council members and the League of Arab States and other organizations. We must remain vigilant with regard to Kosovo, which is a dangerous hotbed of tension. There is no room for complacency. We must work to ensure that universally recognized standards of human rights and the rights of national minorities are applied in the region. We also need to make full use of existing mechanisms for conflict settlement within the CIS. Consolidating the peacemaking capacity of the international community is crucial to overcoming regional crises. A collective response to humanitarian crises, in particular those on the African continent, in full compliance with the United Nations Charter and in a spirit of partnership with regional structures, would leave no doubt that the Charter remains a universal basis for the effective solution of such problems. The United Nations must continue to focus its attention on other global threats to security and sustainable development as well. Those include the eradication of poverty and illiteracy as a breeding ground for extremism. Annually, our country grants 1,000 scholarships to students from African countries. Russia has contributed $7.5 million to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and has provided bilateral humanitarian assistance to a number of African countries. Among the challenges and threats is that of finding ways to bridge the gap between poor and rich States. Russia has been making its contribution there; between 1998 and 2002 it wrote off the debt of African countries equivalent to $11.2 billion. Another challenge is ensuring environmental security. Here I would like to confirm that in accordance with the decision of President Vladimir V. Putin we are now engaged in serious consideration of ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. The challenges also include preventing the transformation of outer space into a theatre of armed confrontation. Together with China, we are calling for the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement to that end. We call upon all countries with space capability to join in that initiative. There is also a growing need to elaborate a United Nations convention on outer space law. A further challenge is the fight against gross violations of human rights, with a view to ensuring the security and dignity of the individual. The United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe and other organizations should not remain passive spectators when, in some countries, a considerable part of the population is deprived of citizenship and consequently of basic political, social and economic rights. On Russiaís initiative, the General Assembly, at its fifty-seventh and fifty-eighth sessions, adopted resolutions 57/145 and 58/16 respectively, on establishing, under the aegis of the United Nations, a comprehensive approach to countering new threats and challenges. The resolutions contain specific guidelines for bringing the international community closer to a new security model that would meet the global challenges of the twenty-first century. Those are the lines along which the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, established by the Secretary-General, is organizing its work. We hope that its recommendations will pave the way for a genuine enhancement of the effectiveness of the United Nations. At the same time, reform of the Organization, and particularly of the Security Council, should be based on the broadest possible agreement and should not provoke the alienation of States. The international community is undergoing a complex period in its establishment of a new system of international relations. It is already clear that this will be a long-term process with an uncertain future and one that, so far, is difficult to predict. At the same time, there is an enormous increase in the number of new unresolved problems and new dangerous challenges to security and the development of mankind. We still lack a collective strategy and universally applicable mechanisms for responding to those challenges. In fact, 33 we have to constantly improvise and use makeshift means to ensure world stability. A question arises as to whether we could soon find ourselves in a situation in which events start to go out of control. Is it not time for the international community to assume an active role in impacting upon global processes and taking targeted actions to establish a more secure and just world order? Russia is fully determined, together with other countries, to build such a world order and take its proper place therein as a free and democratic State. More than half a century ago, the civilized world put aside all its disputes and differences and mobilized its efforts to counter the deadly threat of Nazi enslavement. The enemy that opposes us today is no less dangerous and no less merciless. Russia sincerely hopes that the forthcoming sixtieth anniversary of the end of World War II and the establishment of the United Nations will become a historic milestone on the path to a world order in which the twenty-first century sees the noble principles of peace, stability and development enshrined in the United Nations Charter hold sway.It gives me great pleasure to deliver this statement on behalf of His Excellency Ludwig Scotty, President of the Republic of Nauru, who had to cancel his trip to New York at the last minute due to pressing matters at home. President Scotty has asked that I convey to the Assembly the warm greetings and good wishes of the people and the Government of Nauru, and his warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your assumption of the stewardship of the Assembly. We assure you of Nauru’s fullest cooperation in the deliberations that are ahead of us. Through you, Mr. President, my delegation joins previous speakers in congratulating Foreign Minister Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia for a productive fifty- eighth session of the General Assembly and for his exemplary performance. As a member of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), Nauru is extremely proud to be associated with Saint Lucia and the Caribbean Community, and it just goes to show that, as is the case of our coconut trees, our potential is great. However, a lack of resources has limited the capacity to flourish of many more people like Julian Hunte from the AOSIS region who are serving or have served in international office. We congratulate the Secretary-General for his continued commitment to multilateralism as a means of resolving our common problems and for his report on the work of the Organization (A/59/1) over the past 12 months. However, it is discouraging to note that peacekeeping activities have had to increase rather than decrease. Human rights and humanitarian norms continue to be violated as a result of armed conflict and terrorism. Atrocious acts of terrorism against innocent civilians, particularly women and children, continue to tear the fabric of civility and the moral values on which each and every society on this planet is founded. Nauru sympathizes with those countries and peoples who have suffered loss as a result of conflict and terrorist acts. Nauru encourages peace in its Asia- Pacific neighbourhood, and expresses the hope that, whatever their differences, China and Taiwan can resolve them peacefully for the sake of the region’s continued peace, stability and prosperity. We support the Secretary-General’s bold statement of position with respect to the mitigation of armed conflicts generally, and those on the African continent and in the Middle East in particular. We are pleased to hear that, for the remainder of his term in 22 office, he will be focusing mainly on strengthening the rule of law and transitional justice. Nauru supports the position the Secretary-General set out in his statement last week at the 3rd meeting, when he said “It is by reintroducing the rule of law, and confidence in its impartial application, that we can hope to resuscitate societies shattered by conflict. It is the law, including Security Council resolutions, which offers the best foundation for resolving prolonged conflicts — in the Middle East, in Iraq and around the world.” The democratization of governance, the application of accountability and transparency and the protection of minorities and the vulnerable are complementary elements of ruling under law. Nauru, like other Member States, looks forward with anticipation to the report of the Secretary-General on the findings of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change to be finalized later this year. The Panel has been charged with the task of reviewing threats to peace and security, as well as other global challenges, insofar as they may influence or connect with those threats. Nauru continues to believe that multilateralism is the key to resolving contemporary problems in all of their complexity. Hence, it is important that the recommendations of the High-level Panel reinforce that point and that the proposals are doable and add value to the reform programmes that are already in the pipeline, including the revitalization of the General Assembly. My delegation has stated in previous debates that it agrees fully with the reform of the Security Council. The fresh approach initiated by the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session has, to some extent, injected life back into the debate by focusing on key elements of the reform. It is our hope that the Bureau will continue the push for the further convergence of views by refining the choices that we made during the fifty-eighth session. The formation of an informal group of countries with aspirations to permanent seats in an expanded Security Council is interesting, and could prove to be a catalyst, expediting the debate on expansion. Nauru can and will support the aspirations of Germany, Japan and India to a permanent seat in an expanded Security Council. It is my delegation’s firm view, however, that progress is being held hostage by those countries that insist that the expansion should not be done without either eliminating or modifying the veto power accorded to permanent members of the Security Council. Unless this difference in approach is reconciled, time and energy spent on other elements of the reform will be futile. The revitalization of the General Assembly must have at its heart the maximization of opportunity for equitable representation by all Member States in the major organs of the United Nations and its committees and to ensure that their programme of work allows for the full participation of members, particularly the small States. In that regard, the proposal to split the work of the Main Committees of the General Assembly into two segments over a six-month period would allow small States like Nauru, which has only two diplomatic staff, to increase its participation. Nauru would therefore support such a proposal when further deliberations take place later in the session. Nauru would note that its position is consistent with the United Nations core principle of universality, which calls on us all to be ever-mindful of the views of those countries seeking expanded responsibilities in international affairs. Countries that have sterling records in democracy, human rights, peace and the principle of freedom should have their achievements, as well as their capacities, appropriately recognized. As a small island developing State in the Pacific Ocean, Nauru aligns itself with the interventions already made by the leaders of countries of the Alliance of Small Island States who have spoken before me on the concerns and challenges that we, the small-island big-ocean developing States, are facing. Nauru bears all the unique characteristics of a small island State: smallness in both land area and population, lack of resources, remoteness and vulnerability to exogenous forces, whether man-made or natural. The devastation of Niue by Cyclone Heta and the disastrous hurricane destruction in Caribbean countries this year are stark reminders of the vulnerability of island States. Nauru joins others in expressing its deepest sympathy for the loss of life and property in the affected countries of the Caribbean and the southern coastal states of the United States of America. Against that background, my delegation would like to focus on what it considers to be a spanner in the wheel of negotiations on an outcome strategy paper for the International Meeting to Review the 23 Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, to be held in Mauritius. It appears to us that the programme for political recognition of the special case of small island developing States (SIDS), as outlined at the Barbados Conference in 1994, and reinforced in New York during the five-year review held in 1999, as well as in chapter VII of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, has taken a backseat in the negotiations to generic undertakings made at other international conferences on development since 1999 — in particular, the Millennium Development Goals of 2000 and the Monterrey Consensus of 2002. Benchmarking the SIDS outcome strategy paper to the latter agreed texts would be hypocrisy of a high order insofar as political acceptance of SIDS as a special case is concerned. Indeed, the slow progress in the implementation by many small island developing States of the measures called for in those texts is but a true reflection that our problems are SIDS-specific and go deeper than the generic issues of development. Nauru is also concerned that some of the development partners would skew the review into one addressing SIDS-Millennium Development Goal performance instead of SIDS performance on the Barbados Programme of Action. I believe that our concern has to an extent been warranted and therefore my delegation would like to use this opportunity to remind our partners that the review is about identifying and solving the failure of small island developing States to accomplish agreed development programmes under the Barbados Plan of 1994; and it’s about how you, our development partners, can help SIDS to attain those goals. It is therefore our sincere hope that the third and critical round of negotiations scheduled in early October will be conducted in the right spirit and with better understanding. The Pacific Islands Forum continues to be the vehicle for regional cooperation and collaboration among the 16 Pacific Island countries of the Central and Western Pacific. It approved the terms of reference for the Pacific plan at the Apia Forum last month to revitalize the Forum and to make it more effective in its response to the needs of the peoples of the region. Issues such as climate change, peace and security, the economic and social development of our peoples and the protection and sustainable use of the environment and our natural resources are still the priorities of the Forum. Nauru welcomes the admission of the Kingdom of Thailand as the thirteenth member of the Forum’s dialogue partners. That group of countries, along with the European Union, individual member countries of the EU and the United Nations specialized agencies and programmes, are critical to the development of the region as they provide the necessary financial backing. During the session, cooperation between the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum will be considered under item 56 (q) of the General Assembly’s agenda. The Pacific Island Forum group at the United Nations looks forward to working closely with Member States to develop and expand the areas of its cooperation with them, pursuant to a draft resolution that will be presented to the Assembly in due course. Nauru, like the other low-lying small island States, sees the Kyoto Protocol as its means of salvation from the sea-level rise and climate change that threaten to devastate its already fragile ecosystem, so essential to the livelihood and culture of its people. My delegation understands that the Russian Federation stands between the Kyoto Protocol’s coming into force and its continuing to linger in the wilderness. Nauru welcomes the statement by the Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation that President Putin has ordered serious consideration of Russia’s ratification of the Protocol. That is a step forward from last year. A healthy Pacific Ocean and the sustainable use of its natural resources, including the highly migratory fish stocks, are also critical to our livelihood. We in the Pacific have “walked the walk” on those issues by the development of an ocean policy to guide us in the management of our part of the Pacific Ocean and to form the framework for future regional ocean-related initiatives. The Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean, which provides a comprehensive regime for the management of the region’s highly migratory fish stock both in our exclusive economic zone and on the high seas, has come into force. In addition, the trans-shipment of nuclear waste through our waters is of great concern to many of the island countries because of the damage it could cause. One of the positive outcomes of the Pacific Islands Forum meeting last month was the decision of the Forum leaders to intervene in the internal economic crisis in Nauru at the request of our Government and 24 consistent with the terms of reference of the Forum’s Biketawa Declaration of 2000. Our crisis lies largely in the fact that two thirds of our workforce are in the employ of the Government and its agencies. Those employees have not been paid a regular salary for over a year now. At irregular intervals either A$ 100 in food vouchers or A$ 30 to A$ 50 in cash to purchase food has been paid out, compared with the basic wage of A$ 350 — or about US$ 250 — per fortnight. The average family size on Nauru is around six people. A$ 50 cash fortnightly is equivalent to US$ 0.42 per family member per day and is well below the United Nations-defined abject poverty level of US$ 1 a day. The fact that many Nauruans can harvest food from the sea and the land, however limited, coupled with our culture and tradition of sharing, has meant that despite the lack of cash our people eat at least once a day. The real problem concerns the level of daily nutritional intake, particularly for children, as one cannot buy imported commodities such as fruits and vegetables and hygienic supplies. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that Nauru imports 90 per cent of all food and other essential items. Accordingly, food security in the medium to long term is a serious concern as there is no form of agricultural activity on Nauru. Nauru’s recovery cannot be possible without the establishment of reputable financial institutions on Nauru and the lifting of the restrictions on financial transactions between the international community and Nauru. That will not happen if Nauru continues to be subjected to countermeasures and blacklisting by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Despite the outlawing of the registration of foreign banks some 12 months ago, Nauru has not been successful in its appeal no longer to be the subject of countermeasures as a first step, although there has been incremental progress towards that goal over the same period. Following the visit by the International Monetary Fund early this year, Nauru has, for the fourth time, passed an anti-money-laundering law that now supersedes previous laws. We have participated in FATF regional reviews but, despite strong support provided by actions taken on advice, we seem to have failed at the plenary review. As I speak, the Parliament of Nauru is considering the passage of three bills addressing issues raised by the FATF: the counter-terrorism and transnational organized crime bill, the proceeds of crime bill and the mutual assistance in criminal matters bill. We are confident that the passage of those bills, the prioritizing of related issues through the appointment of an anti-money-laundering national coordinating committee — which also comprises the Australian official appointed as secretary for finance — and the coordinating committee’s face-to- face meeting with FATF’s Asia-Pacific Working Group in Brunei next week will bring us closer to our objective of being de-listed. We will persevere, as we know that, in the end, we will prevail. The intervention by the Pacific Islands Forum is seen as pre-empting the possibility of the economic crisis escalating into a security and safety issue for the Nauruan people and for the region. Teams of regional experts representing the Forum and Australia have visited Nauru on a fact-finding mission, and we will be reporting to the leaders in due course, which will include recommendations on the type of assistance and the manner in which it should be rendered. While the proposal, which is to be formally known as Pacific Regional Assistance to Nauru, is being finalized, the Forum has agreed to provide, in the immediate future, capacity-building assistance in the justice, judicial, financial audit and national planning sectors, as well as transportation for the health and education sectors and a small cash grant to assist with public-sector wages. That assistance is complementing the aid provided separately by Australia, which has deployed Australian finance and treasury officials to head the Nauru Department of Finance, and the deployment, next month, of Australian police to take command of the Nauru Police Force. Indeed, as I speak, the Parliament of Nauru is also considering a reform budget designed with the assistance of Australian finance and treasury officials. That budget includes harsh but realistic measures as a preliminary but decisive step towards stabilizing, and eventually rebuilding, the economy and society of Nauru. For the same reasons, the Government of Nauru wrote to the Secretary-General in August of this year to alert him of the looming crisis in Nauru and to request assistance from the United Nations system to help to alleviate the plight of the Nauruan people. President Ludwig Scotty and Foreign Minister David Adeang may be visiting New York in the latter part of October to meet with the Secretary-General and relevant United Nations bodies on this matter. My Government looks forward to receiving a positive response from the 25 United Nations system, in the same manner as it did from the Pacific Islands Forum. In conclusion, the fifty-ninth session has critical work ahead of it, such as the International Meeting for the 10-year Review of the Barbados Programme of Action, the introduction and deliberation on the findings of the High-Level Panel constituted by the Secretary-General, the review of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the preparations for the 5-year review of the Millennium Declaration and its Goals and the continuation of our deliberations on the revitalization of the General Assembly and of the reform of the Security Council, to name but a few items. As the Secretary-General has stated, the United Nations is at a fork in the road in terms of its relevance as an organization of nations seeking common solutions to common problems. The next 12 months will determine whether we, the united nations of the world, continue on the road where “business as usual” is the mode of operation or whether we follow the road of multilateralism as the principal rule of our engagement. The statements thus far indicate the latter, but we have heard that before.It is with pleasure that I congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the presidency at the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. It is also a pleasure to speak to the Assembly today as the Prime Minister of a fully sovereign State that seeks to recover its place among the community of nations. Iraq has been isolated from the international community for a very long time. It was deprived of the very important role it should play in the community of nations. The Iraqi people aspire to recover that role today. Iraq is a nation rich in cultural heritage and history, as the cradle of civilization. But the oppressive regime of Saddam Hussein cast a long, sinister shadow over Iraq. It traumatized and suppressed the people of Iraq for decades. With the fall of Saddam Hussein’s 11 oppressive regime, our country and the world have been made safer. New horizons for fruitful and constructive cooperation with the world have emerged. A new situation has emerged in Iraq, which is now experiencing a conflict of far-reaching consequences for the country’s future and its relations with the world. It is the struggle of the Iraqi people — and its vision for future peace and democracy — against the terrorists and extremists and the remnants of Saddam Hussein’s regime, who are targeting that noble dream long nurtured by our people. It is the struggle of all civilized nations against those working to destroy civilization and world culture. I therefore appeal to the representatives of the countries assembled here to help Iraq to defeat the forces of terrorism and to build a better future for its people. The President returned to the Chair. The brutal dictatorship imposed by Saddam Hussein on Iraq brought destruction to Iraq and brutalized and traumatized the Iraqi people. The regime killed hundreds of thousands of Iraqi citizens. It arrested and tortured many thousands more and drove millions of Iraqis to leave their country after depriving them of the most fundamental human and civil rights. It also ruined relations among Iraqis by sowing the seeds of religious, ethnic and other divisions. My words today cannot adequately convey the oppression and suffering endured by the Iraqi people over three decades. We have discovered 262 mass graves, and we continue to find more; they prove the corruption of the Saddam regime and its lack of compassion and respect for life. During the brutal era of Saddam Hussein, the dream of the Iraqi people was to build a democratic, federal and free Iraq that would ensure a dignified life for its citizens. Today, we have a genuine opportunity to make that dream come true. Iraq has now become a country of laws that ensure respect for human rights and freedoms. It has a Government that embodies the diversity of the Iraqi people within the framework of genuine national unity. Today, we are also preparing to hold democratic elections next January under the timeline set in the Law of Administration of the State of Iraq for the Transitional Period and in Security Council resolution 1546 (2004). We are committed to that timeline despite the complexities and difficulties involved, and, with the Assembly’s help, we can meet the deadline. Holding elections is a vital and necessary step towards improving the security situation in Iraq. We hope that all Iraqis will participate in the elections and contribute to the completion of the political process. Nonetheless, there is a tiny extremist minority that seeks to deprive Iraqis of the opportunity to fulfil their dream of building a democratic future in Iraq. Like all terrorists everywhere in the world, those who are responsible for terrorism in Iraq hate democracy, freedom and humanity. They are abetted in their criminal endeavours by a number of foreigners who have infiltrated Iraq from neighbouring countries. There are also criminals from the previous regime, who aim at destroying our country and impeding progress. They are not freedom fighters, as is claimed by some biased circles. They do not mean to liberate our country; rather, they want to spread chaos, violence and terror and jeopardize the security of citizens and of the country. They target the dreams and aspirations of the Iraqi people. In fact, our goal in the ongoing conflict is to restore stability and the rule of law and to enable the men, women and children of Iraq to live free from fear. The aim of the terrorists, on the other hand, is to destroy the aspirations and will power of our people through mass killings and the destruction of Iraq’s infrastructure, and to stop economic life in Iraq and create a state of tension, panic and instability in order to undermine peace and security. They want to destroy human civilization in our region and, indeed, throughout the world. For all those reasons, my Government’s top priorities are to defeat the terrorists’ schemes, to establish security throughout Iraq and to hunt down the terrorists and bring them to justice. We have developed plans to promote security as a vital precondition for the reconstruction of Iraq, the restoration of economic progress, the completion of the political process, the achievement of national reconciliation and the promotion of a culture of tolerance among all citizens of Iraq. Perhaps members now appreciate the daunting task we are facing. We look forward to assistance from our neighbours and all of our friends in the international community in order to achieve security and stability in Iraq. I recognize that some countries here objected to the war that brought down the 12 oppressive regime of Saddam Hussein and liberated the people of Iraq. And that is their right. However, differences over this issue should not remain an obstacle to establishing new cooperative relationships that would allow Iraq to receive serious international support to consolidate security, freedom and democracy in our country and to forge ahead on the path of development and progress. Iraq welcomes international support for the objectives of the Iraqi people as outlined in Security Council resolution 1546 (2004), which was adopted unanimously. That resolution reaffirms the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq and endorses the formation of the national Government. It also affirms the international community’s commitment to support the Government in fulfilling the will of the Iraqi people by holding elections and establishing the proper legal framework for political parties and civil society. In addition, it places emphasis on the re-establishment of an effective governmental structure, the application of the principle of social justice, and the promotion of a climate of tolerance, dialogue and human rights. We need more assistance from our neighbours and from the international community as a whole to meet all those objectives and to translate the aspirations of the Iraqi people into realities after so many decades of suffering under the oppression of the previous regime and its excessive practices. We are proud of our membership of the League of Arab States, the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and we have started a fruitful dialogue with the European Union. We hope that all that will lead to concrete positive results in the near future. Also, I am pleased to announce here that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) has agreed to assist Iraq in the training of its security forces. I especially welcome the upcoming conference of neighbouring countries and other friendly countries, with the objective of empowering the Iraqi people to face its challenges and dangers and of establishing stability in Iraq. It is our duty to coordinate our efforts in the fight against terrorism and to exchange information. It is also our duty to ensure that our national borders are more secure, so that we can halt the infiltration of terrorists into Iraq and put an end to their destructive activities. In that context, we call upon all friendly and peace-loving nations to stand by Iraq; we need their immediate assistance. We need more assistance from the multinational force, and we need a broadening of the base of countries contributing troops to that force, so that it will be better equipped and more determined to confront terrorism and to provide security protection for the United Nations and its agencies when they return to Iraq. My Government is committed to the reconstruction and development of the national economy and is working with the World Bank, the United Nations system and the International Monetary Fund to complete the reforms under way and enhance Iraq’s prospects for welfare and prosperity, so that it can become effective as a trading partner of other nations. The problem of foreign debt has emerged as the most serious obstacle on that road. Our debts amount to billions of dollars, which is beyond our capacity to repay. This places an unjust burden on the Iraqi people, since those debts arose from the prohibitive costs improperly incurred by the former regime in its unjustified wars, its support for international terrorism, its acquisition of weapons of mass destruction and its plunder of our national resources. With good intentions and rational management, Iraq hopes to reach agreement with the Paris Club by the end of this year in order to achieve substantial reductions in our debts. Here, I would like to express our gratitude to those countries that have decided to write off their loans to Iraq, and I appeal to other creditor nations to show the same generosity. Without their assistance, we will not be able to reconstruct Iraq and attract the foreign investment that would enhance our ability to defeat terrorism and improve security for the Iraqi people, ensuring increased economic benefits for the region and entire world. Also, I appeal to donor countries that have pledged generous financial assistance to fulfil their obligations in order to help us reconstruct our country. We welcome the meeting of donor countries scheduled to be convened next month in Tokyo. Such financial assistance will create an atmosphere of optimism that will allow us to leave the past totally behind and will help us finance reforms and development projects on the ground. In addition, we hope that Iraq’s friends will provide financial assistance to ensure the success of our democratic elections. 13 We seek international assistance from the United Nations for the special Iraqi court in order to ensure that all defendants, whatever serious crimes they may be charged with, receive fair trials within the justice system. That would help Iraq free itself from the pernicious shackles of the past. We stress that the efforts and resources committed by the international community to promote Iraq’s democracy and revive its economy shall not have been committed in vain. They may even have a positive impact on the entire region and the world as a whole, creating a climate conducive to peace, security and international and regional cooperation on the basis of respect for mutual interests. We highly appreciate the role and good offices of Secretary-General Kofi Annan in helping us lay the foundations of freedom and democracy. We also pay tribute to Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, former Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General, for his work on the constitution of the interim Iraqi Government. We also welcome the appointment of Mr. Ashraf Qazi as Mr. Brahimi’s successor. We further welcome the assistance team dispatched by the United Nations to help us meet our obligation to convene general elections in January. We look forward to welcoming United Nations personnel in Iraq to help see us through an effective political process and reconstruction. We warmly look forward to the return of all United Nations agencies to fulfil their noble mission in Iraq. On this occasion, I wish to recall with deep anguish and sorrow the destruction of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad just over a year ago in a brutal and barbaric terrorist attack that claimed the lives of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello, a brilliant international figure, and of other United Nations staff members in the international compound. Their memory will remain a vivid testimony for the promotion of democracy and stability in Iraq. I stress our determination to defeat the cowardly terrorists who target the lives of foreign workers who come to Iraq to help us fulfil our noble mission. Iraq follows closely the challenges that face the countries of the world, including the emergence of new forms of terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the need to reduce poverty, the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, respect for human rights and the consolidation of democracy and equality. In that regard, Iraq appeals to the United Nations in particular to strive even harder, to combat and eradicate the horrendous scourge of terrorism. That struggle calls for new ideas and firmer resolve to implement the existing agreements. It is important that we affirm the commitment of the Government and people of Iraq to succeed in this battle. Terrorism is a disease that is spreading throughout the world, employing misleading slogans. Terrorists have killed numerous people in the name of Islam in New York, Turkey, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Bali, Madrid, Baghdad and elsewhere. They are criminals who commit their evil acts without mercy and evince only a taste for barbarism and bloodshed. Today, they have chosen Iraq as their battleground because they fear the success of the Iraqi experience and the restoration of Iraq’s stability, development and democratic institution-building. They will reap nothing but failure and total defeat. Thus, our struggle is the United Nations struggle, our victory will be its victory and our defeat will be its defeat. Indeed, the values of democracy, freedom, justice and equality for all, irrespective of gender, colour, faith or race, are common human values. There is no room or excuse for those who seek to divide our world by making a distinction of Muslims, which is extremely damaging to the unity of human society, peace and security. Furthermore, we believe in the importance of consolidating peace and stability in the Middle East on the basis of United Nations resolutions, of respect for mutual rights and of a just and comprehensive peace. Let me appeal today before the international community, both to those who supported the war in Iraq and to those who opposed it, as well as to the United Nations itself, not to remain neutral or idle in the struggle, but to join us for our sake as well as for their own. The fulfilment of the Iraqi people’s dream of a free, stable and prosperous Iraq, with good standing in the family of peace-loving nations, will strengthen our capacity and resolve to achieve justice and peace, to defeat terrorism and violence, and to end all forms of division and hatred among nations. Let us stand side by side as one international family in order to achieve our noble cause.First, let me extend to you, Mr. President, my delegation’s warmest congratulations on your election to preside over the Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. My delegation has every confidence in your sagacity to guide this session and its deliberations to a fruitful conclusion. It is also my pleasure to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, for the commendable manner in which he discharged his responsibilities as the President at the fifty-eighth session. As well, I wish to take this opportunity to compliment the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on his diligence in promoting peace and pursuing the noble principles of this Organization. My delegation sincerely wishes him every success in his daunting task. The unfolding international events bring to the fore the question of multilateralism and the vital role the United Nations has to play in addressing global crises and problems and in promoting a world order based on the rule of law and the collective responsibility of all nations and communities. The global challenges that we face today are numerous. While goals are set and programmes launched for eradicating poverty, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality, reducing child mortality, fighting HIV/AIDS and protecting the environment, hundreds of innocent lives are lost every day as a result of conflict and civil war. Terrorism has not been defeated. On the contrary, it is re-emerging in uglier manifestations in the most unexpected places, killing innocent people, including children. The disappointing impasse on global disarmament and the dreadful odds of further proliferation of weapons of mass destruction make us ill at ease and cause us to lose hope for a peaceful world. We in small States feel more vulnerable to these challenges and threats, as our security is entirely dependent on the prevalence of global security and the observance of the rule of law by all States. Clearly, the concerns of small States cannot be confined only to the issues of the environment, climate change, sea-level rise and sustainable development. The ominous threats that are emerging on the political and security fronts of the contemporary world have far-reaching implications for us as well. Not too infrequently, we witness small States being victimized by non-State actors such as terrorists, mercenaries, insurrectionary gangs and organized crime networks, whose calculated assaults disrupt socio-economic and political development of small States, endangering peace and security. It would be imprudent to ignore the wider implications of the presence and activities of such perilous actors on international peace and security. Solutions to those threats can only be sought through international cooperation, vigilance and timely action. It is imperative that the international community takes on the crucial responsibility of protecting the security of small States, as stipulated by General Assembly resolutions 44/51, of 8 December 1989, 46/43, of 9 December 1991, and 49/31, of 9 December 1994. With its global spread and ability to work in collaboration with regional institutions, we see the Organization as the most appropriate body to address such issues. Terrorism poses grave threats to regional as well as international peace and security. The train bombings in Madrid; car bombings and terrorist attacks in Iraq, Indonesia and Saudi Arabia; and, most recently, the hostage-taking tragedy in a Russian school, are all grim reminders of the particularly insidious nature of terrorism. I am sure that I echo the unanimity of the international community in reiterating that the war against terrorism should continue to remain a principal priority on the international agenda. My Government 4 believes that early adoption of the proposed international convention on terrorism would be a crucial step in effectively combating that dreadful menace. Expanding globalization and increasing trade liberalization, contrary to the hopes for a healthier global market, have had a distressing price tag for small economies, especially for small island economies such as the Maldives. Limited natural resources and the narrow economic base of small island economies severely restrict their scope for diversification and their ability to attract foreign investment. Those disadvantages call for special considerations, including a level of preferential treatment, on an exceptional basis, to ensure the sustainable development of small island developing States. While the Maldives is beset by the entire range of economic problems inherent to small island developing States, the recommendation by the Committee for Development Policy (CDP) to graduate us from the list of least developed countries has compounded the challenges to our development. We do take pride in our achievements in the social and economic sectors during the last two decades. However, we fear that graduation may cause enormous and irreparable damage to our economy, in the absence of a suitable mechanism to ensure sustained socio-economic development. In that context, we welcome the recommendation of the CDP and the decision of the Economic and Social Council earlier this year indicating the need to formulate smooth transition strategies for least developed countries prior to their graduation. We support in particular the recommendation to decide post-graduation transition arrangements on a case-by-case basis and to establish ad hoc country advisory groups to help formulate those arrangements. We strongly feel that it is important for the Economic and Social Council to formally endorse the arrangements proposed by the ad hoc country advisory groups while mandating the CDP with the task of monitoring the progress of newly graduated countries for any disruptions in their development. Allow me, at this juncture, to register our sincere gratitude and appreciation to our development partners and the members of the Group of 77, the Group of Least Developed Countries and the Bureau and members of the Economic and Social Council for the understanding and the care with which they are proceeding on this crucial and important issue. The state of the global environment is as depressing as ever. Statistical information and projections are alarming and disturbing, not only to small island developing States but also to the entire international community. Those figures and predictions reveal the severity of environmental problems and the potential threats to human existence unless swift remedial measures are implemented. The frequency with which we have been witnessing natural disasters such as hurricanes and cyclones around the world demonstrates the urgent need to tackle environmental issues on a global scale. Many small island developing States suffer disproportionately from such hazards, underscoring the vulnerability of small island developing States in that regard. As we recently witnessed in Grenada, a single hurricane can lay waste to decades-long developmental progress in a matter of a few hours. We will soon be meeting in Mauritius to review the progress made over the past decade in the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island States. If we are to make the forthcoming meeting in Mauritius a success, we need to muster the necessary political will to channel resources and to ensure the comprehensive realization of the objectives of the Barbados Programme of Action. The complexity and magnitude of ever- developing global challenges demand that a reformed United Nations be assigned the central role in dealing with them. While those reforms should cover the entire United Nations system and its bodies, the focus is once again justly being drawn to the urgency of the need to restructure the Security Council, making the Council more reflective of the realities of the present-day world and more representative of the capacity and commitment of Member States to contribute to international peace and security. It is disappointing, though, that no common view has emerged on that issue. We feel that we should go ahead with the enlargement of the Security Council, both in the permanent and non-permanent categories and including in that enlargement countries such as Japan and other Member States that have the capacity and the commitment to serve as permanent members and that 5 would represent the wider membership of the present- day United Nations. The international treaty regime has to be expanded and strengthened so that emerging problems can be dealt with more effectively. We feel that that task should be a priority in enforcing the principles for which the United Nations stands and the values of peace, security, justice, equality, human rights, democracy and rules-based international order that it has advocated. In that context, we applaud the remarks made by the Secretary-General at the opening meeting of the General Assembly, and wish to express our support for his efforts to reform the United Nations system. The rapid socio-economic development attained by the Maldives in the past two and a half decades is in no small part grounded in the political stability that we have enjoyed during that period. To emphasize further the need to promote and sustain the values of democracy and respect for human rights, President Gayoom proposed a sweeping agenda for political reform in early June of this year. The Government remains firmly committed to carry out the reform agenda, which has been welcomed and supported by both the people of the country and its friends in the international community. A special people’s assembly was convened, as required by the Constitution, and was charged with the task of debating reforms to the current Constitution proposed by the Government and civil society. We seek the support and assistance of our friends in the international community in our pursuit of that unprecedented reform agenda. The solidarity of the international community at this crucial hour of need would reinforce our resolve and help us move ahead with the reform agenda with increased veracity and diligence. My Government is also committed to respecting and observing human rights through adherence to relevant international conventions. In that regard, I am pleased to announce that the Maldives will this week sign a framework agreement with the International Committee of the Red Cross. We will also keep under consideration the signing of other important instruments, such as the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Before concluding, I should like to reaffirm our commitment to the principles enshrined in the Charter. My country believes this Organization to be the best suited to working for the betterment of humanity and the maintenance of international peace and security.In the middle of the nineteenth century railroads were built all over the world. Steel at that time was not of such good quality and for that reason wheels sometimes broke, causing accidents and derailments. To avoid those accidents, at every station stop there was a brakeman who walked the length of the tracks, hammer in hand, hammering on the wheels so that any of the wheels that sounded broken could be changed. Years passed and the quality of steel improved, but the brakemen kept hammering on the wheels, heedless of the fact that it was no longer necessary. The world changes, and that means that we, too, need to change in order to adapt to new circumstances. Something similar is happening in the United Nations. The Security Council, designed after the Second World War to maintain peace in the post-war world, is not the Security Council that the new century of information technology and globalization needs. We must reinvent the United Nations. 4 Let us begin by making the reform of the United Nations, on which we have already agreed, effective. We have to broaden participation in the Security Council to include other countries, both as permanent members — which at the very least should include Germany and Japan — and as non-permanent members, in order to allow for more equitable and democratic representation. Our Organization needs to adapt to the new challenges and realities of the present. Development, for example, needs a new approach. What concerns us most is to ensure that populations and individuals participate more actively in the decisions shaping their own future. As I said three days ago, in the “Action Against Hunger and Poverty” meeting of world leaders, development is a responsibility of States, but it is also the primary responsibility of the individual. I find the words of Nobel Laureate José Saramago are appropriate here when he writes: “As vehemently as we claim our rights, let us also lay claim to responsibility for our duties. Perhaps then the world will become a bit better.” So it was a wise thing that our American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, signed in Bogotá in 1948, established that equal to, and as a counterpart to rights, there are also individual responsibilities. That includes instilling in the conscience of citizens a culture of responsibility. Next to the right to receive a State-sponsored education stands the civil responsibility to make the most effective use of that education and to obtain at least a primary education. Next to the right of children to have a father and a mother stands the duty of parents to care for, help, feed, educate and shelter their young children. Children, for their part, have the responsibility always to honour their parents, help them, feed them and give them shelter when they are in need. Next to the right to employment stands the duty to provide efficient service. Everyone has the responsibility to work, each according to his ability and possibilities, in order to obtain the resources for survival, thus achieving personal progress and social development. Along with the right to health goes the responsibility to contribute to a healthy and clean environment. With the right to enjoy the benefits of progress goes the responsibility to contribute to development. With the right to the freedom of expression goes the responsibility of tolerating differing opinions. In short, every right has a corresponding duty or responsibility. With the fall of the Berlin wall, the age in which the State was expected to be responsible for everything came to a close. Today, we must all participate together in the search for new paths for our individual development and for that of our countries and of all humanity. The passing of time motivates us to renew our basic principles. I therefore propose that we once again adopt an ethic of development based principally on individual responsibility as well as on the responsibility of nations. The well-being and the development of nations are the result of individual well-being and the development of the people that make up that society. Social well-being should not be measured by how many people are assisted by social programmes financed from national budgets but by how many people leave those programmes because they have become able to manage on their own. In his book, Underdevelopment is a State of Mind, Lawrence Harrison defines a negative attitude as a barrier to development and a positive attitude — based on the belief in one’s own ability to improve oneself through individual effort — as a driving force of development. In order to bolster all the elements I have cited, it is essential that the right to accede to public office should be accompanied by the responsibility to carry out one’s duties honestly. At the current session of the General Assembly, several heads of State have emphasized the need to fight corruption. It is a responsibility that has rightly been gaining ground. In Nicaragua, we have undertaken the arduous fight against corruption. First, corrupt bureaucrats have been brought to trial and sentenced, just as is happening in other Latin American countries. Secondly, we have brought before the National Assembly a body of legislation to strengthen our fight against corruption. Thirdly, we have established a programme for integrity and transparency that prevents corrupt practices in the executive branch and which provides a model for the other branches of Government in 5 undertaking reform and increasing transparency. For example, we have published on the Internet, for everyone to see — for the countries extending assistance, international organizations and the media — both the Republic’s national budget and the details of external assistance. Fourthly, we have undertaken to fight the culture of corruption, including by teaching values and promoting the idea of the individual as the maker of his or her own destiny. We must work for a United Nations that reaffirms its credibility and authority by taking the appropriate effective collective action. Nicaragua recognizes the importance of the proposals various countries have submitted to this forum, in particular Spain’s proposal to reduce external debt in exchange for initiatives for social development, particularly in the area of primary education, and the United States proposal to create a fund for democracy. Nicaragua views with approval that such a democracy fund would be partially allocated to training and support for auditing and judicial entities, given that corruption is the greatest foe of democracy. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan said yesterday, “They notice when we use words to mask inaction”. Nicaragua’s energy and determination are devoted to those efforts. Recent world events have demonstrated once again the evil nature of terrorism and how it breaks down the values of humanity and civilization. I reiterate my most sincere condolences to all those countries and individuals around the world that have suffered the effects of terrorism. I underline that we deplore, to cite only the most recent acts, those who caused the loss of the precious lives of innocent children in the Russian Federation. We also repudiate the attack against the Australian Embassy in Jakarta. The best way to defeat terrorism is to remain faithful to our values of freedom, dignity and justice. Terrorism rejects those values. Nicaragua aspires to be elected as a non- permanent member of the Security Council for 2006 and 2007. Nicaragua, a founding country of the Organization, has known and suffered the horrors of war and has undertaken the democratization of our nation. It is by virtue of the valuable school of our recent history that we can participate in the Security Council. As I stated in this forum last year, whoever knows the horrors of war can contribute more effectively to preventing it. I cannot fail to refer to the question of Taiwan’s representation in the United Nations. That country, with 23 million inhabitants, has a democratic Government and maintains diplomatic, trade and cooperative relations with many Member States of the Organization. However, paradoxically, it lacks membership. That exclusion is inexcusable. At the beginning of this session, we heard the sad messages from Haiti and the Dominican Republic, which have suffered the devastating effects of nature. I convey our solidarity, encouragement and hope to those countries and to the victims of natural disasters in the United States, Grenada, Jamaica, Panama, the Bahamas, Cuba, Grand Cayman and other islands of the Caribbean. This afternoon, I began my address by speaking of the responsibilities of citizens. That is the way for our peoples to attain their hopes, expectations and dreams. May God bless the United Nations and may God always bless Nicaragua.I have the honour to represent the President of Ecuador, Mr. Lucio Gutiérrez Borbúa, and the people of Ecuador in this world forum of nations, to affirm once again that my country, Ecuador, is an ally of States committed to peace and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Ecuador is a law-abiding country, upholds the principle of international security and solidarity and is a staunch defender of all the mandates arising from the Charter of the United Nations. It is worth highlighting once again that Ecuador, in its relations with the international community, opposes all forms of discrimination or segregation, colonialism or neocolonialism. On this occasion, the Government of Ecuador must once again ask the community of nations and the international financial organisms to not lose sight of the heavy burden on our countries represented by the service of the debt, which, year after year, severely strains our economies. The Ecuadorian Government calls on the United Nations to move forward with greater determination in identifying specific actions aimed at effectively reducing existing pressures, and, furthermore, in formulating proposals to efficiently address with this issue in the long term and enable our countries to develop. The Government of Ecuador must also draw attention to one of the most momentous problems afflicting the international community, namely the protection of civilians in armed conflict. This terrible problem reflects a reality entirely at odds with the most elementary ethical and moral principles of human conduct and that destroys the basic premises of civilized co-existence, in which respect for life and the dignity of all individuals must necessarily be a priority. It is time for the international community and the United Nations to give absolute priority to this issue and to find the political will and determination to tackle and eliminate every bloody and inhuman conflict in which international humanitarian law no longer prevails. The Security Council is duty-bound, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, to reinforce the protection of civilians in armed conflicts, in order to avoid undermining the entire international juridical structure. True to its international commitments and its humanitarian vocation, Ecuador has been welcoming thousands of refugees and immigrants from Colombia and other countries who have fled their countries because their lives, freedom and economic security have been threatened. We must remind the international community that, in order to solve this critical situation, we need the commitment of every country and international organism. For this reason, it is essential that in conformity with principles of shared responsibility and shared burdens, countries, such as Ecuador, which take in refugees and immigrants, should receive greater technical and economic support. This support is necessary to alleviate the social burden resulting from large numbers of persons entering local border communities, which experience higher levels of poverty and lack basic services. With regard to the analysis of the northern border of Ecuador made by the United Nations inter-agency mission, we appreciate the support offered by the United Nations Secretary-General to implement the development proposals suggested in the report. Ecuador would also like to have the support of the international community and the international financial institutions in this undertaking. 51 The Government of Ecuador urges the international community to make good its commitment to the implementation of programmes established by Ecuador and Peru within the framework of the bi-national development plan for their common border, following the signing of the peace agreements in Brasilia in 1998. These projects aim at meeting the basic needs of the populations of the region, through social programmes and infrastructure projects. However, both Ecuador and Peru require the financial support of the countries that pledged their assistance for the post-conflict era. To our countries’ development problems we must add the persistent trade barriers which developed countries impose on our exportable products, as well as the subsidies worth millions that they grant to their own products, especially agricultural ones, which seriously limit normal competition among countries, increase unemployment and threaten the future of the education, health and well-being of our peoples. Deteriorating conditions in developing countries have resulted in increased flows of migrants towards industrialized centres in search of employment, which is no longer available in their own countries. In some countries, this exodus has met with restrictive and unfair policies based on xenophobic concepts that, instead of providing a solution to the existing problem and to its root causes, make it even worse. International migration is a problem that has grown more severe during the last decade. Each year, more countries are affected by migration movements, which are commanding increasing attention at the decision-making level. Migration reflects the human longing to have the opportunity to pursue a better quality of life and enjoy greater economic prospects. It also promotes exchange and understanding between peoples, strengthens dialogue and adds cultural and economic enrichment. The history of humanity is inconceivable without constant migratory flows. It is evident, then, that the consequences of these migration movements have economic, political, social and demographic effects, as much for the countries of departure as for those of arrival. In this context, and in this current era of market globalization, emphasis must be placed on the liberalization of the supply of services via the free movement of persons. Ecuador is strongly committed to cooperating in the search for solutions to this huge problem through a strict control of the illegal migration of persons and the elaboration of universal agreements that favour the development of human beings within their respective countries. However, to this end we require active cooperation between migrant source and recipient countries, as well as from international organizations. My country has traditionally maintained a policy of promoting, respecting and protecting the human rights of migrants, and for this reason, from this General Assembly, I would like to appeal to all Governments and all sectors of society, particularly those of the developed world that receive migrant workers, to direct their efforts towards the protection of the rights of this vulnerable sector of society in a non-discriminatory manner, taking into consideration the highly positive and productive aspects of migration. The territory of Ecuador is home to 12 nationalities and more than 17 ethnic groups. This diversity has been recognized in the Constitution of the Republic, which defines Ecuador as a social democracy that promotes the equitable distribution of welfare. The fundamental charter of the Ecuadorian State lays down a legal framework that promotes the participation of ethnic minorities in political structures and processes and guarantees the exercise of the constitutional rights of these groups in the public and private spheres. The Government of my country cannot fail to mention that inequality has been, and continues to be, the greatest impediment to economic development and poverty alleviation in many developing countries. The disparity of wealth and income currently evident within and among many countries is a matter of concern for the international community. In order to prevent this inequality, we need to adopt effective multilateral measures aimed at effectively reducing poverty, which in itself constitutes an affront to human dignity and consequently harms the rights of individuals. In this sense, it has become imperative that the intent of international summits addressing issues of development and poverty eradication become manifest through internal plans and programs based on enhanced international cooperation. The Government of Ecuador supports these activities, which are embodied in three key areas: poverty reduction, political governance and 52 transparency, and sustainable development through equitable access to natural resources. This commitment has led Ecuador to be chosen as an example for the implementation of innovative models, with the goal of optimizing the assistance and the quality of the country’s response. I believe it is essential that the voice of my country be heard on the topic of terrorism. This phenomenon has endangered the equilibrium, peace, harmony, and security of the planet. It has torn the socio-political fabric of societies, damaged financial structures and undermined the functioning of States’ security apparatus. I wish to reiterate the most unreserved support and backing of the Government of Ecuador for all initiatives and actions created to fight international terrorism in all its forms and characteristics, but always within the framework of the decisions of the United Nations, of international law and of absolute respect for human rights. We must highlight the fact that hunger, ill health, poverty, great economic disparities, lack of respect for human rights, corruption, attempts to resolve disputes and conflicts by non-peaceful means and the growing weight of external debt are the seeds of international instability and insecurity; they undermine governance and are factors that destabilize democratic institutions. The international community must become fully aware of the fact that these harsh daily realities confronting developing countries also represent a threat to world security. Therefore, we must directly combat terrorism with a broad-based and concerted global strategy to foster development, improve the living conditions of a large part of the marginalized world population and encourage dialogue and tolerance, both between human beings and among States. The international community needs to make the protection and security of individuals a global policy objective. The security of the State, of society and of individuals requires a consideration of the threats to their fundamental values, which are sovereignty, identity and survival. Only on that basis must we establish the parameters of political, economic and military action in a globalized world. Ecuador, as a founding Member of the United Nations, resolutely supports the multilateral system, since it constitutes the best guarantee for the full operation of the purposes and principles that led to its creation and which are enshrined in its Charter. As a result, Ecuador fully supports the current process of reform of the United Nations, particularly of its main bodies, such as the Security Council, along with the revitalization of the General Assembly. We are convinced that that will contribute to more effective action in the fulfilment of its mission. My country wishes to highlight the statement made here by the Prime Minister of Spain — his words of solidarity with the cause of Latin American peoples and his commitment to support the reduction of debt and of inequalities, as well as to promote and strengthen relations between the European Union and Latin America. Ecuador welcomes this expression of good will shown by Spain’s Prime Minister, since achieving those goals will contribute to the welfare of the peoples. Finally, democracy and respect for Governments legitimately established through popular vote are the greatest triumphs of Latin America in recent decades. No attempt whatsoever should be made to revise this basic principle of international policy, lest we seriously affect the system of normal coexistence among nations. In conclusion, allow me to urge the international community to always bear in mind the precious ideals of human beings that inspire this Organization, as set forth in the Preamble to its Charter, which are the fundamental mandates for its Members and various bodies.I should like at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session and to commend the outgoing President, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his work. I should also like to express once again our appreciation for the efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to promote peace and multilateralism. We have come from the South to renew our resolve to participate actively in United Nations efforts to promote peace, economic development and the eradication of hunger and poverty. My country is grateful for the endorsement of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States to occupy a seat on the Security Council for that regional Group as a non- permanent member during the period 2005-2006. There, the Republic of Argentina will reaffirm its willingness to promote consensus aimed at strengthening international law and international peace and security. Those are values that we associate with representative democracy, respect for human rights, a fair global trade system, a better distribution of the benefits of globalization and the democratization of decision-making in international organizations. The United Nations must strengthen itself and move forward in the establishment of valid rules and procedures to guarantee international peace and security. The report of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change could play a key role in this area. Its proposals should be properly discussed and agreed upon in order to implement concrete decisions that reflect and meet the different perspectives and interests of all Member States. We are convinced that there is no acceptable alternative to multilateral action. Only through collective debate and consensus could a majority of countries ensure genuine action. The only legitimacy for the use of force must come from the decisions of the Security Council. Because of this, we support efforts to provide the Council with greater transparency, and with the participation of the international community in its decisions, without this meaning increasing the existing privileges or establishing new categories. 27 The Council's action should be innovative and express the political will of the international community, all the while recognizing the fact that the primary responsibility in avoiding conflicts will always rest with the parties involved. We firmly condemn the acts of international terrorism and related crimes that have so deeply marked the memory of the people of Argentina and of other nations of the world, making it the maximum priority. In this war against terrorism, we require the active participation and cooperation of the entire international community, based on respect for international law. There is a necessary link between respect for human rights and the fight against terrorism. And we must preserve the balance between necessary defence and respect for human rights. In order to successfully tackle terrorism, we must ensure legitimacy by having the support of international public opinion. According to this logic, the fight transcends the purely military and predominantly unilateral reaction. In our view, modern threats to peace come from both the criminal action of terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, from massive human rights violations and the absence of democratic political participation. But stability and security are also affected by hunger and extreme poverty, by social exclusion, by ignorance and illiteracy, by the spread of disease and epidemics and by irreversible damage to the environment. As a result, understanding that peace and development mutually reinforce each other, we must work in a multilateral framework that promotes national and international economic systems based on the principles of justice, equity, democracy, participation, transparency, responsibility and social inclusion. Our commitment to peace and to the strengthening of democracy in the world requires decisive action, which makes it possible to combat hunger, illiteracy and disease. These phenomena weaken peopleís autonomy and dignity and make it difficult for them to exercise their full rights as citizens. In June 2005, the Third Inter-American Meeting of Ministers of Health and the Environment, which we are preparing, will work on the assessment of our compliance with the Millennium Development Goals in the region and will submit its conclusions to the Summit of Heads of State of the Americas, which will take place in Argentina in November 2005. We know that the problems that are linked to inequality and poverty cannot be resolved with social policies that are based purely on assistance. Even when plans and programmes providing assistance are a necessary resource, we should avoid the growth of societies that are divided between those who work and those who receive assistance. In this framework, it is important for work to feature prominently on the international agenda, linked to freedom, justice, security and protection, taking into account the fact that it is the principal means of social integration. Economic growth is a necessary prerequisite, but it alone is not enough to remedy the high rates of unemployment, lack of job security and work in the informal sector besetting our societies. In the recent past, many of our countries we have experienced periods of high growth with low rates of job creation, high concentrations of income and a significant increase in poverty. It is clear evidence of the erroneous nature of the myth that economic growth has trickle-down effects. Accordingly, it is important for us to pursue active policies that stimulate business and productive investment and give priority to the generation of decent jobs, within a new model that endows economic change with a strong ethical component. Decent jobs are a more effective instrument for ensuring material and human progress and should become a goal during the international community during the next decade. Institutional conditions that would generate jobs are of a varied nature and depend on the specific context of every country. However, in developing countries, the ability of democratic governments to meet the legitimate demands of job creation from their societies are impaired by the protectionist measures that limit trade, especially in the agricultural sector. The developed world spends more than $300 billion a year on production subsidies, a figure six times higher than that of the direct aid given to poor countries. The poorest countries lose almost $40 billion a year through loss of exports due to the agricultural protectionism of industrialized countries. The world and the attitude of the developed countries must change if we are to turn things around. No political system or economic plan can be sustainable while we have the current critical levels of 28 poverty and inequality. This is not something that will favour a particular group of countries; it will promote peace and security throughout the world. In addition, there is the problem of excessive external indebtedness, the current design of the international financial machinery and the role played by multilateral funding organizations. The 1990s, with its financial excesses at the global level, saw the expansion of already oversized debts for a large number of countries. For the sake of the development of these countries and the international financial system itself, it is important to emphasize the idea that economic growth is the central and decisive variable when it comes to capacity to pay and debt sustainability. During the recent international financial crises, multilateral funding agencies made a series of mistakes in trying to resolve these problems. The solutions proposed spread to other countries, and this greatly magnified the problem of hunger and poverty. Argentinaís case is an example. After having applied throughout the 1990s the formulas proposed by the multilateral financial agencies, the country experienced a financial crisis that is still not entirely resolved. In 2002, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) made a serious mistake in diagnosing the problem that led to major prognostic errors and poor policy recommendations. On the basis of our more recent experience, and because of the debt experience, we conclude that we have to provide greater leeway to national authorities. We need a different relationship with the IMF, one favouring a solution consistent with the countryís capacity to pay, sustainable over the medium and long term and supportive of the principles of equality, social justice, the fight against poverty, hunger and unemployment. We must promote the reformulation of fiscal accounting methods in the majority of countries, and in particular in the international financial organizations, with the aim of excluding investment in infrastructure, from current spending in the calculation of surpluses. We know that fiscal surpluses are necessary in order to stabilize economies and respect obligations to the international financial community, but it must be understood that no surplus is defensible. When surpluses are achieved, thanks to the elimination of investment in physical and social infrastructure, this affects the possibility of political stability and growth, which turns something that was positive for countries into an imbalance and a negative for the overall functioning of the economy. From the tragedy of excessively indebted countries, we conclude that simple formulas which claim to be universal and applicable under any circumstance, at any time and in any place are only ideological approaches to concrete issues that must be resolved with realism, flexibility and proactive attitudes. We take responsibility for the adoption of alien policies that led us to the worst of all worlds. But it is not enough for the multilateral lending agencies simply to acknowledge their mistake in recommending, requiring and supporting such policies. What we need is an urgent and drastic structural reform of the IMF that will enable it to prevent crises and help to resolve them. From a lender of development funds it has become a creditor demanding concessions. This trend has to change. Otherwise, we will be confined to structural reforms of a theoretical nature the results of which will guarantee nothing to anyone, and then a series of self-critical reviews. Meanwhile, in our countries inequality will increase because of the implementation of those reforms. The excluded millions those reforms have created will weep and poverty will spread. Mea culpas will be uttered, and we will see the growth in the number of poor people, if we bother to notice them. That is why we say that what is most in need of structural reform are the international lending agencies. On another subject, we firmly support United Nations peacekeeping operations set up through the appropriate organs. This year we have doubled our military and police staff in peacekeeping operations; currently Argentina is involved in eight of the present 16 operations. The recently created United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti is of particular importance. It is the only mission established by the Security Council today that is located on American soil. The region has made a commitment to help the poorest country in the Americas to return to the path of growth and freedom and to guarantee democracy as the best way of ensuring dignity, social and economic development and full respect for human rights. 29 In that regard, Argentina reaffirms its position of principle based on universal respect for human rights and for international humanitarian law. The history of Argentina explains my Governmentís firm position on an issue that is now part of its identity as a democratic nation. International disputes must be settled through peaceful means. The United Nations has established, through different resolutions of the General Assembly and the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, that the question of the Malvinas South Georgia and the South Sandwich islands is a special colonial situation, which must be resolved through bilateral negotiations between my country and the United Kingdom. The decolonization Committee has expressed itself repeatedly on this issue, and we greatly appreciate its work to promote the resolution of this question. We reaffirm once again the constant willingness of my country to reach a just, peaceful and lasting solution to this sovereignty dispute, which is an issue of great importance for the people of Argentina. We urge the United Kingdom to comply promptly with the international communityís appeal and to resume negotiations. In the southern framework, we are committed to protecting the international communityís interests in Antarctica by ensuring that all activities there are compatible with the Antarctic Treaty and with its Madrid Protocol on Environmental Protection. The establishment of the Antarctic Treaty secretariat in Buenos Aires is already a reality. We are grateful for the assistance of those who always supported Argentina as home of the secretariat, which undoubtedly will contribute to achieving the main objectives of the Antarctic Treaty system. As a peace-loving State committed to multilateralism, Argentina has always supported the settlement of disputes through negotiation and dialogue, in keeping with equity and justice. In that respect, our country fully supports the achievement of a stable and lasting peace in the Middle East, based on the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to self- determination and to an independent, viable State, while at the same time supporting the right of Israel to live in peace with its neighbours within safe and internationally recognized borders. We hope that the parties will resume negotiations with a view to resolving their differences and will comply with their respective obligations under the road map ó a plan which Argentina, along with the rest of the international community, considers the best way to achieve a lasting and just peace in the region. The Argentine Republic supports the attainment of the objectives of reducing hunger and poverty and the provision of safe drinking water and sanitation, which were the main topics of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg 10 years after the Rio de Janeiro Conference on Environment and Development. The protection of the atmosphere is of special concern to us, with respect not only to the ozone layer, but to all the action needed to attenuate climate change and to help adapt to the changes that are already taking place ó which are at the root of the severe weather conditions that affect developing countries in particular. In view of our concern, and convinced of the need for the prompt entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol, we have invited to Buenos Aires the tenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in order to help to give greater impetus to our joint effort to adapt. I hope to be able to welcome and host Government delegations at the high-level segment that I will have the honour of opening in Buenos Aires. For that reason, we are calling upon the Assembly to show the necessary strength, courage and resolve to create a world of justice and equity and to put an end to the unfair rules often imposed by multilateral financial institutions, which cause very difficult problems for many countries and which increase poverty.I am delighted to be participating, for the first time, in the deliberations of the General Assembly as head of State and Government of the Republic of Malawi. I should like to begin by joining others who have spoken before me in congratulating Mr. Jean Ping on his assumption of the high office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I have no doubt that his election will provide an opportunity to increase global awareness of the enormous challenges that Africa and other less developed regions of the world are facing. I hope that, through him, the opportunity for the poor countries to fully participate in world economic prosperity will be enhanced. I also wish to avail myself of this opportunity to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, for guiding the work of the fifty-eighth session with admirable skill and pragmatism. We also salute Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary- General of the United Nations, for the dynamic leadership skills that he continues to display in steering the affairs of the Organization. I have entitled my statement 'Sharing global prosperity'. I have done so in order to underscore the fact that one of the most daunting challenges facing the international community today is to achieve a balance in economic transformation and growth between the rich and the poor countries so as to eradicate poverty among the latter. In looking at the future of the United Nations, we need to take stock of the response to world poverty. I am aware that several attempts have been made by the international community to alleviate poverty - and the goal is still being pursued - but the results so far have been dismal. During the past 30 years, for example, the number of least developed countries has risen from 25 to 49. This means that globally, economic growth is in reverse gear. Among the questions we are asking with regard to the sharing of global prosperity is this: why 28 are the industrialized countries more prosperous, while in Africa and the rest of the developing countries poverty is increasing? In other words, why has globalization failed to achieve a more equitable distribution of global prosperity? In Malawi we have discovered that we need to seriously transform our economic structures in order to begin to provide and produce new wealth. This can be achieved by transforming the abundant agricultural commodities, raw materials and minerals into goods that can be traded globally. It is only by creating new wealth in rural areas that we can effectively eradicate poverty. Our major strategy is to gain a share in global prosperity by transforming Malawi from being an importing and consuming country to being a predominantly producing and exporting country. In other words, we must begin to position our economy to take full advantage of global trade. This will be achieved through intensive industrial research and the application of science and technology to the specific conditions in my country. Malawi - as in the case of most African countries - is richly endowed with a wide range of agricultural primary commodities, good soil and water resources that can enable us to develop viable agro- processing and manufacturing industries. The critical issue for us in Malawi, therefore, is the creation of new wealth as the basis for poverty reduction. In order to do that, we must encourage significant domestic savings, as well as inflows of resources, especially foreign direct investment. We in Malawi estimate that in order to alleviate poverty, we need to achieve an annual growth rate of at least 6 per cent over the next decade. In order to achieve that, we are determined to create conditions for sustainable macroeconomic growth through fundamental policy reforms to improve economic and political governance. We have put in place measures for the reform of the public sector, the agricultural sector and the private sector. We are also determined to improve good governance by stamping out corruption. To that end, we have adopted a zero-tolerance stance with regard to corruption. I am therefore happy to have signed, yesterday, the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Malawi is cognizant of the fact that our national vision must be fully supported by the international community. That is why Malawi joins the call for better market access and lower tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade in industrialized countries. Malawi would therefore like to stress the need to advance the dialogue in the Doha development agenda. For their part, the industrialized nations need to seriously address the major concerns of the poor economies. The challenge for industrialized countries is therefore to share with the poor countries the prosperity that comes about through globalization, by assisting us to stand on our own and to develop appropriate technologies for transforming our agricultural raw materials, minerals and other natural resources into wealth. In Malawi, we believe that a partner who walks with you side-by-side down the road is better than one whom you have to carry on your shoulders. We want to walk with the industrialized nations; we do not want to be carried on their shoulders. Some positive efforts that Malawi welcomes towards global equity include the various initiatives taken by the Group of Eight countries aimed at addressing some of the concerns to which I have just referred. Among those are the United Kingdomís decision to significantly increase its aid and technical assistance to Africa; the reaffirmation of strong support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development; the decision by the United States Government to extend the African Growth and Opportunity Act from 2008 to 2015; and the European Union's 'Everything But Arms' initiative, which seeks to enhance opportunities for increased access for African exports into the European market. Those initiatives are, indeed, encouraging, and my Government fully appreciates them. I wish, however, to appeal for those noble promises and commitments to be matched by action. We need proof that actions speak louder than words. The management of foreign debt is another positive way in which global prosperity can be shared. Our concern is that, in spite of numerous initiatives aimed at finding a durable solution to the debt problem, the world is nowhere near that solution. My Government is still allocating a significant amount of our resources to debt-servicing at the expense of investment in infrastructure, production and income 29 generation. Such diversion of resources has led, among other things, to the deepening of poverty and a lack of significant macroeconomic growth. However, Malawi, like other eligible African countries, had welcomed arrangements for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative. But the conditions for reaching the decision and completion points are so arduous that only a few countries in sub-Saharan Africa have managed to reach the completion stage. We believe that the preconditions for the HIPC Initiative are unrealistic. Surely, less stringent conditionalities would have enabled more countries to succeed. That notwithstanding, Malawi welcomes the measures by some bilateral donors to respond to the external debt crisis. In particular, I must mention the Government of Japan, which, a few weeks ago, cancelled a debt Malawi owed it, amounting to $256 million. I take this opportunity to thank Japan most sincerely for that gesture. We hope that other industrialized countries will follow this example. I referred earlier to the need for adequate donor support to sustain national initiatives. In that regard, I believe that the New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD) provides a framework for sharing the responsibility for economic development between Africa and the rich countries. It is for that reason that Malawi has acceded to NEPADís African Peer Review Mechanism in a bid to put in place internationally accepted political and economic good governance. Our accession to the African Peer Review Mechanism is also a demonstration of our confidence in the NEPAD programme as a tool to enhance Africaís effective participation in global prosperity. Let me now turn to a global challenge that threatens all development efforts. This is the HIV/AIDS pandemic. The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to pound incessantly upon the African economies, destroying the capacity of many countries to achieve sustainable economic development. Because it affects the most productive segment of our labour force, we are losing more qualified and experienced personnel much faster than we can train new ones. The HIV/AIDS pandemic is a human tragedy of unimaginable proportions. Experience in dealing with this disaster in my country has taught us that HIV/AIDS is a medical crisis, an economic crisis, a social crisis and a political crisis. It is a medical crisis because no cure has yet been found for HIV/AIDS. It is an economic crisis because it is depleting financial and human resources for development while also devastating our national capacities for good governance. HIV/AIDS is a social crisis because of the stigma that makes the affected unable to be integrated into normal day-to-day relations as well as in the work places. HIV/AIDS has also created a large number of orphans that need to be cared for. HIV/AIDS is a political crisis because it threatens democratic institutions by killing politicians and others who are the voice of the people. Therefore, in order to deal with this pandemic, we have learned the imperative of adopting a holistic approach. It is for that reason that we appeal to the United Nations to collectively raise new awareness, new assumptions and new solutions. To that end, the United Nations ought to redesign its policy in providing support, care, treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS, alongside the provision of adequate, nutritious food and a proper diet. Before concluding my statement, I wish to raise another concern I have concerning the efforts towards sustainable growth and the development of the world. This relates to the need for world peace. One can hardly emphasize enough that, without global peace, there cannot be global prosperity. In that regard, I would like to welcome the efforts made by the Secretary-General, jointly with the Security Council, in taking a number of decisive steps towards conflict prevention, resolution and management around the globe. Turning to the specific issues of peace in Africa, I am concerned that sub-Saharan Africa has been and continues to be one of the most unstable and conflict- prone regions of the globe. The region also happens to be home to most of the worldís poorest people, who are living below the international poverty line. The conflict in Sudan's Darfur region, in particular, is yet another sad chapter in the history of sub-Saharan Africa and one that the African people can ill afford. Africa and the international community must find quick and lasting solutions to the crisis in the Darfur region. I would like to conclude my statement by assuring the General Assembly that my Government fully endorses the proposals to reform the United Nations. We share the belief that a more representative 30 and democratic United Nations will enhance the efficiency and credibility of this global Organization. It will also enhance the efforts towards a just and more equitable sharing of global prosperity. May God bless the United Nations.At the outset, allow me to begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. The United Nations has long stood for the loftiest aspirations and the noblest causes of mankind. In times of strife, it is the United Nations that holds out the hope of harmony. In times of deprivation and suffering, it is the United Nations that holds out the hope of healing. After almost 60 years, however, this Organization, on which we pin so much hope, finds itself in the midst of an existential crisis. In a world ever more complex and less predictable, the United Nations has been struggling to redefine its meaning, identity and relevance for the era of globalization. To confront those new realities and more, no challenge will be greater than making the United Nations a more effective Organization for the times. No challenge will be greater than living up to the highest ideals of the United Nations with more action and fewer words. Our United Nations locomotive is powered by the commitment and good will of its Members. It can take us as far as we want to go, but only if we all pull together. It can take us at any speed, but only if the power of commitment and good will is fully energized. For whatever it is and for whatever it will be, the United Nations is the creation of its Members. So, in demanding more of the United Nations, we must also demand more of ourselves. And in asking the United Nations to do more, we must also be ready to be committed more. The task ahead of us all is to make sure that all concerted efforts are made nationally, regionally and globally to advance the causes the United Nations stands for and to restore total confidence in the working of multilateralism. Multilateralism cannot thrive or sustain without foundation. The foundation of the United Nations and its multilateralism may be its 191 Member States, but what bond binds the 191 Member States to the United Nations multilateral system? The world’s strategic, political and economic landscape of the twenty-first century is certainly far different, more complex and more intertwined than that of 1945. The layers of interwoven fibre that support such a multilateral institution as the United Nations must be modified and strengthened. It is Thailand’s belief that, given today’s international landscape, there is a greater need than ever to create new layers of regional and subregional building blocks to strengthen the United Nations multilateral foundation. Those building blocks are the bond that binds nations to the multilateral system. In so doing, those regional and subregional building blocks must bear the responsibility of supporting and advancing the United Nations goals on security and development: reducing poverty, combating international terrorism, fighting transnational crime, 16 promoting human dignity and human rights, and upholding the human race as a whole. In South-East Asia, the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) is to create its three-pillared community — the ASEAN Economic Community, the ASEAN Security Community and the ASEAN Socio- Cultural Community — by the year 2020. The realization of ASEAN communities, as in other regional or subregional communities, requires bridging the development gap. It was Thailand’s initiative to take on the role of building that bridge by introducing the Economic Cooperation Strategy — known as ACMECS — and thereby laying a faster track towards sustainable development for its neighbours: Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam. Through the creation of more jobs and the narrowing of the income gap, that strategy will serve as a building block for ASEAN’s three- pillared community. Further to the east, the ASEAN 10 are working with its East Asian friends to create the East Asian Community, comprising the ASEAN 10, China, Japan and the Republic of Korea. To the west, Thailand sees the need to connect south-east Asia’s development with its friends in South Asia. The first summit of the Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Thailand Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) — seven countries in South-East and South Asia around the Bay of Bengal — took place in Thailand in July, agreeing on a free trade area within the group which forms an economic and development bridge between the two subregions. These building blocks and that partnership are part and parcel of the firm foundation for the Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD), the first pan-Asian development forum. The ACD was initiated on the basis of Thailand’s conviction as to the virtue of partnership in drawing strength from diversity and in transforming diversity from a phenomenon that tears us apart to a force that unites us. With 25 member countries — countries from every part of Asia — and still growing, the two-and-a- half-year-old ACD will become an important building block for multilateral cooperation and the United Nations multilateral system. Through such building blocks, we can learn to live with one another’s differences and to cultivate a culture of peace and tolerance in order to counteract the violence and terror in today’s world. We cherish multilateralism as the best means to secure peace around the world. We cherish multilateralism as the best means to develop prosperity around the world. But above all, we cherish multilateralism as the best means to achieve both security and development worldwide. By the same token, State security and human security, which foster development, must always be two sides of the same coin. From Iraq to Saudi Arabia, from Indonesia to Russia, shocking acts of terror have been perpetrated, seemingly calculated to shake confidence and undermine hope. As civilized societies, we must come together to fight terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, wherever it may occur. Terrorism is a direct threat to State security, but it also undermines human security. That is why the development of human security and State security must proceed on parallel tracks. The world cannot be a secure place if its population is still suffering from poverty and deprivation. The world cannot really be peaceful if we cannot be successful in our efforts to make progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals. That is why Thailand believes in the enhancement of human security as a means of making the nation secure. Domestically, the Ministry of Social Development and Human Security is in charge of our policy and implementation. Internationally, we are active in the Human Security Network and in other international arenas in which human security issues are paramount. Thailand has long advocated balanced development, with freedom from fear and freedom from want as the two inseparable prongs of human security. We intend to continue to do so even more intensively as Thailand prepares to assume the chairmanship of the Human Security Network in 2005- 2006. We intend to further advocate such balanced development by embracing partnership between the Government and civil society. The Human Security Network statement issued in Thailand on the eve of the 15th International AIDS Conference in Bangkok last July — which was attended by more than 25,000 people and recognized 17 HIV/AIDS as an issue of both development and human security — clearly reflects development and security as interconnected. We view the issue of landmines in the same light. They are as much a humanitarian issue as a development one. As President of the Fifth Meeting of the States Parties to the Mine-Ban Convention, I have been working with the World Bank to reflect that approach in carrying out mine action. I am grateful for the Bank’s cooperation in realizing the development dimension of the landmine issue. I also appreciate the Bank’s readiness to mobilize resources for the training of deminers and capacity-building for survivors so that they may function as productive members of society. We are confident that the World Bank partnership will provide States parties to the Convention with greater resources that will help to achieve the Convention’s goal. As we try to secure peace for the world; as attempts are made to shatter our world’s peace and security with terror, fear, hatred and violence; as many struggle against poverty; and as we pledge our commitment to the Millennium Development Goals, the multilateral system that we need to rely upon is facing challenges and threats to its effectiveness of unprecedented a magnitude and proportion. However, amid those challenges, we are fortunate to see today nations building partnership with nations; nations learning to live with differences, and even turning differences and diversity into a common strength; and nations learning to achieve a higher level of tolerance, working at the economical, cultural and political levels to nurture a culture of peace and a culture of tolerance. Through building blocks like the ones Thailand has been initiating in Asia, throughout Africa, Latin America, Europe and elsewhere, and through South- South cooperation, a number of responsible nations are ready to make contributions, in their own way, to turn differences into cooperation and partnerships. Those partnerships and building blocks deal with security and development, the two defining principles of the United Nations. Those partnerships and building blocks can lay the foundation for a more effective functioning of the United Nations multilateral system — a system that needs redefining and redesigning to respond effectively to the new geosocial and political landscape of the world. Present-day realities — the emergence of building blocks, the inextricable linkage between development and security, and the need to develop human and State security on parallel tracks — clearly reflect how much the world has changed since 1945. That is why United Nations reform is not a question only of the effectiveness of any particular organ of the Organization. Nor is it merely a question of numbers or composition. It is fundamental, therefore, to ask some pertinent questions. How can the United Nations be made more responsive to current needs and realities, so that it devotes equal attention to the issues of security and development? What would be the best mechanism to deal adequately with issues of development and long- term global economic issues? What would be the best mechanism to deal adequately with post-conflict nation-building and reconstruction? What would be the best mechanism to ensure a greater participation of civil society, recognizing it as an important constituency for development and conflict resolution? How to ensure cooperation among the multilateral United Nations system and regional, subregional and interregional organizations, recognizing them as important building blocks for a more effective multilateralism? Security Council reform is needed. That much is not in doubt. But if expansion is needed, what realistic criteria are necessary for the expansion to reach greater effectiveness? Does it need to be more transparent? What are the roles and relationship among its members? Concerning the General Assembly, a body represented now by almost 200 Member States, more than three times larger than at the time of the founding of the United Nations, is it too cumbersome and do we remain content with its work process? How can the Assembly be streamlined, energized, and become more focused? Those are not all the questions asked, and Thailand is not the only one asking. But all of us will have to find the answers. While we are all entitled to different views, opinions, and analyses, ultimately the decision must be made by us, the Member States of the United Nations. 18 Reform of such a venerable institution is never easy. We have to be realistic about that. But we have faith in the far-sightedness and wisdom of United Nations Members to take a holistic view and choose the right path, even if it is the path less travelled. Thailand pledges to apply all our experiences in forging partnerships in order to play a responsible and constructive role in contributing to the United Nations reform process. We have supported the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change and will look forward to its report in December, as well as to the fruitful and constructive debate by all of us thereafter. Whether the United Nations recovers from its mid-life crisis or sinks into irrelevance is up to us, the Member States. For what it is and what it will become, the United Nations is our own creation made of our own commitment and goodwill. It is up to us to rise to the challenge. Only when nations are united, will we get the United Nations.I am honoured to address the General Assembly for the first time. On behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, I convey to you, Mr. President, and to other members of the Bureau our warm congratulations on your election to steer the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I am confident that, with your experience and professionalism, you will lead us to the fruitful conclusion of this session. I would also like to pay tribute to His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte for his outstanding performance as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. Kenya is convinced that a vibrant, responsive and representative United Nations system is the desire of all Member States. My delegation welcomes the ongoing efforts to reorganize and revitalize the United Nations to make it more effective and efficient. The revitalization exercise must reaffirm the status of the General Assembly as the pre-eminent policy-making organ of the United Nations, as envisaged in the United Nations Charter. With respect to the Security Council, it should be enlarged, democratized and made more representative to reflect the Organization’s membership in the twenty-first century. We look forward to the findings of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, appointed by the Secretary- General during last year’s session of the General Assembly. I pay tribute to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his commitment and his efforts to ensure the capacity of United Nations offices, in particular the United Nations Office at Nairobi, the only United Nations headquarters in a developing country. We are encouraged to note that, during the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly, budgetary provisions were made for improving and modernizing conference facilities at the Nairobi Office. Nonetheless, there is still a great deal to be done. We urge the Secretary-General to significantly increase the regular budget component of funding the United Nations Office at Nairobi to bring it in line with the administrative and financial arrangements of similar United Nations Offices at Geneva and Vienna. The production, stockpiling, transfer and use of anti-personnel mines are problems of major proportions that have caused untold suffering to populations throughout the world, with Africa the most mine-affected continent. Kenya has been given the honour to host the First Review Conference of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on Their Destruction — the Ottawa Convention. The Conference — also known as the 2004 Nairobi Summit on a Mine-free World — will be held from 29 November to 3 December 2004. Among the events scheduled will be the pre-Conference ceremonies on 28 November, presided over by the President of the Republic of Kenya, the Honourable Mwai Kibaki, who has extended invitations to world leaders to attend the Conference. I take this opportunity to invite each and every one of those present here to participate at the highest possible level at the Conference. I also encourage them to take advantage of their presence in Nairobi to sample Kenya’s hospitality and particularly its world-famous safaris, as well as the sandy beaches along Kenya’s coast. 27 International peace, security and stability are prerequisites for sustainable development. Kenya recognized early that peace and stability should be the cornerstone of both its national and foreign policies. Consequently, Kenya has taken an active part in the search for peaceful solutions to conflicts in our subregion, in Africa and in the rest of the world. Within the framework of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Kenya is chairing the southern Sudan peace process and the Somali reconciliation process. I am pleased to report that, in the Sudan peace process, milestones have been achieved since the signing of the first protocols in 2002. The Nairobi Declaration on the final phase of the Sudan peace process was signed on 5 June 2004. Although the process has been long and tedious, a final peace agreement is within reach for the two- decade-long conflict. I would like to appeal to the international community to redouble its support and commitment in assisting the people of the Sudan to achieve peace through constructive dialogue. It is also my hope that events in the Darfur region will not subsume the positive developments achieved by the Naivasha process. However, post-conflict reconstruction will require considerable resources. The international community must rise to that challenge. As regards the Somali peace process, I am pleased to report encouraging developments in the past few weeks that indicate a willingness on the part of the people of Somalia to embrace peace after 14 years of turmoil. In mid-August, 275 members of Parliament were elected by representatives of the Somali people, and the Transitional Federal Parliament of the Somali Republic was inaugurated on 29 August in Nairobi. Subsequently, the Parliament elected its Speaker on 15 September 2004. It is expected that the President will be elected next month. The process has been long and costly, but, as a result of our determination and optimism, we hope to witness the installation of a Federal Government of Somalia by the end of this year. The presence of a Government in Mogadishu, however, should be not an end in itself, but the beginning of a long journey towards peace, stability and development. I appeal to the international community, and especially the United Nations, to move with speed and to provide the support necessary for capacity-building, infrastructure and security and other logistical support for the new Government. I would like to express Kenya’s gratitude for the assistance provided by IGAD Partners Forum, the United Nations and the international community as a whole in support of both peace processes. Long-standing conflicts in our subregion have led to the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, which constitute major security concerns to my country and others. For example, Kenya has been at the forefront of regional initiatives to combat this menace. In March 2000, Kenya hosted the First Ministerial Review Conference of the Nairobi Declaration on the Problem of the Proliferation of Illicit Small Arms and Light Weapons in the Great Lakes Region and the Horn of Africa, which produced the Declaration. In April this year, Kenya hosted the Second Ministerial Review Conference of the Nairobi Declaration, which adopted the Nairobi Protocol for the Prevention, Control and Reduction of Small Arms and Light Weapons. Those efforts are intended to consolidate a regional framework within which to deal with the problem of proliferation in order to improve security so that the people of the region can redirect their energies and resources towards meaningful economic activities. Kenya therefore welcomes and fully supports the convening of the international conference for the Great Lakes region on conflict and development, scheduled for 17-20 November 2004 in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. My delegation applauds the United Nations and the African Union for mobilizing support and resources for the preparation of the conference. The threat of international terrorism remains real. We unreservedly condemn all acts of international terrorism. On behalf of my delegation and the Kenyan people, I extend our sympathy to the Government and people of Russia on the recent barbaric terrorist attack on innocent school children, parents and teachers in Beslan. Kenya has been a victim of terrorist attacks in the recent past. We are therefore more convinced than ever of the need to address this issue collectively. No single country, however resourceful, has the capacity to successfully deal with it on its own. I would like to assure the Assembly that Kenya fully supports international efforts in dealing with this problem. Collective efforts to address the issue must be through international cooperation, information and intelligence sharing, coordinated by the United Nations. In line with the international efforts to ensure that peace and security prevail, we welcome the decision by the African Union to establish a standby African force. 28 Kenya has been honoured to host one of the regional centres, the Eastern Africa Brigade. We are ready to provide the requisite facilities and logistical support to the centre. On the international arena, Kenya has long been a major troop-contributing country in peacekeeping operations and will continue to actively participate with other nations under the aegis of the United Nations. We call upon the international community to assist the African Union in realizing the establishment of the force, which will be one of the key tools for ensuring peace and stability on the continent. Poverty remains a major impediment to sustainable development, particularly for developing countries. Current trends indicate that countries in sub- Saharan Africa will not meet the Millennium Development Goals by the year 2015. We emphasize the importance of the fulfilment of the eighth Millennium Development Goal on a global partnership for development, and especially the realization of the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product as official development assistance from developed countries. We therefore look forward to the outcome of the 2005 high-level plenary of the General Assembly on the review of the implementation of the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields, including the Millennium Declaration. The attainment of the Millennium Development Goals will depend on how effectively we deal with the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other related communicable diseases, among other problems. In sub-Saharan Africa, it has resulted in a reversal of economic and social gains made over the years. Governments need to develop strategic plans that identify key priority response areas, such as prevention and advocacy, treatment, care and support. Also important are the mitigation of the socio-economic impact and research. We are grateful to our development partners and the United Nations Global Fund for their support and provision of resources in fighting these diseases. We look forward to their continued assistance. At the regional level, tremendous progress has been made towards regional economic integration. The East African Community Customs Union Protocol, which was signed on 2 March 2004 by Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, is intended to create a single investment and trade area. We hope that this positive development will encourage local and foreign direct investment in the subregion. We welcome the support accorded to the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) initiative by the United Nations and the G-8 countries. However, we regret to note that the commitments made to the NEPAD initiative have not been fully realized and call upon our development partners to fulfil their pledges. This year, Kenya is facing a severe famine caused by drought, which has affected a large section of the population. Consequently, Kenya and the United Nations have issued a joint appeal for assistance to contain the famine. We are grateful for the prompt support of the World Food Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and bilateral donors. However, the need for more assistance still exists. To achieve long-term economic stability and development, the Government of Kenya has embarked on an economic recovery strategy for wealth and employment creation, aimed at revitalizing the economy and enhancing the welfare of our people. Other measures have been taken to improve the well- being of the Kenyan people. Those include the improvement and promotion of the welfare of children through free and compulsory primary education and the recognition of the central role played by women in development. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the important role the United Nations plays in global affairs. It could be greatly enhanced through adherence to the provisions of the Charter and to the rule of law. Member States should respect those instruments in the conduct of their international relations.On 10 June 2004, you, Mr. President, were elected to serve as President of the General Assembly. As you begin your term of office, I have the great pleasure of conveying to you the warm and fraternal congratulations of the people of Cameroon — brother, neighbour and friend of your country, Gabon — as well as from Cameroon’s Government and its President, Mr. Paul Biya. Your election crowns an outstanding career and is a tribute to Gabon’s diplomacy under the wise guidance of President El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba. Cameroon would also like to congratulate the other members of the Bureau of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We would like to reiterate our full cooperation to you, Mr. President, and to say that we are at your disposal. In addition, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for the important work he accomplished with the tireless support of the Bureau, including in particular with regard to our common endeavour to reform the Organization and enhance its effectiveness by, among other things, reviewing the General Assembly’s methods of work. The waning year has strengthened our common resolve to strengthen multilateralism and to give it prominence in the management of international affairs in the new international order, with the United Nations as the foundation and framework of that order. Despite the ups and downs that the United Nations has experienced, in particular in the Security Council, it is time for there to be an active dialogue among the world’s nations, all of which adhere to the universality of the Organization and its unique and irreplaceable role in promoting economic and social development and international peace and security. The world of course faces numerous challenges, some of which are new in nature. Others, however, although older and better known, remain without real solutions — either due to their complexity or because of a lack of determination on the part of the international community to mobilize ways and means commensurate with the stakes. In January 2005, the General Assembly will receive a report from the Panel of eminent persons appointed by the Secretary-General to reflect on reforms that could make the Organization more effective, transparent and democratic, as well as better able to carry out its mission and tackle the new challenges requiring our attention. I trust that the Panel will not fail to rely upon previous relevant proposals when framing its recommendations, in particular those made at the Millennium Summit. As far as Cameroon is concerned, mankind must be at the heart of any substantive reform of the United Nations. My country continues to promote the proposal put forth here in New York during the Millennium Summit by President Paul Biya. That proposal called for the creation within the Secretariat of an 28 international ethics-monitoring centre entrusted with the task of “promoting fundamental and universal human values between and within nations”. (A/55/PV.5, p. 27) In addition, it also seems that the time has come for the General Assembly to express its views on the issue of Security Council reform, and in particular with regard to expanding its membership. The proposals that have been introduced in the General Assembly are undoubtedly a very good basis for discussion. The Assembly will recall that the Organization of African Unity called for a reconstituted Security Council that included seven seats for Africa, including 2 permanent seats. That proposal, which Cameroon fully endorses, still stands. Nevertheless, we must forge concrete consensus without delay, as an indicator of greater transparency and renewed legitimacy of a Security Council that is more effective and credible. Standing side-by-side with other nations, Cameroon is resolutely committed to eradicating new threats that seriously imperil international peace and security. We unreservedly condemn international terrorism and all forms of fundamentalism and extremism, which provide it with both a breeding ground and a vehicle. It is for that reason that we reiterate our solidarity with all those who have fallen victim to terrorism, most recently in Russia and the Middle East. The efforts undertaken by the Security Council in that regard are encouraging. However, we believe that the time has come for worldwide globalization and the summit level. It is time to act together against the terrorist hydra. Cameroon once again suggests that a high-level conference be urgently convened to define collectively more effective strategies to combat terrorism. The new threats confronting the world are real challenges, and it is only right that they be given certain priority. That approach will be quite appropriate as the Organization’s other traditional concerns continue to enjoy our full attention. Cameroon believes that nothing can justify terrorism. Nevertheless, the response to terrorism and to other new threats cannot be solely a military response. The modern world must focus on the causes of violence and on the injustices that undermine international peace. Resolving regional conflicts in Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere; combating poverty and mobilizing against great epidemics, and against HIV/AIDS in particular; redressing the imbalance in world trade in goods and services; and addressing the foreign debt of poor countries — like the new threats, all these challenges require the Organization’s attention. I mention this parallel because we run a real risk, today, of getting used to the endemic poverty that kills thousands every day, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Solidarity with the poor must become a very concrete reality rather than mere lip service. In order to combat hunger and poverty, we need massive private and public financing. We need relief from the burden of debt. The world today is faced with a paradox. The poorest countries are the ones that have the most open and liberal economies. Even their non-commercial sector has been privatized, causing unemployment for millions of citizens and the destabilization of basic social sectors, such as water and electricity, for many years, with harmful consequences for all economic activity. The current economic order, if we are not careful, could consolidate — and indeed make permanent — current relations based on force, to the benefit of rich countries and to the detriment of poor countries. The rich can easily subsidize their agriculture, their industry and their airlines, among other sectors. The poor countries, however, under the watchful eyes of financial institutions in which their voices go unheard, must submit themselves to the law of the market. Cotton from West and Central Africa is a perfect example of unbalanced and unfair globalization. We should not become discouraged, however, and Cameroon is convinced that under your presidency, Sir, the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly will adopt strong initiatives to help poor countries and to ensure a readjustment of globalization, making it more equitable and beneficial to all. International economic relations must be profoundly reformed with a view to ensuring greater United Nations involvement. The same issues that apply to the economy also apply to the subject of health. The world, viewed in its entirety, is rich. It has the means of providing adequate health for all. Medicines exist that should make it possible to contain the major pandemics. Research scientists and the pharmaceutical industry are making great strides on a daily basis in combating malaria, tuberculosis, meningitis and cholera, among other diseases. Those scourges, however, kill millions of Africans every year. The reason for this is poverty and insufficient means to obtain care and medicines. 29 With regard to HIV/AIDS, which is far more terrible since it is thus far incurable, we welcome the fact that scientific research today is making it possible to drastically diminish its devastating scope. The Bangkok International AIDS Conference has certainly given reason for hope. Significant pledges to help eradicate this scourge are announced on a daily basis. Unfortunately, most of the persons infected by the HIV virus are unable to obtain anti-retroviral medications since they lack the necessary financial means. Combating AIDS is a worldwide cause, rallying us all. I have touched upon regional conflicts. Their negative impact on the international environment, whether politically, economically or in humanitarian and security terms, requires no further demonstration. Africa, as if not already handicapped enough, is the continent most plagued by conflict, as evidenced by the Security Council agenda. The situation in some countries gives rise to relative optimism. Developments in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea-Bissau and the Comoros give us reasons for hope. Recent firm commitments by political actors in the crisis in Côte d’Ivoire doubtless give rise to better prospects for that fraternal, friendly country. In Central Africa, despite some improvement, the situation remains worrisome. It calls for constant vigilance and increased involvement on all levels by the international community. In this respect, the international conference on the Great Lakes region, which has been announced several times but has always been deferred, must finally be held as scheduled in November 2004. That will make it possible to lay a fresh foundation for constructive cooperation among the countries of the region, consistent with the interests of their respective peoples. Still with regard to Central Africa, it is our hope that, at this session, the debate on cooperation between the United Nations and the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS) will address the concerns expressed by our subregion’s heads of State to the Secretary-General’s multidisciplinary assessment mission to Central Africa. I recall here that the heads of State had unanimously and firmly expressed a desire for a political presence by the Secretary-General in Central Africa through a permanent subregional structure. We take note of the statement made here in this connection by the delegation of the Republic of the Congo, as Chairman of ECCAS. The crisis in Darfur is currently a matter of grave concern on our continent. Wishing to prevent a catastrophe such as has occurred in the past, the African Union has squarely embraced this question with the decisive support of the Security Council and other international partners. We all hope a positive solution will be reached quickly. In order to do this, dialogue must be ongoing, forward-looking and voluntary on the part of all protagonists in the crisis. To be sure, the political will and determination of the Sudanese authorities are key; they must continue to display these qualities. That is the only way that an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe will be avoided. In any case, the international community must be further mobilized behind the African Union in order to ward off this curse and avert this major crisis without delay. My country is profoundly devoted to peace. It will spare no effort to promote the peaceful settlement of disputes. In that connection, it will continue to promote peace throughout the world, and specifically in Africa, in Central Africa and in the Gulf of Guinea. As members know, the International Court of Justice in The Hague, after lengthy deliberations lasting almost 10 years, handed down its judgment, on 10 October 2002, relating to the boundary dispute between Cameroon and Nigeria. Both countries, within the context of the Joint Commission established by the Secretary-General and chaired by his Special Representative, have agreed to define the ways and means of implementing that judgment and have adopted a programme of work with a specific timetable, approved on 31 January 2004 by their heads of State and the Secretary-General. The Secretary- General has eloquently reported on the progress that has been made in this connection. We call upon the United Nations family to give its full support to the Secretary-General and to use its influence to help Nigeria and Cameroon in implementing the judgment of the International Court of Justice. Whether it be the reform of our Organization to make it more efficient, democratic and legitimate; or the Middle East peace process to re-launch the road map; or pacification, reconstruction, enhanced security and institution-building in Iraq and Afghanistan; or the settlement of African disputes and the post-conflict reconstruction of such countries; or combating AIDS and other pandemics; or adjusting financial and trade mechanisms to help the weakest and most exposed countries; or, finally, eliminating poverty: Mr. President, our dear brother, we think that you have a full plate. Quite fortunately, your great qualities will 30 allow you to involve the international community in working on these problems. Moreover, you have at your side the Secretary- General of our Organization, Mr. Kofi Annan, Nobel Peace Prize laureate, whose actions and commitments to promote peace, security and development today serve as both a lever and an engine for the activities undertaken by the international community as a whole. You also have at your side, I am sure, the entirety of the United Nations membership. Cameroon, for its part, will spare no effort to support you in your lofty mission.Belgium’s international commitment is rooted in the conviction that initiatives taken at the global level can move forward only through dialogue and cooperation. The careful European building process taught us that. That is why Belgium firmly believes in the virtues of multilateralism. We are stronger standing together than alone. By standing together, we benefit from greater legitimacy and therefore have better opportunities to make our voices heard. The challenges facing the United Nations have the virtue of being clear. As the Secretary-General has said, the options that become available to the world will depend on the answers that we provide. The Organization’s credibility will continue to be judged by its effectiveness and its results on the ground. We must improve and strengthen the United Nations apparatus. We fully support the Secretary-General’s efforts in this difficult task. At the same time, we believe that the United Nations system should better reflect the new international realities. The sustained commitment of the United Nations is required if we are to find a definitive solution to the 42 crisis in the Great Lakes region. The conflict there has already cost millions of lives. We must not fail to respond; inaction would constitute negligence. While I do not underestimate the difficulties in this regard, I am convinced that a solution can be found. I refuse to believe, therefore, that the stabilization process is doomed to deadlock or failure. In order to find a solution, however, the international community must show that it can make a difference. In that regard, it is encouraging to note how dedicated the Secretary- General is to his mission. For its part, Belgium will continue to appeal to its European Union partners for a collective and committed involvement in the region. It is essential that stability and security be fully established and guaranteed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is clear that the transition process must be successful. We in the international community cannot emphasize enough that political leaders have the duty to make it succeed. Indeed, there is no alternative to that process as a means of achieving peace and development in the region. Nation-building is impossible as long as impunity and insecurity exist. In that respect, the restructuring and the integration of the army are essential, as is the demobilization and reintegration of former combatants. Belgium is currently training almost 300 Congolese soldiers under its Train the Trainers programme. It is also essential that the International Committee to Accompany the Transition fully shoulder its responsibilities. For its part, Belgium is committed to taking an active part in the implementation of the declaration adopted by the countries members of that Committee. The United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) is playing a crucial role, and Belgium attaches great importance to that. It is not only the credibility of the United Nations that is at stake here, but — more important — the future of an entire region. Belgium therefore supports a better targeted mandate for MONUC, as well as a strengthening of its means. With our European partners, we are also considering the best way of making a joint contribution to that Mission. It goes without saying that the elections scheduled for 2005 will be crucial. They will require substantial human and financial means, to which Belgium has already decided it will contribute. With regard to the situation in Rwanda, we offer our full support to the praiseworthy efforts made to achieve reconciliation. Normalized relations between Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo are absolutely indispensable and must be based on collaboration and good-neighbourly relations. This implies a mutual respect of the borders. In many regards, the latest developments in Burundi are encouraging. A constitution has been adopted, a referendum has been announced and an electoral commission is in place. Elections are essential, of course, which is why Belgium has provided significant financial backing to their organization. I urge the international community to specify without delay what resources it is ready to mobilize for this purpose. Belgium shares the concerns about the humanitarian crisis in Darfur. There is no excuse for the persecution and systematic massacre of thousands of human beings. Given the scale of the suffering, the efforts and the progress made thus far remain insufficient. Belgium therefore insists on the swift establishment of an international commission of inquiry. The situation in Iraq will continue to present a considerable challenge over the coming months and even years. I congratulate the United Nations for its continued support to the Iraqi transition process, especially given the country’s climate of insecurity. The population of Iraq, which has already faced so many ordeals, must finally be able to live in peace. It is, of course, the Iraqi people who must shoulder the responsibility of guiding the political process, a process that must lead to the creation of a new parliament, a new constitution and a sovereign Government. This Government must be capable of ensuring the well-being of its citizens, as well as the country’s security, with no external assistance. To date, Belgium has allocated approximately €17 million to the reconstruction process and we will provide air transportation for the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) personnel between Amman and Baghdad. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses a serious threat to world security. The regime of non-proliferation is jeopardized by an alarming situation; the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea must regain its place within this regime without delay. 43 The Islamic Republic of Iran is located in a region full of tensions, and its security concerns are legitimate. The international community should therefore take this into account in its approach to the problem. And the Iranian authorities must cooperate entirely with the International Atomic Energy Agency and cease all activities linked to the enrichment of uranium. By so doing, Iran will contribute significantly to the stabilization and prosperity of the region. The tragedy in Beslan has proved once again that terrorism attacks blindly. It goes without saying that no form of terrorism is justifiable. The indignation and analysis that such acts may provoke can in no way vary according to the victim, the location, the aggressor or the circumstances. Appropriate military means and security measures will remain necessary in order to fight terrorism, but means other than strictly military ones are also required. Indeed, the environment in which terrorism thrives is comprised of ideological, socio-economic, political and other variables. This is why I plead for a dialogue between the West and the Arab and Muslim world, involving not only political leaders but also spiritual leaders, and not as a mere exchange of ideas or points of view, but in order to identify the instruments that could deny such barbarous acts all legitimacy and raison d’être, with a view to finally bringing this appalling logic of death to a halt.On behalf of the Government and people of Nigeria, and in my capacity as the current Chairman of the African Union (AU), I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I assure you of the support and cooperation of Africa, of which 10 you are an illustrious son. I would also like to express appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency The Right Honourable Julian R. Hunte, Minister for External Affairs of Saint Lucia, for the dedication and skill with which he presided over the affairs of the fifty-eighth session. I commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his effective leadership and for his efforts to maintain the status of the United Nations in the face of enormous global challenges. Nigeria remains unshakeable in its commitment to and support for the strengthening of the United Nations and the protection of its cherished ideals, in particular the maintenance of international peace and security and cooperation among States to resolve international economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems. The problem posed by the unremitting conflicts in various regions of the world and the increasingly difficult task of finding solutions to them continue to pose serious challenges to the world body. Nigeria and the African Union (AU) commend the United Nations for its determined engagement in crisis resolution and peacekeeping, particularly in Africa. We have noted with appreciation the changes in the concept of peacekeeping. Nevertheless, we believe that some improvements are still necessary to enable United Nations peace operations to address the social and economic challenges that inevitably confront countries emerging from conflict. Those socio- economic issues invariably form an important part of the original causes of the conflict. We also appeal for continued enhancement of the capacity of regional organizations to undertake initiatives on crisis resolution in their respective regions. For its part, the African Union has worked to improve its Mechanism for Conflict Resolution, and in May this year established a Peace and Security Council. The first challenge the AU Peace and Security Council has faced has been the situation in the Darfur region of western Sudan, which aroused world attention because of the reported carnage there. On behalf of the AU, I want to thank the international community for the humanitarian intervention being undertaken. As is well known, the AU has deployed troops to the region to monitor a ceasefire between the Government of the Sudan and the opposing movements — the Sudan Liberation Movement/Army and the Justice and Equality Movement. Moreover, the first substantive peace talks took place under the auspices of the AU in the Nigerian capital of Abuja from 23 August to 18 September 2004. At that meeting, the Sudanese parties reached agreement on the first of the four points on the agenda, namely, humanitarian issues. They also made progress on the second point, security issues, before adjourning for consultations. A follow-up meeting is expected to be convened in Abuja around 21 October 2004 on the other issues: political and economic and social issues. I am closely following the developments, in consultation with the Chairperson of the Commission of the African Union and others, and I now call upon the international community to continue to lend us its support in resolving the Darfur conflict and its consequences. It is cheering to note the progress being made in Somalia, particularly in constituting the Parliament. The efforts of the regional countries, which are demonstrating unprecedented collaboration in helping the Somalis to move the process forward, should be applauded. The Somalis themselves must continue to demonstrate their commitment to repair past errors and to make their country a respectable member of the AU and the United Nations. The Great Lakes region remains a flash point of violence, as exemplified by the recent massacre of more than 150 persons in a refugee camp in Burundi. On 25 June 2004, President Kabila of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and President Kagame of Rwanda met in Abuja at my invitation and agreed to activate the Joint Verification Mechanism. Thereafter, with the participation of the Secretary-General, a meeting of all stakeholders was held during the third African Union Summit, held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, from 6 to 8 July 2004, in order to accelerate the activation of the Joint Verification Mechanism. I am hopeful that this renewed process will facilitate a better understanding of how to stem the spate of massacres and engender a peaceful resolution of the protracted crisis in the Great Lakes region. With regard to the West African subregion, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are continuing their efforts, with the constant support of the United Nations, to ensure steady progress in the peace processes in Côte d’Ivoire and Liberia. To that end, and in order to address the standstill in the implementation of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement on Côte d’Ivoire, an extraordinary summit was held under ECOWAS auspices in Accra, Ghana, on 29 July 2004. The 11 meeting benefited from the presence of Secretary- General Kofi Annan and some non-ECOWAS African heads of State. If the agreements reached at that summit are faithfully implemented, an end to the conflict should be in sight. In the margins of the Accra summit, we also addressed problems that were retarding the implementation of the Liberian Comprehensive Peace Agreement. In discussions with all the Liberian leaders, we agreed decisions on the main issues, and we have since witnessed encouraging signs that those decisions are being implemented. Here, I should like to remark once again that the delay in providing the resources promised by countries during the Liberian pledging conference held at United Nations Headquarters in February 2004 constitutes an avoidable hindrance to the advancement of peace in Liberia. I therefore call on all our well-meaning partners who were kind enough to make pledges to kindly redeem them. While the United Nations is justifiably seized of the issue of weapons of mass destruction — such as nuclear, chemical and biological weapons — the question of small arms and light weapons can no longer be ignored. While the threat of weapons of mass destruction is awesome, small arms and light weapons are killing people every day at a rate that, cumulatively, amounts to monumental destruction. Nigeria and the African Union welcome the commencement of negotiations on a legally binding international instrument to enable States to identify and trace illicit small arms and light weapons globally. Of particular interest to Africa is the enormous potential that such a legally binding instrument can have on peace and security in our region. We should therefore not relent in our efforts. Let me take this opportunity to soundly condemn the totally unacceptable role of mercenaries and their sponsors in Africa. The recent attempted invasion of Equatorial Guinea and other such attempts go against every imaginable rational effort at promoting stability and democracy on the continent. We call on the United Nations to join the African Union in sending the right signals of condemnation to those mercenaries and their sponsors. Our quest for global peace and security will prove unsuccessful unless we intensify international cooperation for development and the reduction of poverty. Just four years ago, we adopted the Millennium Development Goals, which pointedly fixed the target of reducing by half the number of those living in poverty by 2015. Yet by now, the alarm is being raised that, if present trends continue, that target may not be met, particularly in Africa, which aside from the challenges of development, is also being ravaged by pandemic diseases. Speaking on behalf of the African Union as its current Chairperson, I should like to assure the General Assembly that we Africans are determined to exert all our efforts to overcome those obstacles to development that are within our control. To that end, we are pursuing, with the personal commitment and involvement of our heads of State and Government themselves, the implementation of the priorities set out in our flagship programme, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). In that context, we appreciate the conclusion in the Secretary-General’s second consolidated report on progress in implementation and international support for NEPAD that “African countries have demonstrated their commitment to advancing the implementation of NEPAD by earmarking financial allocations to selected sectoral priorities.” (A/59/206, para. 67) The report also concludes that “The development partners of Africa can give further practical expression to their support for the efforts of African countries by taking action in three important areas: first, by creating an enabling international environment that is supportive of growth and development in Africa; second, by bringing much needed coherence to trade, aid and debt policies, so that African countries are the net beneficiaries of international actions in those areas; and third, by undertaking concrete measures to accelerate the implementation of NEPAD by making significant financial outlays to fund the key sectoral priorities of NEPAD.” (ibid., para. 68) I believe that the message to our development partners is very clear. To demonstrate our commitment to the principles of good governance, transparency and the rule of law, 23 African countries have already subscribed to the African Peer Review Mechanism. It should be recalled that the Mechanism represents 12 Africa’s voluntary commitment to a set of performance codes and standards to foster best practices and share lessons in the management of national affairs. The promotion of agriculture is being vigorously pursued both for its export potential and for poverty alleviation. Encouraging growth rates in agricultural production are already being recorded in several African countries. Simultaneously, we are intensifying our efforts in the promotion of agro-based industries. To further our efforts at self-help, the heads of State and Government of the African Union held the Extraordinary Summit on Employment and Poverty Alleviation in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, from 5 to 9 September 2004. We adopted a far-reaching declaration and programme of action. We also adopted mechanisms for implementation and monitoring at the national, regional and continental levels. What may act as an obstacle to implementation in this most important area for lifting the African population out of poverty and misery is the inevitable issue of having adequate resources for meeting our otherwise realistic goals. On behalf of the African Union, I appeal to our partners to act once again in the interest of our shared, common global interdependence and common humanity. Africa requires a genuine partnership anchored on the principle of mutual benefits to ensure the attainment of sustainable development. One area of partnership concerns Africa’s external debts. The negative impact of debt on the economic situation of African countries, particularly the least developed countries, can no longer be denied. We remain convinced that comprehensively resolving the lingering debt crisis through innovative action would brighten the prospects of development in Africa. Africa welcomes the consensus that emerged from the recent meeting of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in São Paulo, Brazil. That consensus reflects a shared conviction that the Organization can continue to coordinate our views on trade and development matters. This cannot be otherwise if the Millennium Development Goals are to be achieved and the benefits of expanding trade are to be enjoyed by all peoples and societies. By launching a new initiative to commence a new round of multilateral trade negotiations, developing countries have issued a challenge to our development partners to exploit global opportunities for growth and development. We hope they will respond. Africa remains committed to the fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria, tuberculosis and related diseases. Since the last series of high-level plenary meetings on implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, we have taken bold steps to deal with the pandemic. Towards that end, we in Nigeria have established a national scientific institute for research on HIV/AIDS and intensified public awareness programmes. In that connection, we welcome the outcome of the recent International Conference on HIV/AIDS in Bangkok, Thailand. We thank the United Nations agencies and all stakeholders for their collective efforts to stem the spread of the disease worldwide. With regard to other deadly preventable diseases, such as malaria, tuberculosis, polio and whooping cough, my Government has stepped up its efforts. In a few days, on 2 October 2004, my Government will once again embark on a polio immunization programme, in coordination with six African States — Chad, the Sudan, Cameroon, Niger, Burkina Faso and Côte d’Ivoire — to ensure maximum effectiveness. These are countries where polio has been reported fairly recently. Significantly and symbolically, the programme’s launch, with all my brothers and colleagues present, will take place in Kano. Last year, the Secretary-General launched a United Nations reform initiative that we all warmly commended. In pursuit of that initiative, the Secretary- General appointed last year a high-level Panel of Eminent Personalities to examine ways of strengthening the United Nations through institutional reforms and processes. We are looking forward to the report of the Panel. Nigeria — and indeed the rest of Africa — holds the view that the Security Council should be expanded in its permanent and non-permanent categories to make it more representative, more effective and more acceptable. We hope that those regions of the world that are not currently represented in the permanent membership category will be given membership. Africa, whose issues occupy a substantial part of the Security Council’s time, ought to be accorded priority consideration for permanent membership, and Nigeria, I strongly believe, is a well-qualified candidate.More than ever, Africa is making headlines in the international community. Unfortunately, it is more about crises, wars and problems of failing States that are attracting the worldís attention. Yet, some positive aspects do exist. African countries are resolutely taking their destiny into their own hands. Good governance is no longer an empty word. Democracies are developing and taking root. The fight against corruption is seriously under way. In many States on the continent, there is a strong willingness for peace, security and stability, as well as better conditions for development. African countries are deciding to unite in order to strengthen their abilities. The African Union, the New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD), the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, the Southern African Economic Community, as well as other organizations, are becoming more and more efficient in resolving conflicts on the African continent. They are gradually gaining the respect of their partners from Europe, America and Asia. For its part, Madagascar has successfully undertaken major reforms in order to ensure stable democracy and good governance, to establish a trustful policy, to protect freedom of the press, to decentralize and evolve the administrationís functions and responsibilities and, lastly, to encourage international investment. Madagascar is seeking to play an active and efficient role in African and international organizations. We strongly support the strengthening of the United Nations. We endorse the enlargement of the membership of the Security Council in order to have a better balance between developed and developing countries. It is high time for Africa to obtain a permanent seat, and this is also the case for Germany, Brazil, India and Japan, which are major contributors to the United Nations. Madagascar supports any effort to promote peace, democracy and the rule of law in Africa. We are devoted to good governance, respect for human rights and the fight against terrorism in Madagascar and elsewhere in Africa. Recent examples attest to our firm political will, including Madagascarís strong support for the declaration for free elections, signed in Port Louis; its participation in the Moroni Agreement to re- establish peace in the Comoros; and its signing of the agreement on human rights in Geneva. Madagascar has made great progress, which has been recognized by international institutions and the major Powers. Economic and political development has become a reality in our country. However, we are also threatened by natural disasters, such as cyclones, as 10 well as by the rise in oil prices, by the debt burden and by the lack of access to the markets of industrialized countries. We are concerned by the slow implementation of the Brussels Programme of Action adopted by the international community in 2001. We need more foreign investment on our continent, both in the public and private sector. I urge the Assembly to assume more responsibility for a just and fair world and urge Members to assume more responsibility for Africa. Africa is ready to take its destiny into its own hands. We are aware of our own responsibilities; however, we must share them. The globalization of the economy must go hand in hand with the globalization of responsibilities. We know of success stories relating to this kind of responsibility. Nevertheless, we have experienced some cases, mainly in Africa, where the world has failed in its responsibilities with resulting tragic repercussions. Let us look at the African continent. Do not forget the catastrophes of the past nor overlook the catastrophes of the present. But, above all, consider the potential of our future. How will Africa look in 10 or 20 years? Can we imagine this? Africa can become a flourishing continent; it has enormous potential, which may be the source of prosperity for both Africans and the world. First of all, it has human potential. More than half of the African people are under the age of 25. Todayís young Africans are more open and more dynamic. They can narrow the gap between the past and the challenges of today. They deserve a better education and professional training that is suited to the needs of the market. Education-for- all programmes are vital. Investing in education is more profitable than any other investment in poverty reduction. Africanís destiny will depend on the education of our young people. Women in Madagascar are sometimes more persistent than men. They deserve more than their traditional role within the family. Let us give them the chance to fulfil themselves, to enjoy the same rights as men. All of us will benefit from their wisdom and dedication. I would now like to speak about agricultural potential. In Madagascar, more than half of the arable land is still unexploited. We can double or triple the productivity rate. Let us help farmers to organize themselves, to use better seeds and modern irrigation systems and to obtain easier access to fertilizers. Let us set up infrastructures to develop markets. Let us simplify land registration. Let us institute appropriate financial systems to encourage farmers to become entrepreneurs. Let us set up infrastructure and systems for the processing of natural products. Let us build food processing units and undertake related activities. Let us extend the food chain. Let us develop food processing networks in rural areas. The green revolution that the Secretary-General spoke about recently is not a dream. Next, I wish to speak about economic potential. Development at the base, sustained by international investment, will generate high economic growth. Madagascar experienced economic growth of 9.6 per cent in 2003, and we hope to achieve the same performance in 2004 and 2005. This is also possible for other African countries. With such a high economic growth rate and more than 900 million consumers, the African market will become increasingly worthwhile. As to energy, we are all aware of the fact that the world energy situation is critical and affects not just our economies but our ecology as well. What potential exists in Africa? Half of the African countries, like Madagascar, could produce an abundant supply of hydraulic energy; only 7 per cent of this potential is exploited; only 1 per cent of the worldís solar energy comes from Africa. Let us conclude an agreement on energy development in Africa. The potential lies in reforestation and in the Kyoto process. Then, there is ecological potential. In addition to the energy and the climate, we can share the values of our nature with the world. Seventy per cent of Madagascarís plants and fauna are endemic. At present, we cannot truly assess the extent to which they will be of benefit for medicine, as well as in other fields. With all this potential, the development of Africa is in the interest of the great Powers. Their leaders should know what African development can offer to world prosperity, peace and security. Africa is a continent of the future. Africa can become a flourishing continent. Let us seek a common vision and find new approaches to develop Africa. Africa is ready for a new future. We Africans are ready to resolve armed conflicts. We are ready to win the war against poverty and other diseases. We are ready for enhanced democracy and good governance. 11 We are ready to work and cooperate closely for peace, stability and security. We are ready for an open market system. We are ready to strengthen our abilities. We are ready for competition. We are ready for new leadership. We are ready for a new Africa. That is why we ask for international rules that are acceptable to and accepted by all countries, be they large or small. We are asking for mutual respect. We are asking for closer cooperation. We are asking for a comprehensive plan for the development of Africa. We are asking for a ìMarshall Planî for Africa: a plan that should be based on the NEPAD objectives; a plan that includes the Evian Summit objectives and measures, adopted by the Group of Eight, but that goes even further; a plan that is more than just an emergency measure; an appropriate plan that promotes all the assets - the entire potential - of Africa. Let us act at once and without delay to implement it. Let us promote the potential of Africa. The impact for African people and for the international community will be enormous.Allow me at the outset to join previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its current session. In light of the restraints on our time, I shall omit several acknowledgements and tributes that I should have liked to make and delve directly into matters of vital importance to my country, to the region of the Horn of Africa and, by extension, to all Member States of our global community. My Government, of course, recognizes and is grateful for the vital contributions of the international community, including the United Nations, to promote peace in the aftermath of the war that Ethiopia declared against my country, using a place called Badme as a pretext for invasion. The Algiers Peace Agreement, signed by the two parties in December 2000, was drafted and brokered by the United States, the European Union, the African Union and Algeria, among others. Furthermore, the international community has spent more than $700 million to date to maintain the peacekeeping force. More than 37 countries have contributed military personnel, which are involved in UNMEE in various capacities. We are indeed grateful for those contributions. But, while we applaud those valuable contributions, we are duty-bound to express, with equal candour, our regret and dismay at the lack of resolute action by the international community at this critical time, when the entire process is on the brink of collapse. Had the international community respected its obligations and seen the process through with the requisite seriousness, the border would have been demarcated long ago. Today could have been an auspicious moment for our peoples to celebrate, from this rostrum, the resounding success of the United Nations peacekeeping effort. Instead, the dark clouds of war are once again gathering over my country because of Ethiopia’s intransigence and the acquiescence of major Powers as concerns Ethiopia’s violations of international law. Allow me to recall some of the most salient tenets of the Algiers Peace Agreement (A/55/686, annex). First, regarding the establishment and powers of the Arbitration Commission, article 4.2 of the Agreement states: “The parties agree that a neutral Boundary Commission composed of five members shall be established with a mandate to delimit and demarcate the colonial treaty boundary based on pertinent colonial treaties (1900, 1902 and 1908) and applicable international law. The Commission shall not have the power to make decisions ex aequo et bono.” Secondly, as concerns the final and binding nature of the decision, article 4.15 states: 11 “The parties agree that the delimitation and demarcation determinations of the Commission shall be final and binding. Each party shall respect the border so determined, as well as the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the other party.” Thirdly, regarding punitive measures that should be taken against the violating party, paragraph 14 of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement (S/2000/601, annex) states: “[The] OAU and the United Nations commit themselves to guarantee the respect for this commitment of the two parties until the determination of the common border … This guarantee shall be comprised of a) Measures to be taken by the international community should one or both of the parties violate this commitment, including appropriate measures to be taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations by the United Nations Security Council.” It has been more than two years now since the Boundary Commission announced its decision on the basis of the Algiers Peace Agreement. That legal decision was reached after 15 months of litigation, following the exchange of numerous memorandums and a two-week verbal hearing. The decision is final and binding in accordance with the aforementioned Peace Agreement. Furthermore, the decision is based on the fundamental African principle of the inviolability of inherited colonial boundaries, which are not of our making but which we can only respect unless we wish to open the Pandora’s box of an endless cycle of bloody border conflicts. My Government has accepted in good faith the Boundary Commission’s decision, not because it has won in the litigation, but because we firmly believe that the only way to secure an enduring peace is through respect of the rule of law and the integrity of the arbitration decision. That is why my Government has been cooperating, and continues to cooperate, fully and unreservedly with the Boundary Commission in all its delimitation decisions and demarcation instructions. Ethiopia, on the other hand, has categorically rejected the decision of the Boundary Commission. In a letter to the Security Council on 19 September last year, the Ethiopian Prime Minister declared that the work of the Commission was “in terminal crisis”. The Prime Minister dismissed the decision of the Boundary Commission as totally illegal, unjust and irresponsible, and requested the Security Council to set up an alternative mechanism to demarcate the contested parts of the boundary. Ethiopia, of course, has no reason whatsoever to reject the Boundary Commission decision. Apart from its treaty obligations, the fact is that Ethiopia has won, by its own admission, extra territories that never belonged to it. Those were the words of the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2002, when the Boundary Commission announced its decision. Ethiopia’s belated and calculated rejection of the decision was an afterthought. It was tentative and cautious at first, but gained boldness and audacity when it realized that it could do so with impunity. The Prime Minister’s letter informing the Security Council that Ethiopia totally rejected the decision of the Boundary Commission was written 16 full months after the decision was rendered. In a sense, Ethiopia’s rejection has more to do with the conduct of the international community rather than any intrinsic problem of the decision itself. Critical and encouraging factors in Ethiopia’s rejection were the sympathetic dispositions towards it and the “winks and nods” of certain countries and some foreign missions in Ethiopia. Ethiopia’s current arguments and excuses on the need to factor in human and physical geography and bogus concerns as to population dislocation or separation of villages and homes are so fallacious as to not even merit discussion. The legal basis for delimiting the boundary is unequivocal, and Ethiopia cannot inject new elements after the fact. Furthermore, boundaries in Africa, and for that matter elsewhere in the world, are not always carved out of natural rivers and ravines to exclude contiguous villages lying on either side of the boundary between two countries. In the case of the Eritrea-Ethiopia boundary, in 1998 Ethiopia expelled 14,500 Eritreans who had inhabited 39 villages on the eastern part of the Badme line since the 1920s. Those people have spent the last several years in makeshift camps in western Eritrea. An additional 58,000 Eritreans remain displaced because Ethiopia continues to occupy our sovereign 12 territories. All in all, more than 90,000 Eritreans, and Ethiopians of Eritrean origin, were expelled from Ethiopia in 1998 because the Ethiopian Prime Minister declared that “Ethiopia has every right to expel any foreign citizen if it does not like the colour of their eyes”. How can Ethiopia now invoke the possible dislocation of a few thousand settlers to prevent demarcation of the boundary and jeopardize regional peace? In spite of Ethiopia’s violations of the Peace Agreements, major Powers within the international community have not taken critical steps to persuade Ethiopia to uphold the rule of law and abide by its treaty obligations. On the contrary, Ethiopia is continuing to obtain massive humanitarian, economic and military support from major Powers. Full-fledged economic sanctions may not have been necessary, but the debt cancellation, budgetary support and other substantial injections of economic and humanitarian assistance extended to Ethiopia have not been linked to a positive performance in the peace process. As far as Eritrea is concerned, therefore, the problem is not Ethiopia’s bad-faith conduct in the border dispute, but international silence and acquiescence with regard to its violations, which has, in turn, encouraged its intransigence. It is regrettable that the United Nations Secretariat and some Powers have introduced — and continue to dwell on — tangential issues, instead of taking concrete action to push the peace process forward. Such notions are not only extraneous to the Algiers Peace Agreement, but, if they were to become operational, would actually subvert and derail the peace process and significantly contribute to tension and conflict. Here, I am referring to the related issues of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General and the “dialogue” to renegotiate the final and binding decision of the Boundary Commission. I would like to stress that the appointment of the Special Envoy occurred only a few weeks after Ethiopia had formally and officially rejected the Boundary Commission decision requesting the Security Council to create a new mechanism. While my Government did not see any benefit or rationale for that course of action, it did not reject the proposal outright. We sought unambiguous clarifications with regard to the mandate and functions of the Special Envoy through various communications, emphasizing that we could not possibly contemplate renegotiation of the decision in any form. Unfortunately, our efforts did not bear fruit, and the lack of clarity of the responses we received only reinforced our original suspicions. My Government has therefore informed the Secretary- General that it considers that the issue of the Special Envoy — which has eclipsed the key issue for almost a year now — to be a closed chapter and appealed to the Secretary-General to refocus international attention on Ethiopia’s violations of the Algiers Peace Agreement and the rule of law. In the same vein, the issue of bilateral dialogue with Ethiopia should be viewed and can be understood only in its proper perspective. Eritrea has no problem with the idea of fully normalizing its relations with Ethiopia and reviving good-neighbourly relations. We are neighbours, destined to live together and in harmony. But we cannot possibly put the cart before the horse and discuss economic or security issues, or other issues relating to cooperation, while Ethiopia is forcibly occupying our land in blatant breach of the Algiers Peace Agreement and the decision of the Boundary Commission. Indeed, Eritrea will not need the good offices of an intermediary in order to resume normal bilateral ties with Ethiopia once the critical border issue is resolved legally and peacefully. I must stress that the border issue cannot be the subject of sterile dialogue such as that sought by Ethiopia. That is legally untenable and practically impossible. The cost of inaction by the international community to regional peace and stability will be enormous, and my Government sincerely hopes that the indifference that we have witnessed over the past two years will be rectified in time. Eritrea has shown maximum patience and restraint, even though its sovereign territories remain occupied by force. But patience has a limit — particularly given that the humanitarian burden is of great importance and that the situation in that regard has been unsustainable for a long time. Indeed, over 60,000 of our citizens continue to live in makeshift camps, unable to return to their home villages. In his address to the General Assembly on 21 September 2004, the Secretary-General made a passionate appeal for respect for the rule of law at home and abroad. The people and the Government of Eritrea would like to thank him for that statement, which they subscribe to in its entirety and endorse without reservation. Eritreans continue to be victims of the violation of the rule of law as a result of Ethiopia’s 13 rejection, with impunity, of the final and binding decision of an arbitration commission sanctioned by the United Nations and other organizations, as well as by other States. Eritreans also fully agree that the rule of law begins at home, including at the United Nations. It must not be forgotten that the implementation of the Commission’s decision was guaranteed by a treaty obligation signed by the Secretary-General on behalf of the United Nations. It is therefore essential to note that any stalemate in the demarcation process is a stalemate not between Eritrea, which has accepted the decision without any reservations or conditions, and Ethiopia, which has rejected it, but between Ethiopia and the United Nations, which has guaranteed implementation and provided for punitive action, under Chapter VII of the Charter, against the party that refuses to implement the Commission’s decision. The United Nations has the duty of enforcing the rule of law. This is a violation of the rule of law and demonstrates the collective failure of the United Nations to uphold the law and to instil respect for it in our fellow men and women. Ethiopia cannot be above the law; Eritrea should not be denied its protection, and the United Nations must employ its enforcement capacity for the rule of law by fulfilling its treaty obligations. Before concluding, I would like to outline briefly the views of my Government on other regional problems. My Government warmly welcomes the progress made over the past few months in promoting reconciliation and lasting peace in Somalia. Although we are handicapped by the war imposed on us by Ethiopia, we have nonetheless continued to make modest contributions to a durable and peaceful resolution of Somalia’s internal problem. Our approach has always hinged on supporting the Somalis as they try to find their own solutions and on preventing the fragmentation and Balkanization of Somalia, which have been driven by external, rather than internal, tendencies. The magnitude of the humanitarian crisis in the Sudan is too well known to merit explanation here. But as the international community focuses on what is currently taking place in Darfur, what is often missed is the larger picture of regional destabilization and incalculable human suffering that the fundamentalist extremist regime has been fomenting for almost 15 years. Furthermore, the ramifications of the National Islamic Front’s policies, which are based on extremist ideology, have not been confined to the Sudan but have affected several neighbouring countries, including my country. It is therefore essential that major Powers in the international community see the problem for what it is and assess it on the basis of what it portends. In conclusion, I would like to restate the position of my Government on the relevant ongoing debate about the reform of the United Nations system. It is clear to us, as a matter that has been reinforced by our recent experience, that, despite many achievements, there are areas of critical shortfall that require reform and restructuring. We also believe that parameters and considerations that were relevant when the United Nations was established in the immediate aftermath of the Second World War need to be revisited and adjusted, in accordance with contemporary realities. Furthermore, representation in the Security Council must satisfy the criteria of reasonable regional representation and equity, as well as of the equality of sovereign nations, as enshrined in the Charter.First of all, allow me to congratulate you on your election to the office of the President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I wish you every success and all the best in your very important work. I would also like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his leadership of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. The current session is very significant for Estonia, since it is the first time ever that we participate at the General Assembly as a member State of the European Union and the NATO. We are therefore more aware than ever before of our shared responsibility for the world, but also of our vulnerability to global threats. During the last few years, we have all witnessed new threats to world peace and security. We have also seen how these threats are all connected to economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems. The fifty- eighth session of the General Assembly focused on the situation in Iraq. However, securing peace and stability in the Middle East remains an ongoing concern. I hope that all of this has only deepened our conviction that the goals and principles of the United Nations Charter have not really lost their topicality but rather, are even more topical now. In today’s world of new threats and changing global security, we need shared solutions more than ever before. The United Nations is the only organization established to coordinate, on a global scale, the efforts of States in safeguarding international stability and security. The United Nations has to be even more decisive and efficient in order to successfully fulfil its important responsibilities in this new situation. The reduction of world poverty continues to be a central issue on the global development agenda; less poverty would certainly mean more international stability and security. The international community has made a commitment to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by the year 2015, halving poverty in the world by that time. That is a very optimistic promise indeed, and it assumes that all countries must perform even more purposefully and in an even more coordinated manner. High-level meetings in Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg have shown us the way; now, we must act. At the forthcoming 2005 summit, we will review our progress in fulfilling the goals set out in the Millennium Declaration. I would like to appeal to all of 25 us here to work so that we would be content with the conclusions in the interim report. Together with other United Nations Member States, Estonia shares responsibility for balanced development in the world and makes its contribution towards achieving the common goals. Only recently, we were one of the recipient countries of international aid. Now that we are one of the donors, we are very much aware of how important it is that international aid be coordinated and harmonized. We began providing international aid in 1998. Time has shown that the Estonian experience in building up democratic institutions, implementing economic reforms and involving civil society in public life and decision- making can really help other countries where such processes are still in their initial stage. Despite the work that has already been done to achieve the very challenging Millennium Development Goals, we must admit, unfortunately, that the gap between the rich and the poor is widening. What is more, it is taking new forms in our changing world. In addition to economic inequality, the information era has brought about the so-called digital divide, a divide between information-rich and information-poor States and nations as well as social groups. I would like to briefly elaborate on this topic. In spite of the rapid development in information technology over the last ten years, only a small group of privileged countries and social groups have benefited from the so-called digital revolution. For example, let us consider access to the Internet. Many of us cannot really imagine life without the Internet, but four-fifths of the world population have never had any contact with the Internet. More than a half of Internet users live in Europe or in North America, which together represent only 17 per cent of the world’s population. In Africa, only 1.4 per cent of the population uses the Internet. The digital divide exists not only between countries but also within countries, between different social groups. The causes of such a divide can be age, gender, language, education or income. The digital divide is a reflection of technological, social and economic backwardness, perhaps due to a lack of infrastructure or to that infrastructure being very expensive. At the same time, the digital divide is not only an expression of existing socio-economic inequality, but also amplifies it and even causes it. Today, the social and economic value of access to information is much higher than it was 20 years ago. Unequal access to know-how, information networks and opportunities to contribute to these networks, will, in the longer term, lead to a further marginalization of poor countries and poor social groups. Paradoxically, the very same Internet is behind this marginalization, although it is supposed to be the cheapest and most efficient way to exchange information and knowledge in the world. Since information technology has a strong impact on economic growth and competitiveness, there is no doubt that it is a new factor in development policy. That is why in recent years, more and more attention has focused on the causes and consequences of the digital divide. For example, the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Report 2001 concentrated on those problems and was the centre of attention at the 2003 World Summit on the Information Society in Geneva. I am very pleased that Estonia has, in a relatively short period of time, achieved a remarkable level in several areas of information technology. We have managed to create a favourable environment for development in this field and have ensured that the necessary infrastructure has been created through close cooperation between the public sector and the private sector, businesses and non-governmental organizations. As a result of this, Estonian citizens of limited means now have access to several information society services. According to “The Economist”, as of 2004, Estonia ranks 26th in the world in e-readiness and holds a leading position among Central and Eastern European countries. More than half the Estonian population regularly uses the Internet; 38 per cent own computers; 80 per cent own mobile phones; 62 per cent use Internet banking; and 59 per cent fill out their tax returns electronically. Estonians can communicate with both the central Government and local governments over the Internet and are able to use legally binding digital signatures. All those indicators are in line with European Union averages even though Estonia’s gross domestic product remains considerably lower than the European average. I believe that, as a former country in transition, Estonia has experiences which could be very useful for developing countries with respect to the promotion of information and communication technologies. Estonia is in a position to provide development assistance, first 26 and foremost in the form of know-how. We have already taken steps in that direction: in the summer of 2002 the Government of Estonia, the United Nations Development Programme and the Information Programme of the Open Society Institute jointly set up the Estonian e-Governance Academy. The purpose of that unique Academy is to improve the public-private cooperation in the information and communication technologies. The initial beneficiaries of the project are Central and Eastern European countries, countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Asian countries, but we already have future plans for African countries as well. The e-Governance Academy has already held training courses for officials from Kyrgyzstan, Sri Lanka, Albania, Kazakhstan and other countries. The year 2004 is the final year of the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People. I am an Estonian, and as an Estonian I have a specific reason to talk about indigenous peoples: we are a nation that knows how important it is to preserve and develop our culture and language. Therefore, I am very happy that recent decades have seen increased momentum in the activities of the United Nations and its agencies to protect the rights of indigenous peoples. But the approaching end of the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People must not mean diminished attention to the situation of indigenous peoples. The rights of indigenous peoples must be codified in international law without further delay. Estonia firmly supports the speedy formulation and adoption of a declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. Regardless of the progress that has been made locally, many of the world’s peoples remain uncertain about the preservation of their cultures and languages. Restrictions on the rights of indigenous peoples are one of the reasons behind the emergence of hot spots and crises. Scientists enter endangered species into a Red Book in order to help save them from extinction. But we do not yet have a Red Book of peoples. When a species of wildlife disappears, nature becomes poorer and the ecological balance can be damaged. By the same token, the extinction of a people means that the whole world becomes intellectually and culturally poorer. Anthropologists have used the concept of the “fourth world” to refer to the ever increasing marginalization of indigenous peoples and the deterioration of their living conditions. The living conditions of Finno-Ugric peoples in their historic homelands provide a worrying example. The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly has expressed its concerns in that respect. In August this year, the fourth World Congress of the Finno-Ugric Peoples took place in Estonia under the motto “Youth is our future.” The final document of the Congress expressed concern about the ongoing loss of national identity by Finno- Ugric peoples and called on the international community to devote greater attention to the protection of human rights and the rights of indigenous peoples and national minorities. I would like finally to touch upon the future of the United Nations. The United Nations needs to be strengthened and improved: it needs to be reorganized so that it can better respond to new challenges. Reorganization and increased efficiency would make the Organization more reliable and provide it with greater authority. Here, all Member States share a common goal: to ensure the steady development of the United Nations and to effect reforms that would enhance its effectiveness as a multilateral organization. Estonia firmly supports that process. I believe that greater attention should be devoted to the prevention of crises and conflicts. We await the publication on 1 December of the report of the High- Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, which could provide essential guidelines for making the United Nations function more efficiently in the changed global framework. Thanks to the efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the President of the fifty-eighth session, Julian Hunte, and thanks to the cooperation of Member States, discussions on revitalization of the work of the General Assembly have yielded concrete and desirable results, reflected in resolution 58/316, adopted on 1 July. That resolution is an essential landmark in the process of changing and modernizing the General Assembly to keep pace with developments in world events. At the fifty-ninth session, under the presidency of Mr. Jean Ping, we must continue and intensify our efforts in that direction. Finally, it is also high time that we moved forward with reform of the Security Council, which 27 would enable the United Nations to participate more effectively in resolving world problems and crises.I am addressing the General Assembly once again, at a time when the people and the institutions of Colombia are making great progress in their struggle to achieve democratic security. Such security would enable all citizens to live in peace, express their political views without putting their lives in danger and to support or oppose the Government while fully respecting different opinions. That policy has made significant progress in reducing murders, kidnappings and other terrorist acts, as well as population displacement and the growing of illicit drug crops. There is still a great deal to be done, but if we are persistent we will prevail. Democratic security is one of Colombia’s highest priorities if we are to regain credibility and if our citizens are once again to have confidence in our institutions. When trust is destroyed, the ties between the citizen and the nation are broken. Such trust requires transparency in public and private actions, as well as economic revitalization and social cohesion. Social cohesion builds trust among citizens and between citizens and the State. Social cohesion is the enemy of poverty and helps to promote equal opportunities. Colombia has established a legal framework to ensure that the benefits of economic growth lead to poverty eradication. Yet Colombia’s growth, which during the 1960s and 1970s was averaging 4.5 per cent a year, fell to an average of 2 per cent after 1980. That decline encouraged the informal economy, and was accompanied by poverty. The contrast became increasingly obvious between the formal private sector — which was fair with its workers and complied with its tax payments, but which grew at a slow pace — and the informal sector, which, with its overwhelming influence, drew in the destitute masses. Drug trafficking, which bankrolls terrorism, reversed the trend towards land distribution, through agrarian reform and the natural process of inheritance from one generation to the next. Between 1994 and 2000, unemployment among heads of household grew from 4 per cent to 10 per cent, and overall unemployment grew from 7.5 per cent to 19 per cent. In relatively few years, the deficit 2 increased from 1.5 per cent to 4.2 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP), public debt rose from 24 per cent to 54 per cent of GDP and 40 per cent of the public budget was allocated to debt servicing and repayment. Very low levels of private investment only made the situation worse. Defeating poverty requires strong and sustained economic growth. This in turn requires physical and legal security, transparent regulations and macroeconomic stability. Last year, Colombia forecast growth of 2.5 per cent — but growth was close to 4 per cent. This year we are endeavouring to achieve 5 per cent growth. We are able to do because we are restoring confidence among investors. With such growth, unemployment has fallen three points, although it is still quite high. A positive sign is that jobs are being created in sectors that will provide for social security and fair wages for workers. All that has happened despite fiscal restrictions to public investment and in the midst of an intense struggle to eliminate illicit drugs, which have become so significant that they now affect whether there will be positive or negative growth in our agricultural sector. At one time, my generation explained violence as the result of social inequities. My country’s experience over many decades allows me to affirm that terrorist violence has increased poverty and has destroyed the possibility of eliminating social inequity. Violence has worsened poverty and has exploited it to perpetuate itself. Our goal is to reduce poverty at a rate equal to or higher than economic growth. To a great extent, our social investment programme depends on sound and sustained economic growth. Therefore, our social investment programme goes hand in hand with our democratic security policy. If we neglect security measures that respect democratic values, terrorism will grow, we will lose momentum in defeating it, investment will be affected, the strength of our economic recovery will weaken and we could be left without resources for social investment. Today’s equality lies in economic and social opportunity. That is why we have placed so much emphasis on education. We have increased elementary school enrolment by 750,000, but the country still needs classroom space for 1.25 million new pupils. In 25 months we have increased technical training by two and a half times, promoting basic employment skills to enable young people to join the work force while continuing their studies. In the cities and in the countryside, we have been carrying out a silent revolution in technical training that will reach 4 million young people a year by 2006. A subsidy is being paid to 340,000 poor families to improve their children’s nutrition and ensure school attendance. There are now 503,000 children in the new breakfast programme for children under five; that number will double in 2005. That, together with the school cafeterias and the “Community Mothers” programme, will reach more than 6 million children under various nutrition programmes. By December, when this Administration will have been in office for 28 months, more than 4 million poor Colombians will have enrolled in the subsidized health programme, in addition to the 13 million who were already protected. We are carrying out legal and administrative reforms to increase coverage, with improved transparency and an effective and efficient use of resources. Colombia has more than 600,000 senior adults living in extreme poverty. In the past, 60,000 of them received a cash subsidy. This year, we have raised the number to 172,000 of our elderly compatriots. We are now starting a new programme to deliver one meal a day to 400,000 more who do not receive the cash subsidy. In addition, this year we are paying more than $100 million in subsidies to provide electricity to low- income members of the population. We are also subsidizing more than 7,000 reintegrated former members of various violent groups. This is part of a huge, silent, but effective peace process. When one of those persons is reintegrated, he sees the support of the State and the community, reconciles himself with civic institutions, embraces democracy and coexistence and rejects any justification for violence. We hope that many more thousands will follow, but we will require international cooperation for this programme. We are subsidizing 21,000 forest ranger families, who were formerly involved in illicit drug crops and are now committed to eliminating them and to recovering their tropical forests. Their task is essential for mankind, considering Colombia’s rich biodiversity and its 578,000 square kilometres of jungle, which are threatened by illicit drugs. To guarantee their food security, we are also subsidizing 700,000 farmers, and 3 that number will soon reach 1 million; we are also subsidizing the crops of farmers’ associations until they become productive and competitive. Poverty indicators should take account of such subsidies, which are usually not included when measuring the income of those families. Colombia has suffered a tragedy in the form of internal displacement. We have reduced its incidence by 40 per cent, but it is still high. We have facilitated the return of more 70,000 people and we expect that number to increase. One State agency alone has multiplied eightfold its budget to care for displaced persons. As a result of a law approved at the beginning of this Government’s tenure, the process for “ownership extinction” for illegally acquired assets has moved more quickly. We expect that that mechanism will be used to advance constructive agrarian reform. By paying additional taxes, the Colombian people are making an effort to finance security measures and restore social investment levels, for a total that represents 2 per cent of our gross domestic product. We have received the support of the multilateral banks, but we require greater understanding from the financial markets: longer-term loans and lower interest rates. We are engaged in an intense struggle, and we need better access to the markets of the industrialized countries. I would like to reaffirm Colombia’s commitment to multilateralism. Multilateralism must continuously improve if it is to become more effective and restore the lost consensus for safeguarding international peace. Building that consensus requires each State to feel that it is being heard and that it is being taken into account. I am grateful for the support of the United Nations agencies in social matters. We are fully prepared to back the efforts of the international community to consolidate democracy and security in the region, especially in Haiti. Colombia will be part of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. We will cooperate with police experts in the fight against drug trafficking, as well as with the humanitarian presence. Mr. Baali (Algeria), Vice-President, took the Chair. We must all join in an effective international solidarity movement with our Caribbean brothers, who are so seriously affected by the hurricane season. We need the total commitment of the international community in the struggle against terrorism in Colombia. Terrorism in one country feeds and strengthens terrorist networks throughout the world. The widows and orphans of violence in our country ask why we attach so much importance to terrorism in other parts of the world, and why some attach so little to the terrorism that besets Colombia. I make this appeal from the depths of our profound democratic conviction. It is difficult to find another country facing such a challenge of terrorism while simultaneously strengthening its democracy. Today, Colombia offer effective guarantees for the exercise of political pluralism by means of our democratic security policy. Our institutions combat terrorism with the unflinching political will of the Government. They do so with courage, selflessness and transparency. A dirty war has no place in our policies. A democratic State has the right to ask the world to demand that the terrorists return their kidnap victims rather than clamouring for lopsided agreements with terrorists. We ask the world for more decisive and more effective support. If it is broadened, the violent groups will have no option but to abandon terrorism and to accept peace. With the people of Colombia, its democratic institutions and the international community united, we can make Colombia an example of the capacity to defeat terrorism and observe human rights. And we can make Colombia an example of the ability to defeat terrorism and of the will to build social justice. We will expel terror with the help of legitimate institutions and of a community of solidarity and justice, with opportunities for its poorest members.At the outset, I would like to state that Portugal, of course, endorses the statement made here by the presidency of the European Union. Portugal wishes the United Nations to fulfil the central role it rightly deserves in the community of nations. The United Nations is an indispensable international Organization. Without this body, of which we are all a part, the world would be more unstable, less predictable and a place where the universal dream of peace and freedom would be no more than a mirage on a far-off horizon. The United Nations was established in a distant historical context, but its ideas and basic values remain contemporary. Portugal has a habit of recalling them, on occasions such as this, because we feel that this common undertaking is based on solid foundations. “We the peoples of the United Nations” believe in the dignity and the value of the human being, in fundamental freedoms and in equality between men and women. We defend the primacy of international law and tolerance in relations between peoples. But we also believe that one should not distinguish between large and small nations, as we all have a common interest in social advancement and in the maintenance of international peace and security. These are the objectives of this Organization that need to be preserved and strengthened. This is, in good truth, our common cause, the cause of humankind. The month of September, in this city of New York, inevitably brings back memories of the horror of three years ago. It forces us to look at the challenges to peace that this Organization and all of us face today. The tragic events in Madrid, Beslan, Baghdad, Jakarta and other places show us that terrorism has entered the deepest and darkest of shadows. No cause, no idea, justifies acts of pure barbarism and the spilling of innocent blood. Terrorism is an enemy of humankind. Moreover, Portugal believes that it is up to the United Nations to contribute decisively to the establishment of a global strategy against terrorism — a strategy that takes into account not only the obvious security-related responses, but also other elements that may have the potential to generate violence. 33 Let us be unyielding in the fight against terrorism, but let us also engage ourselves in doing it collectively. Let us take into account the laws and the values in whose name we are fighting, and should be fighting, this evil. Hunger and poverty generate despair and may cause people to choose the path of violence. I would therefore like to express my appreciation for the Summit of World Leaders for Action against Hunger and Poverty, promoted by President Lula da Silva, which I had the honour to attend. We believe that that meeting was a fundamental step towards alleviating cases of extreme poverty, which are unsustainable in moral and political terms. If we act now, the world can change for the better; if we do not, its balance could become increasingly difficult to manage. Portugal wants to be at the forefront of the future. That is why we believe that the sustainability of development and the defence of natural resources are paradigms of a new era. We believe that the economic development of the twenty- first century will be sustainable only if it truly respects the balance of the planet and if the Kyoto provisions are truly implemented. Does it make sense that an Organization like the United Nations continues to work in the twenty-first century as it did 60 years ago? The United Nations was born at a time when there were no televisions, no computers, no cellular phones. Communications, technologies and means of transportation have all changed; DNA and the human genome have now been discovered; we surf the Internet on a global scale. And yet the Organization that brings together the peoples of the world has the same structure that it had more than half a century ago. The pace of change is breathtaking. The United Nations finds itself at a crossroads: while its relevance is not challenged, we may question its effectiveness. But that is an issue that should be placed primarily before Member States. After all, the United Nations is an expression of our collective will. The Organization cannot be seen as a distant reflection on which we project our individual expectations, which often exceed the limits of the mandates and the means that we make available to it. In that regard, we support the work of the High- Level Panel established last year by the Secretary- General to examine current challenges to peace and security. The strategies for strengthening the Organization to be recommended by the Panel aim at preserving what is best in the United Nations and at ensuring that it is equipped with the means necessary to promote real development, prevent conflicts and protect human rights. Portugal unequivocally supports reform of the Security Council. We support its enlargement so that it will better reflect the world of today, through a rebalancing of its representativity. We have already stated before this forum — and we reaffirm today — our support for an increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members. Portugal’s support for Brazil, Germany and Japan has been known to the General Assembly since 1993. We have already expressed our support for India’s application for candidacy, and, on behalf of the Government of Portugal, I take the opportunity to express our commitment to seeing the African continent represented by a permanent seat on the Security Council. But we also want to improve the relationship between the Council and other organs and agencies of the United Nations, as well as promoting greater transparency in its decisions. The democracy that the Organization defends is not compatible with obsolete working methods that often have a negative impact on the image and the credibility of the United Nations and lead to its paralysis. Preventing conflicts is more important than solving them. We should be aware that the usefulness of the United Nations will ultimately be judged by its capacity for conflict prevention. The proliferation of crisis situations has led to the current deployment of approximately 60,000 Blue Helmets in peacekeeping operations, and that number continues to increase. Portugal has been with the United Nations in many of its peacekeeping operations around the world. Here, I would like to pay tribute to my compatriots and to all others who have served on peacekeeping missions, particularly those who have given their lives for our common ideals. It is our hope that the Organization can better develop its work in the field of conflict prevention. However, we still lack an efficient instrument for the development of that policy. Therefore, at the last session of the General Assembly, Portugal proposed the creation of a commission to promote peace and 34 development, under the authority of and in collaboration with the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council. Its objectives would be to regularly monitor countries in crisis or at risk and to ensure the cooperation6 of regional and international institutions. We believe that our proposal remains relevant, and we thank all those who have already improved it through suggestions and comments. This is an idea on which we have worked in particular with our partners in the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries, which I would like to warmly acknowledge on this occasion. Indeed, the Portuguese language is the unifying factor among hundreds of millions of people on five continents. So that it can have strength as a vehicle of communication and culture in the twenty-first century, the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries needs its members to make a clear commitment to the connection between the past, the present and the future. The fact that Portugal is the cradle of the Portuguese language does not lead us to claim it for ourselves alone with any special rights. The communities that one joins as a result of specific interests, however legitimate, can never erase one’s own community — one’s family, spirit, language, culture and identity. “Know thyself” was already inscribed at the foot of the Temple of Delphi. Nowhere are we confronted with such a huge predicament regarding the ability of the United Nations to act as in Iraq. Iraq needs the support of the international community. The Iraqi people, ravaged by decades of dictatorship and war, deserve such support. And we should give the United Nations the necessary means to fulfil in its entirety the mandate provided by the Security Council. But we must also understand clearly that the international presence in Iraq — approved by the Security Council and by the Iraqi Interim Government — is by its own nature provisional. It is time for the international community to unite in its efforts to ensure that the Iraqi people again find the path towards peace and development. We cannot change the past, but we must assume that the future can still be influenced in a positive way. Thus, we must quickly restore unity if our Organization is not to suffer permanent collateral damage as a result of the Iraqi crisis. For democracy to succeed in Iraq, and for that country to maintain its unity, it is essential that its people have a say, through elections, regarding the way they wish to be governed. It is also important that the agreed political timetable be honoured, or we may seriously compromise the rightful expectations of the Iraqi people and Government. We cannot allow those who generate instability through unthinkable acts of terrorism to have the power to veto the establishment of a democratic regime in Iraq. Elections are the only way to enable the Iraqi people to meet the destiny of democracy and freedom to which they are entitled. Peace, freedom and democracy are also at stake in other parts of the world we inhabit. We cannot look away from the tragedy unfolding in Darfur. Our collective security also requires the effective international control of the production of nuclear, chemical and bacteriological weapons and the means to deploy them. For the maintenance of international security, it is also essential that the Organization continues to push for the resumption of the Middle East peace process. The existing status quo is unacceptable. Israel and Palestine need to learn to coexist in peace and security, within internationally recognized borders and without artificial partitions. We cannot replace the dichotomy between liberalism and collectivism with another between liberty and peace on the one hand and terror and dictatorship on the other. The world has already entered a new era. The peoples of the whole world, as referred to in the Charter of the United Nations, demand a new contract between the governed and those who govern. The three classic powers of Montesquieu are no longer the only ones in the government of the peoples. Those who believe so are lost in time. There is nothing worse than erring in our perception of reality. There are powers that are not as they were and others that Montesquieu, Locke and the drafters of liberal revolutions could not know of, because they did not exist or because, over time, they have changed configuration. One need only think of the power of the media over people’s lives today. Our peoples want to feel strength in the present and faith in the future. For that reason, I shall end my address the way I began: stressing the indispensability and the centrality of the United Nations in the daily 35 lives of free and sovereign nations. We belong to an Organization that has restored hope to many peoples and human beings by bringing the light of freedom to those who lived in oppression. Timor-Leste is an excellent example of the ability of the United Nations to do good. But one should also stress the attention the United Nations has given to the vulnerable, children and the disabled and to the promotion of gender equality. For this Organization, humankind is not an abstract entity. The dialogue between cultures, civilizations and religions, which Portugal upholds, is an integral part of the daily work of the United Nations. We are part of an Organization dedicated to making peace and preventing war. We are party to a collective project in the service of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We have the strength of our convictions. And, as Pope John Paul II has stated, we know that peace is not weakness, but strength.Sir, it is with great pleasure that I congratulate you on your election as President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We are living in trying and turbulent times. As we meet, the world continues to be haunted by the spectre of terrorism, as most recently evidenced in Russia and Iraq. The victims are, as always, the innocent. The objective is global instability and insecurity, leading to increased intolerance and social regression. The hideousness of the means employed by terrorists exposes them for what they are. No just political cause can be served by such acts. The war against terrorism is a struggle against barbarism. The perpetrators of terror must be rooted out and their bases and networks destroyed. This war is inherently a campaign in support of the values of the 48 United Nations — the values that we all seek to foster — and it is in response to a threat that has serious implications for all of the Member States of our Organization. Our challenge is actively to defend freedom against the forces of tyranny to affect the conditions that help create the spectre of terrorism. If anyone thought the threats to global security that provided the impetus for looking at serious reforms of the United Nations system had receded, then surely the recent terrorist outrage in southern Russia gives pause for reflection. The great challenges in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as in parts of Africa, and the considerable work still remaining to achieve the Millennium Development Goals testify to the fact that the need for change has not passed. On the contrary. The High-level Panel will soon submit its report, and next year a summit is planned for the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations and the fifth year after the Millennium Summit. Iceland believes that we now have a historic opportunity to undertake meaningful and long-awaited reform. This would in no small way be a reinforcement of the idea of multilateralism and, if genuine and far-sighted, will equip the United Nations to deal more effectively with threats to global security. It will be our weighty responsibility here next year to hammer out decisions on reform. We will have the opportunity to make changes that will equip the multilateral system to be more effective in preventing conflict, in resolving conflict where it occurs and in post-conflict peace-building. We can of course choose to do nothing. We can linger complacently in the inertia of the status quo. The consequence would, however, be that the United Nations would become less and less capable of facing these common challenges to our security. In particular, we must grasp the chance to make the Security Council itself more representative, while increasing its efficiency and effectiveness. The discussions of many years on increasing the number of non-permanent and permanent seats must reach a conclusion. It is time that certain countries that have long made a considerable contribution to the work of the United Nations be given permanent seats on the Security Council. I am referring in particular to Germany, India, Japan and Brazil. But it is no less important to ensure that Africa also be given a permanent seat on the Council. Smaller States make up the vast majority of United Nations Members. Ensuring that smaller States are adequately represented in the various organs of the United Nations is not only a matter of paying due regard to the principles of sovereignty; it is also a practical matter of ensuring that the particular challenges faced by smaller States — both island States and others — are taken into account in the multilateral system. Iceland knows the problems related to being far away from potential markets. We know well the struggle of small economies to diversify, and we have direct experience of the vulnerability of small countries to external economic shocks and natural disasters. I would like to take this opportunity to extend our sympathy to all those Caribbean States that have suffered so much in the recent hurricanes. My Government is considering ways in which it could contribute to disaster relief or reconstruction. Just as it is fundamental to the legitimacy of the Security Council that there be fair representation of the various regions of the world, it is also important that the many smaller States feel that their issues are understood and taken into account. In that context, I would like to refer to the previously announced candidacy of my country, Iceland, for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2009-2010, which was already endorsed in 1998 by the Nordic States — Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden — within the Group of Western European and other States. Smaller States make a valuable contribution to running the multilateral system. Smaller States provide some of the most innovative thinking on approaches to the challenges we face and — in per capita terms and often in absolute terms — are some of the most generous contributors. An issue of key concern to small island States, but also to the world at large, is sustainable use of the world’s resources. As Iceland completed its term as a member of the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD), my Government was very pleased to see the organizational changes in the working methods of the CSD implemented at its twelfth session, in April. My Government looks forward to continuing its active participation in the future work of the CSD to achieve and promote the sustainable development of 49 the world’s resources. Iceland will also continue to work on alternative energy resources, particularly the possibilities of hydrogen as a clean-energy provider. Iceland is committed to attaining the Millennium Development Goals as they are set out in the Millennium Declaration. My Government will participate actively in the preparations for the major summit in 2005. It is clear that the international community must speed up its efforts in order to achieve, before 2015, the goals set by the Millennium Summit. We regard the 2005 summit to be one of the important milestones on the way to attaining them. I now turn to questions concerning particular regions. Iceland warmly welcomes the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) initiative and its aim of ensuring democracy, human rights, good governance and sound economic management. The efforts of African countries in the management and resolution of conflicts in their own region and the establishment of a Peace and Security Council within the African Union are ground-breaking developments, as are the African mediation in a number of conflicts and the efforts of the African Union and African regional organizations to develop their capabilities for peace-supporting operations. Sub-Saharan Africa continues to be the focus of Icelandic bilateral development cooperation, and we will continue to increase our contribution to and involvement in multilateral development cooperation. Iceland welcomes the recent understanding among members of the World Trade Organization on a framework for the continuation of the Doha development round of negotiations on trade liberalization. The multilateral trading system is a proven vehicle for promoting economic development and growth, and it is central to the future prosperity of our nations. It is noteworthy that particular attention is paid to the needs of the least developed countries. It is important that they fully reap the benefits that the multilateral trading system has to offer. Iceland believes that the framework will give the negotiators in Geneva a new platform for the prompt conclusion of the Doha round. We want to do our part in making sure that globalization benefits all countries, not least through targeted development cooperation. In an effort to assist African countries in making the most of the Doha round, Iceland is participating, together with the other Nordic countries, in the Nordic Africa initiative. Security Council resolution 1546 (2004), unanimously adopted on 6 June, provided for the restoration of sovereignty in Iraq. The resolution assigns the United Nations a leading role in helping to build a legitimate representative Government and democratic institutions. It also demonstrated the will of the Council — and indeed of the rest of the international community — to resolve past differences and to give first priority to the political and economic reconstruction of Iraq. My Government remains prepared to lend its support to the difficult work ahead in Iraq. In Iraq, as elsewhere, Iceland would like to emphasize the importance of ensuring the safety of United Nations missions. Afghanistan will continue to occupy our attention in the coming months. The United Nations has done valuable work in registering some 10 million voters. The presidential elections on 9 October in Afghanistan will be an important milestone in the process of rebuilding the country. We must maintain an ongoing commitment to Afghanistan, where serious challenges to the rebuilding of the country continue to be faced. Iceland has demonstrated its support and has assumed the leading role in running the Kabul international airport, under the auspices of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force. An area of continuing concern is, of course, the Middle East. The Icelandic Government continues to call on Israel and the Palestinian Authority to resume negotiations on a political settlement. The road map sets out a realistic way to achieve a two-State solution. Iceland fully supports the efforts of the Quartet. We urge the Quartet and all other well-intentioned parties to continue to focus on this issue. At the beginning of my remarks, I concentrated on terrorism. Terrorism is an assault on human rights. I would like to express strong support for the initiative of the Secretary-General urging Member States to ratify all those conventions that concern protection of the rights of the ordinary citizen. In conducting the war against terrorism, we must protect the human rights that terrorists themselves flout. We must be sure that human rights and humanitarian law are not sacrificed. Here, I would like to refer to the key role played by the International Committee of the Red Cross — and by the entire Red Cross and Red Crescent movement — in monitoring the implementation of the Geneva Conventions, and at 50 the same time to express my appreciation for that work. During this session of the General Assembly, Iceland will continue to work to advance the issue of human rights. In that context, we look forward to marking the twenty-fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and we urge those States that are not parties to accede to the Convention. Iceland will also continue to work with others to uproot racism and religious intolerance as a major way to prevent conflict and create a secure human environment. Iceland is totally committed to the multilateral system, of which the United Nations is the fulcrum. Without an effective multilateral system, conflict and its causes will be much more difficult to address. But, in order to be effective, the system needs change. The Government of Iceland sincerely hopes that we can bring about necessary change during the next year, and we look forward to working with all Member States to that end.I offer my warm congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I am confident that under your presidency fruitful results will be achieved. I also wish to pay a cordial tribute to Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, and to Secretary-General Kofi Annan. The recent appalling terror in Beslan, Russia, caused massive casualties, including many children. On behalf of the Chinese Government, I strongly condemn, once again, that inhuman act of terrorist violence and extend our deep condolences to the families of the victims. Peace and development remain the dominant themes in today’s world. Multipolarization and economic globalization are moving forward in twists and turns. Science and technology are advancing at a dizzying speed. Forces that make for peace and factors that lead to war are both on the rise. Human society is moving in a bright, progressive and positive direction. However, the light of peace has not fallen on every corner of the globe, nor has development reached every inch of the Earth. Threats to security, both traditional and non-traditional, are intertwined. The dark cloud of war remains menacing. Hot spots keep springing up. Terrorist activities are raging, and cross- border problems such as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, drug trafficking, transnational crime and illegal immigration are erupting one after another. Factors of uncertainty, instability and unpredictability are increasing. In the course of economic globalization, the gap between the North and the South is widening. Developing countries are confronting new difficulties and challenges as a growing number of them are further marginalized. Today, half the global population lives on less than $2 a day, and of those, 1.2 billion live on less than $1 a day. Much remains to be done to implement the Millennium Development Goals. Peace, development and cooperation are the prerequisites for our times. People all over the world are raising their voice in favour of peace, development and cooperation and against war, poverty and confrontation. Peace is the precondition for human development and prosperity. Without a peaceful and stable international environment, development is out of the question for any country. A chaotic world benefits no one. Having experienced the scourge of two world wars, mankind would not tolerate any more war or bloodshed. Thus it is the fervent aspiration of all peoples to live and achieve development in a secure and stable environment. In tackling security issues, it is imperative to foster a new security concept of mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality and cooperation. This new concept calls for nations to transcend their differences in ideology and social systems, respect one another’s security interests, promote greater democracy in international relations and seek peaceful solutions to disputes through dialogue. Terrorism is the common enemy of the whole world. China stands firmly opposed to terrorism in all forms and manifestations. To prevent and fight terrorism, we must intensify international cooperation and address both the causes and symptoms of the threat. Only when the root causes of terrorism are eradicated can peoples live in peace and tranquillity again. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses a threat to world peace and security. Non- proliferation efforts therefore require the participation of all members of the international community. Likewise, it is important to discard unilateralism and double standards and to give full credit and full latitude to the role of the United Nations. China takes an active part in multilateral non- proliferation efforts and firmly defends the international regime of arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation treaties. China believes that multilateral arms control, disarmament and non- proliferation processes can be steadily promoted in order to further improve the international non- proliferation regime. There is still a long way to go before peace and reconstruction can be realized in Iraq. We support an important role for the United Nations in Iraq’s political process, helping that country achieve the smooth holding of elections. 10 We appeal to Palestine and Israel to resume dialogue as soon as possible and to start implementing the Middle East road map faithfully. As always, China will work to resolve the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula through dialogue and talks, in the interest of peace and stability on the Peninsula. Development is the foundation for human progress. Lasting peace and stability throughout the world depends on coordinated, balanced and universal development. Development is of overriding importance. Living in peace, abundance and harmony between nations has been the dream of many generations. Coordinated, balanced and sustainable development serves the fundamental interests of all peoples and works for their well-being. In order to promote economic growth worldwide, it is necessary for the international community to take effective measures to put in place an open and fair multilateral trading regime and gradually improve it. It is also important to reform and improve the international financial system. The developed countries must honour their commitments to debt reduction, technology transfer and market access through concrete actions in order to enable developing countries to really benefit from globalization. The developing countries, for their part, need to work together to attain development and take part in a wide range of international efforts. They should also deepen South-South cooperation. We, the members of the international community, should join hands in working for a just and equitable new international economic order that meets the needs of the growing economic globalization and serves the common interests of all countries. The Millennium Development Goals are our solemn, collective pledge. The United Nations should further mobilize resources, strengthen coordination and increase its input to development activities in order to help Member States achieve these important goals as scheduled. Cooperation is an effective way of dealing with the collective challenges facing humankind. To strengthen international cooperation, we must champion multilateralism. The United Nations is the centre of the international multilateral system and the key platform for making multilateralism work. It is the widespread desire of the international community to adhere to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter, take more collective actions, strengthen the role of the United Nations and safeguard its authority. The threats and challenges we face make it imperative to strengthen, rather than weaken, the role of the United Nations. A stronger United Nations is indispensable for maintaining global peace and stability and promoting the common development of humankind. All Member States should honour their commitments to the Charter of the United Nations and fulfil their international responsibilities and obligations. The world is eagerly looking forward to a dynamic and action-oriented United Nations. China supports necessary and rational reforms of the Organization. Such reforms should aim at enhancing the leading role of the United Nations in international affairs, reinforcing its capacity to tackle new threats and challenges, and ensuring that better reflects the aspirations and needs of the vast majority of developing countries. China is in favour of expanding the Security Council and of giving priority to greater representation of the developing countries. China also supports the work of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, and it is looking forward to the Panel’s report by the end of this year, so that it can be reviewed by Member States. China is a staunch force working for world peace, common development and international cooperation. After over half a century of strenuous efforts and more than two decades of reform and opening up, China has now entered a new stage of development aimed at building a moderately prosperous society all-round. However, China is still a developing country, and a large population and inadequate economic development remain its basic national conditions. It has a long way to go before achieving its development goals. The Chinese Government will always place development at the top of its agenda. The fact that China — a large, developing country with 1.3 billion people — runs its own affairs well is in itself a major contribution to peace and to the development of humanity. 11 China desires peace, development and cooperation, and strives to win peace and development through cooperation. It is working to promote democracy in international relations, diversity in its modes of development and richness in the world’s civilizations. It advocates a new security concept and facilitates the establishment of a fair and equitable new international order. China will pursue with determination an independent foreign policy of peace, adhere to the five principles for Peaceful Coexistence, and engage in mutually beneficial and friendly cooperation with other countries on an equal footing. China will unswervingly safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity, brook no interference in its internal affairs by foreign forces and, at the same time, respect other countries’ sovereignty and territorial integrity. China remains committed to the common interests of humankind. China’s national interests, in the final analysis, are consistent with the common interests of all humankind. In handling State-to-State relations, China will safeguard its own interests while taking into account the interests of other countries. China will adhere to the policy of opening up, and develop economic relations and trade with all other nations on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. China’s development stands in the way of no one, nor does it pose any threat to others. China is following the path of peaceful development, seeking an international environment of peace and stability for its own development and promoting world peace and progress through its own prosperity. China is working steadily to develop its relations with the world’s major countries. It will stay committed to the policy of building friendship and partnership with its neighbours and combine stronger bilateral friendships with enhanced regional cooperation. It will strengthen solidarity and cooperation with other developing countries and support any justified demands or legitimate propositions on their part in international affairs. It will play a constructive role in the political, economic, social, disarmament, arms control and other multilateral fields; safeguard the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the universally recognized norms governing international relations; and support any consensus that serves the common interests of all countries. Taiwan is an inalienable part of Chinese territory. Safeguarding China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and realizing complete national reunification at an early date is the common will and firm resolve of the 1.3 billion Chinese people. Pursuing the policy of “peaceful reunification and one country, two systems”, the Chinese Government is ready to work tirelessly towards a peaceful reunification with the utmost sincerity. We, more than anyone else, want to see a peaceful settlement of the Taiwan question. But we will never tolerate Taiwan independence, nor will we allow anyone to separate Taiwan from the rest of China in any way. We hope that the international community will fully recognize the complex and sensitive nature of the current situation across the Taiwan Strait and the serious threat posed by the separatist activities of the Taiwan authorities to the stability of the Taiwan Strait and the peace of the Asia-Pacific region. We expect the Assembly to continue supporting the Chinese Government’s efforts for peaceful reunification and to join us in containing pro-independence activities, in the interest of stability in the Strait and of world peace. This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. As the basic guidelines for State-to-State relations, the Five Principles have withstood the test of half a century and remain an irrefutable truth. The Five Principles, which include peace, development and cooperation, are consistent with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. They provide guidance for the establishment and development of relations between countries with identical or different social systems; point to the correct path towards the peaceful settlement of outstanding issues between countries and international disputes; firmly defend the interests of the developing countries; and facilitate the improvement and development of North-South relations. The Five Principles present important ideas that must underpin the establishment of a fair and equitable new international order. China not only initiated, but has faithfully observed, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. Given the new realities of today, we will continue to champion those Principles and join all the peoples of 12 the world in advancing the lofty cause of peace, development and cooperation.I am honoured by the opportunity to speak before the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on behalf of the people of my Pacific island nation, the Federated States of Micronesia, and on behalf of our President, Joseph J. Urusemal. Allow me to extend my congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your well-deserved election to this high office. I would also like to recognize Mr. Julian Robert Hunte of Saint Lucia for his distinguished service as president of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. Sadly, there have been so many recent disasters in which innocent lives have been lost that time does not permit me to mention them all. Whenever we learn of human suffering brought about by the forces of nature — whether by earthquake, storms or otherwise — our hearts go out to the victims. As Pacific islanders, my people feel a special sympathy for the victims of the recent typhoons and hurricanes in Haiti, Grenada, Jamaica, Cuba, the Cayman Islands, the Bahamas, Florida and in Japan and China, as well as in our own country and elsewhere in the Pacific, such as in Guam, the Mariana Islands and in Niue. It does not take a scientist to see that such storms are now occurring with increasing frequency and devastating intensity. We must also express our great sadness over the continuing loss of life at the hands of terrorists, and we condemn in the strongest terms all those who wrongly think their causes are advanced by such misguided acts. All human life is precious, but the recent terrorist atrocity committed against schoolchildren in Beslan, Russia, was particularly vile. The world must speak out with one voice in utter contempt of those who were responsible. I regret to say that, in addition to working to defeat terrorism, this body must also find more effective means of combating genocide that is sponsored or tolerated by a Government. There must be no refuge for those who would deny entire populations the basic right of existence. It is obvious today that expressions of condemnation and even multilateral treaties do not deter such people. As our technology provides even more effective and readily available means of mass destruction, the bright promise of the coming years could be overwhelmed by an unthinkable nightmare. The people of the Federated States of Micronesia know that even we, the inhabitants of a remote island nation, do not have the luxury of remoteness from the threats posed by such crimes against humanity. These 2 are threats to which all are exposed and from which all are at risk. Though our numbers are relatively small, many of our finest young citizens are standing today with others on the front lines against tyranny and oppression. We will not shirk our commitment, but, if there is any hope of making such crimes a thing of the past, that commitment cannot be conditional or selective. It must be universal. Even if we summon up the will to act collectively to put down the darker side of human nature through collective action, we must work much harder on a global scale to move towards eliminating the conditions that provide fertile ground for the sponsors of terrorism and genocide. These include conditions of poverty, hunger and inadequate access to clean water, sanitation, health care and education. All those conditions, of course, are familiar to students of the United Nations Charter. Thanks in no small part to the work of the Organization, statisticians are able to identify significant, even dramatic, progress over the past 60 years, and those trends can be expected to continue as we dedicate ourselves to the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. But trends do not mean much to the children who will die of starvation today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Growth in gross domestic product is of little comfort to the man desperately trying to support a family on less than $1 a day, who sees no hope of improving his situation. The world — acting through this and other bodies, in addition to providing direct assistance — must redouble its efforts, because there is still a long way to go, and this planet of ours becomes more dangerous every day. As if what I have just mentioned were not challenging enough, we also now know that the global community faces a wide variety of complex tasks in protecting the planet from environmental catastrophe. We humans, sitting at the top of the genetic ladder, have the capacity to foul the nest of Creation, and most agree that that is happening to one degree or another. One thing is clear: we are the only ones who can do something about it. Considerable costs will be involved, and not just in funds. Some say that the industrialized world must change its deeply ingrained patterns of energy consumption and make other adjustments. Others say that the developing world must switch to more sustainable development approaches, at a higher initial cost. Can the nations of the world afford the price tag of achieving all those things? The economic indications are that we can; it is a question of will, determination and perseverance. There is no lack of wealth in this world. By just about any measurement, people in the industrialized world today enjoy a far higher standard of living than has ever been known before. Many developing countries are not far behind. But, when it comes to actually taking the steps necessary to overcome the dilemmas I have mentioned, we confront the real challenge: to determine the wisest allocation of our resources and to act accordingly, in the spirit of the eight Millennium Development Goals. It does not take a great deal of wisdom to conclude that mankind must continue to place high priority on the eradication of poverty and hunger. Likewise, the need for prudence in protecting our earthly environment and its resources is increasingly obvious. But allocating our resources properly, identifying the correct timing, and acting so as to attain those goals will require virtually every scientific, economic, political and ethical capacity that we can summon. The process must involve an even-handed approach, without room for guilt, blame or jealousy. While there is a real need for action, there is no need for panic. The planet can still be saved, and the social conditions for despair can be overcome. We must, however, all play our respective roles with commitment, compassion and in accordance with an equitable division of responsibility. Let us put aside the finger-pointing and the tyranny of self-interest, and let us set about the task. There are several issues of concern to my country regarding which I would like, briefly, to be more specific. First, Micronesia looks forward to the convening of the International Meeting, in January 2005 in Mauritius, which will conduct the critical 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action, focusing on the particular needs and vulnerabilities of the small island developing States as they pursue sustainable development. During the past 10 years, we have seen progress in implementing the Programme of Action, with the close involvement and support of the Secretariat. However, that progress needs to be accelerated. The International Meeting will enable us to identify and make essential course corrections. 3 Naturally, over the past 10 years, we have also seen the emergence of new challenges and issues that were not originally addressed. Now these can also be considered. Overall, the outcomes of the International Meeting should be target-oriented so that progress in implementing the Programme of Action can be tracked and measured. Of course, the International Meeting will be successful only if the representatives of island States are able to attend. Micronesia thus calls upon the donor community to provide generous support to the trust fund so that island States may be adequately represented at the Meeting. In that regard, I must acknowledge and express appreciation to those countries that have already contributed. Developing- country partners and developed countries should also make every effort to be represented at the highest possible political level to ensure that the International Meeting receives the political support it needs for the effective implementation of its outcomes. Perhaps foremost among the vulnerabilities of Micronesia — together with other members of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) — is our extreme exposure to the adverse effects of global climate change. For more than a decade now, we have been vocal in this body and elsewhere on virtually every aspect of climate change. One aspect of that issue is a source of increasing concern to me as the debate evolves beyond whether climate change is real to what should be done about it, and that aspect has to do with environmental ethics. In Micronesia, as in most island States, our people have a tradition of living in harmony with nature. Consequently, our ecological “footprint” has been small. While we who live on islands can and need to do more to curb unsustainable practices, it is clear that we have contributed little to the climate crisis and that we can contribute little to its solution. Yet we are among the first to be affected and even face possible extinction. For the populations of low-lying small islands, however, practical options are few. Land is in short supply on islands in the best of times, and that land has long been taken. Contrary to the romantic fantasy, there are no desert islands available; island populations already tend to be concentrated. Previous efforts to relocate island populations have brought suffering and cultural losses to the people concerned. To those of us facing the prospect of cultural eradication, the unabated advancement of already-inflated lifestyles in the industrialized world does not seem a “greater good”. We continue to support the call of AOSIS for immediate implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. Export and licensing income from the bounty of Micronesia’s waters and its vast exclusive economic zone is by far the greatest contribution to the nation’s budget, next to foreign assistance. Fisheries are also a vital resource of virtually every Pacific island country. A cooperative approach on the part of coastal States and distant-water fishing nations in the sustainable conservation and management of those resources is essential, since we now know that they are not inexhaustible. Thus, Micronesia welcomes the entry into force of the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Central and Western Pacific Ocean, established pursuant to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We call upon all States and entities that have participated in the process of establishing the Conservation and Management Convention to assign high priority to cooperating fully in the implementation of its provisions. I would like to put on record my country’s growing concern over the practice of deep-sea trawling. The region of the Pacific contains literally thousands of seamounts, which scientists are finding to be extremely rich in biodiversity and which hold great potential value for future generations. Yet, short- sightedly, too many are dragging trawl nets over these deep-ocean areas, unknowing and uncaring as to the damage they are causing to the seabed below. There is an urgent need for an improved and coordinated scientific focus on identifying and managing risk to biodiversity and the environment in the deep oceans. We need to broaden our presently inadequate knowledge about these unique ocean habitats and ensure that they are managed in a sustainable way. Meanwhile, given the risk posed by present practices, we urge the international community to impose and observe a moratorium on deep sea trawling. Despite the extension in 2001 of the time frame set by the parties to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea for a delimitation of the continental shelf, Micronesia and many small island developing 4 States face continuing difficulties in meeting our obligations in this regard. The problem is a lack of financial resources and the scientific and technical expertise needed to acquire and collate the highly complex scientific data. Without targeted assistance from the donor community, countries like Micronesia will find it extremely difficult to make the required submission on the limits of the continental shelf, even within the extended time frame. As neighbours and fellow islanders, we are saddened by the inability of the people of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, after almost 50 years, to secure full compensation for the death, sickness and destruction they suffered as a consequence of nuclear weapons testing. Recently declassified documents make it clear that the original settlements were not based on the full story of what happened to the Marshallese people as well as other peoples of the former Trust Territory. We join other Members in calling upon the United States to meet its responsibility in full. This year, Micronesia wishes to again express its support for United Nations reforms, particularly for the reform of the Security Council and the inclusion of our neighbour, Japan, among its permanent members. We are increasingly concerned over the seeming lack of progress on this critical matter. My final topic is security in the region of the Pacific. Our President shared with leaders at the recently-concluded annual meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum in Apia, Samoa, a common concern that amidst all the current attention to global security issues, the nations of the Pacific islands are being left largely to their own devices in dealing with threats related to organized crime and terrorism. We are working hard to address our vulnerabilities in these areas, but I would like to simply note here that the rest of the world, especially the North, is not serving its own best interests by giving short shrift to the possibilities for criminal and terrorist exploitation that are presented by our vast region. Over and above other traditional official development assistance, we need a range of targeted assistance in our region. Once again, it has been our most valued opportunity to appear and address the General Assembly. The need for this Organization has never been stronger, and as each year goes by, it seems that the significance and relevance of our Charter increases. In these difficult times, we in Micronesia choose not to lose heart, but rather to take heart that we, the nations of the world gathered here, can together build not just a better world, but one that is a worthy inheritance for future generations.I would like to take this opportunity to extend to you, Sir, our sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. You may safely count on my delegation’s full support in the discharge of your important responsibilities. Hungary is firmly committed to effective multilateralism as a key tool of its foreign policy. Well- functioning international organizations and institutions having broad political support in the international community can and should, indeed, play a significant role in addressing the challenges of our globalized world. We are looking forward with eager expectation to the outcome of the work of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, set up by the 23 Secretary-General, to be finalized later this year. Addressing the complex and difficult tasks that we are facing today needs not only strong political will on the part of all of us, but also an improved and adapted multilateral framework of cooperation. Only a system of international institutions whose activities and form of operation are renewed and adjusted to the realities of our contemporary world can be effective as an instrument in addressing successfully the threats and challenges. Hungary remains strongly committed to making the United Nations more effective. To this end, the United Nations, including the Security Council, must adapt to the changing circumstances of the political landscape. New and emerging threats, including international terrorism, the danger of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, transnational organized crime and failing States are all grave menaces. The role played by Member States in prevention and early warning should therefore be stronger than ever. These challenges are global or regional in nature and, in our view, the response to them must be at the same level. Without such enhanced cooperation among the members of the international community, all efforts are doomed to be fruitless. Heinous acts of terrorism such as those that caused immense human suffering in New York, Washington, D.C., Bali, Istanbul, Madrid and, recently, the Russian Federation, should be considered brutal attacks against the values of democracies. By putting innocent lives at risk, they also seek to undermine the openness and tolerance of our societies. Along with our partners in the European Union, Hungary strongly condemns all forms of terrorism. In this regard, we fully support the important work of the Security Council’s Counter-Terrorism Committee. We hope that its reinvigorated activity, including planned visits by the Committee to Member States, will contribute to the enhancement of our capabilities in combating terrorism. It is of the utmost importance to provide assistance in strengthening the preparedness of those countries that are eager to tackle the menace originating from their territory. Substantial work has been undertaken on freezing funds and financial resources to prevent the financing of terrorism. The United Nations has to continue to be a key player in that fight. To achieve real and tangible results in that regard, we have to ensure full implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions and the accession of the largest possible number of States to international conventions and protocols to combat terrorism. Hungary has done its part to that end. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery continues to be a clear and present threat to international peace and security. New discoveries of large-scale nuclear-weapon programmes, networks of illicit trafficking in nuclear material and technology and the ill-conceived policies of denial and deceit about the purpose and nature of such programmes remain a most serious concern to the international community. There is a growing recognition, shared by Hungary, that those programmes also represent the most serious risks of proliferation. The danger of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons falling into the hands of rogue States, terrorist groups or, for that matter, any other non-State actors that menace our world, gives rise to new, major security challenges. In that regard, we must act together in a decisive manner, both regionally and globally. In that respect, Hungary strongly supports the implementation of Security Council resolution 1540 (2004), which calls on all States to establish effective national export controls. We urge full implementation of that resolution and are prepared to assist others in doing so. In our fast-changing world security environment, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) is and should remain the cornerstone of the universal non-proliferation regime. Along with our European Union partners, we are committed to safeguarding the Treaty’s authority and integrity. In that context, we are looking forward to the Seventh Review Conference of the NPT next year. We should continue our efforts in the field of conflict prevention and post-conflict crisis management. For millions of people in conflict areas, those efforts mean hope for peace and a better, more secure future. We are confident that the joint efforts of the Iraqi people and the international community will lead to a democratic and prosperous Iraq living in peace with 24 itself and its neighbours. Hungary strongly condemns the terrorist acts and the kidnappings aimed at undermining the political and reconstruction process in that much-suffering country. The contribution of the United Nations is essential for success. Our Organization has already proven to be effective in advancing the political process when it seemed to have come to a standstill. Hungary continues to contribute, along with coalition forces, to the stabilization and the improvement of security conditions in Iraq. We deem it important that relevant international organizations and institutions increase their joint efforts towards that end, including through the training of Iraqi security personnel. At this moment, our priorities in Iraq must be to assist preparations for the national elections and the drafting of a new constitution. Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) provides a key role for the United Nations in the political transition process. Its ample experience in establishing democratic institutions, the rule of law, the promotion of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and electoral assistance can and should be utilized. Hungary views the potentially successful realization of the presidential and the subsequent parliamentary elections in Afghanistan as important steps towards the normalization of the political situation in that country. We welcome the fact that despite unsatisfactory security conditions, progress is being made on preparations for the presidential elections to be held in October this year. Hungary is deeply concerned about the continued violence in the Middle East, where substantial progress is yet to be achieved. We remain convinced that full and unconditional implementation of the road map offers the best chance for the parties directly involved to live side by side in peace and security. We urge all involved, including the Quartet, to redouble their efforts to that end. The situation in the Balkans continues to remain at the centre of our attention. Overall developments in the region and the efforts of the international community have resulted in a calm but fragile political environment. In that respect, Hungary is committed to maintaining its presence in the international missions, in the service of peace and stability, in that region which is so close to us. In that connection, we are following with serious concern the deterioration of the human rights situation in our immediate neighbourhood — in Serbia and Montenegro. It is particularly alarming that the number of incidents perpetrated against the non-Serb population, including the Hungarian community, is on the rise. Hungary once again calls upon the Serbian authorities to take the necessary measures to stop and to prevent those violent acts, as well as to identify, prosecute and punish the perpetrators of serious crimes of physical abuse, as well as psychological threats and intimidation. We are looking forward to the results of the international monitoring currently under way. International protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is at the core of the foreign policy of Hungary. It is not only an expression of support for the universal values we feel so close to our hearts. It is also an essential prerequisite for preserving human dignity and enhancing liberty in our contemporary world. Freedom of the individual and full respect for the rights of human beings are matters well above the authority of any given State. In today’s world, we could hardly find a country where everyone speaks the same language or shares the same culture, beliefs and traditions. The presence of different national, ethnic, linguistic and religious groups within the borders of a country is not only an asset but also a source of social and cultural enrichment. It is our firm belief that the United Nations, as the most comprehensive multilateral organization, has a major role to play in the promotion of respect for, and the observance of, human rights, including the rights of national minorities. Against that background, the international community should continue to examine all possible ways to promote and establish an early-warning mechanism or a monitoring body dealing with minority-related situations. That should include the options of nominating a Special Rapporteur on minorities and elaborating a legally binding universal document to address shortcomings. Next year, with a major event, will be particularly important for the United Nations. In the course of addressing the burning issues on our agenda, we have to take a long, hard look at our tasks, including the review of the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, adopted by heads of State and Government in 2000. In our view, the review exercise 25 requires careful preparation, vision, political determination and the courage to act. Hungary is ready and willing to take part in this process.It is my great honour to represent the Salvadoran people as I address the United Nations, the supreme global forum, for the first time. I wish to convey my sincerest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to coordinate the work of this session. We also thank Mr. Julian Hunte for his outstanding leadership of the last session of the General Assembly. To the Secretary-General, we reiterate our admiration and our respect for his leadership in the fulfilment of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter at a time when the Organization is confronting growing and complex global challenges affecting international peace and security. Internal and international conflicts, terrorism and transnational organized crime, the persistence of extreme poverty, environmental deterioration and unresolved development problems are global in nature and require a harmonizing centre that can support the efforts of the international community to find shared and consensual solutions in order to establish an international order that responds to the needs and aspirations of humankind. That integrating centre must be the United Nations. We therefore support the establishment of the panel of eminent persons to make recommendations on collective security and the strengthening of multilateralism in order more effectively to confront global challenges. Irrational and criminal terrorist acts have highlighted the need for us to unite in our efforts and our determination, regardless of the differences that may exist among States, to unify our views and adopt collective action to find ways to confront the phenomenon and its causes, in the framework of respect for international law. The delegation of El Salvador reaffirms its full conviction that global terrorism is not an issue between cultures or nations. From that perspective, the Government of El Salvador has decided to respond to the United Nations appeal by participating in the work of reconstruction and humanitarian assistance in Iraq. By its very nature, our presence in Iraq deserves an additional explanation. We are not there for military reasons. Ours is a considered response to the appeal launched by this Organization for the international community to help in the transition phase leading to the full establishment of authority based on the free will of the Iraqi people, with absolute respect for its territorial integrity, its own culture and its unquestionable right to define its own destiny. El Salvador suffered a long internal war and succeeded, with the support of the international community and the United Nations, in achieving lasting peace. We believe that the time has come to make our testimony and accumulated experience, both during the political negotiations for peace and the peace-building phase, available to other peoples. El Salvador reiterates its firm and resolute support for peace-building and peacekeeping operations, above all because we have enjoyed the benefits of such an operation, but also, of course, because of their positive results in various regions of 14 the world. On the basis of that conviction, our country has signed a memorandum of understanding with the United Nations, the best evidence of El Salvador’s commitment to such activities, which are so necessary in today’s complex and unquiet world. We have presented a list of resources that are available to the world Organization as a basis for our participation in future operations, in addition to those in which we are already participating. In that context, in order to demonstrate our spirit of cooperation on these issues, I am pleased to announce my Government’s interest in submitting its candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council so as to make our accumulated experience available to this Organization. Since the successful conclusion of our internal conflict, El Salvador has focused its attention resolutely on human development. The Government I lead, by dint of a broad majority vote of the Salvadoran people on 1 June, is one of openness and inclusion, with a vision of national integration and service to the interests and aspirations of our people. Such vital questions as security, employment, the effective improvement of basic services and the productivity of our communities and regions are the top priorities of our governing programme. We are focusing on transforming national education, on reshaping public health care, on significantly strengthening the rule of law, on combating crime in all its manifestations and at all levels, on reactivating the economy and on making Salvadoran society internationally competitive. Insofar as we achieve greater progress domestically, we will be competitive externally. In addition, however, we are working on a social plan geared towards reducing extreme poverty in the next five years. To that end, we are undertaking a tax reform that will increase tax collection and reduce evasion, allowing us to obtain the additional funds necessary to implementing our social plan. We shall levy a special tax on tobacco, alcohol, weapons and ammunition in order to promote a special health care fund with which we will expand health assistance to the rural areas of our country and undermine the black market in those goods. In the approximately 100 days that we have been in office, we have undertaken important health reforms by extending medical coverage to the age of 12 for the children of workers who contribute to Salvadoran social security and by granting emergency paediatric services to almost 400,000 boys and girls. We know that no Government effort will be effective without the cooperation of all sectors in our country. We are therefore launching a mechanism of understanding with all our political and social forces. In that context, we have established an employment agreement that seeks solutions, together with private enterprise, for strengthening the agriculture, construction, tourism and micro-, small and medium- sized business sectors, with the aim of generating more jobs. One of the best mechanisms for increasing our development potential is investment in education. In that awareness, we have launched the National Education Plan 2021, which seeks to reinvigorate our vision of the future of education through short-, medium- and long-term programmes. We hope that our national effort will also enjoy international cooperation. That is why we were pleased by the decision taken by the Government of Spain to provide assistance for primary education. The most urgent of the challenges confronting Salvadoran society is that of providing security to our citizens. In order to meet that need, we recently established a rural police force, along with a uncompromising plan to eradicate delinquency in urban areas overrun by gangs. The plan also offers special programmes for young people who wish to abandon the path of crime. El Salvador unreservedly shares the interests expressed at the International Conference on Financing for Development. We reiterate our dedication to seeking alternative ways and means and renewed commitments to making the fight on poverty more effective — an objective that is interlinked with peace and security in the modern world. In that vein, we welcome the initiative of Brazil, France, Chile and Spain confirming the need, in the fight against hunger and poverty, for greater and more effective efforts to place stability and global security on a solid foundation. If we all apply our will and commitment, we can develop new programmes and identify innovative public policies that will allow us to achieve the Millennium Goals. 15 Throughout its history, El Salvador has been a country of emigration. The flow of emigration was intensified by the war, and today virtually one third of our population lives abroad. Maintaining and deepening links with the country of origin is one of the main policies of our administration. Our national reality requires us to integrate the views of Salvadorans abroad with local expectations. The economic impact of this phenomenon is decisive to our life as a nation, but equally or even more important is the sociological and cultural impact of the situation. The phenomenon of transculturization experienced by our society is changing El Salvador forever. The contribution of migrants to their countries of origin and to their host countries deserves special attention from the international community, and particularly from the specialized agencies of the United Nations system. The transfer of remittances is a key element in the mobilization of resources for the eradication of poverty and the attainment of the Millennium Goals. The reduction of the cost of remittances should be a concern of the international community. From that standpoint, I am pleased to express our great interest in participating actively in the high-level dialogue on international migration and development, to be held in 2006. We welcome the United States proposal to create a fund for democracy. In the same vein, El Salvador welcomes the General Assembly’s proclamation of 2005 as the International Year of Microcredit. The proclamation can promote the strengthening of micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent a broad spectrum of the social fabric and help sustain national progress. In today’s world, globalization has put us all on the map of international reality. It promotes the dynamic of strategic alliances in trade and all other fields, and makes it possible to build models for development by comparing them with other experiences. Gradually and in a balanced manner, we have decided to strengthen our links of cooperation with various developed countries. The prevailing regionalization makes us all dependent on one another. In the case of countries such as ours, the situation leads us to nurture our energies and creativity, open markets, promote financial flows, facilitate the transfer of technology and encourage competitiveness. These are major opportunities and challenges that we must all accept. While cooperation for development remains fundamental, El Salvador reiterates the urgent need for a system of multilateral trade that is open, fair, rule- based, foreseeable and non-discriminatory, in accordance with the objectives of the Millennium Declaration. In a world that is becoming increasingly globalized and therefore increasingly interdependent, economic phenomena affect us all in a chain reaction. The current international energy situation has a significant impact on the economies of our countries, with a negative effect on the dynamics of growth and progress. Thus, from this United Nations rostrum we strongly urge that we explore, as an organized community, not only short-term avenues for overcoming the crises, but also structural remedies that can help the most vulnerable countries, in particular. It is contradictory to talk about combating poverty and hunger while the consumer countries are paying such high prices for petroleum. The complex Palestinian-Israeli conflict is a source of enormous concern to our country, given the incessant violence, the lack of control over terrorist groups and the ever-growing difficulty of returning to dialogue and political understanding. Our country reiterates, as it has done consistently, its support for any effort and measure to open space for a negotiated political solution that takes into account the legitimate interests of the parties directly involved. As for the Republic of China on Taiwan, that is a case which the community of nations must examine in the light of international realities. Resolution 2758 (XXVI) of 1971 did not resolve the issue of the representation of the Taiwanese people in the United Nations. That nation has developed politically, economically and socially in an independent, free and democratic way. It has its own institutions and characteristics, just like any other State of the international community. However, Taiwan’s situation in the international community is exceptional, because its absence from this forum is a denial of the exercise of the rights that are recognized to other peoples and of the universal and democratic nature of our Organization. Our delegation therefore supports consideration of the exceptional situation of the population of the Republic of China on Taiwan and its eventual participation in this forum and other international organizations. 16 Our Organization has played, is playing and will continue to play a decisive role in maintaining the world’s healthy balance. Reality is changing constantly. Many things have been left behind and many things await us. Institutions in all areas and at all levels must evolve with the changing times. In that vein, we associate ourselves with those who are committed to the structural renewal of the United Nations. We believe that such reform must encompass the highest structures, including the Security Council. Every year, the nations of the world, through their representatives, attend this rendezvous with the destiny of the world. We have the responsibility to do nothing less than to build a better world for current and future generations. Every word, every gesture and every decision made or reached here must be aimed at that lofty purpose. Only if we combine our efforts can a new, safer, fairer, more peaceful and more sharing reality emerge. Together with all the nations represented here, El Salvador takes up the challenge of joining in that concert of constructive wills, in the confidence that the god of nations will illuminate and encourage us so that we may fulfil his will for peace and brotherhood in a world in which no one is left behind.Let me first congratulate Mr. Jean Ping on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session and wish him every success in this important position. I would also like to thank his predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his relentless efforts and leadership throughout the year. In May, the Czech Republic became a member of the European Union (EU). For the first time, we took part in the preparation of the EU statement presented here last week by the Foreign Minister of the Netherlands, as well as in shaping the EU priorities for the current General Assembly session. It goes without saying that we fully associate ourselves with those texts. We share the commitment of the EU to effective multilateralism, with the United Nations at its core. Indeed, the vision of a strong and truly universal United Nations is one of the fundamentals of Czech foreign policy. Security, or the lack of it, has emerged as the most challenging problem today. International terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, State failure or organized crime — these are the threats menacing all of us. Terrorism spares no one anywhere in the world. The brutality of the attacks and the increase in their number over the past year are frightening. It seems that the whole nature of terrorism is changing. While most earlier terrorists tried to target specific persons or institutions, with the aim of gaining the sympathy of the general public, today’s terrorists are solely intent on spreading fear and terror. Their target is the general public, each one of us, and the more killed the better. What can we expect of individuals who sacrifice unlimited numbers of their own people to a perverse ideology? Their acquisition of weapons of mass destruction would result in a deadly combination. Absolute disregard for life by these “new” terrorists has also given rise to their most dangerous tool, the ideological suicide bomber. Previously, terrorists had to devote most of their energy to planning escape routes and concealing themselves; a suicide bomber, on the other hand, needs only to concentrate on how best to hit and to destroy his target. The diffusion of targets and the perpetrators’ absolute resolve mean that terrorist threats have completely permeated our public and private spaces, each area of which has become a defence site. All this could ultimately lead to very disagreeable restrictions on certain freedoms and rights. And this takes us full circle. If we are lax in understanding our roots and values, and if we do not have a comprehensive grasp of human rights, we could find that, in the end, we are unable to cope with the uneasy balance between security and freedom. I do not want to speculate about cause and effect. It is not the case that a terrorist attack is a reaction, an inappropriate reaction, to something. Terrorists’ ideology is aggressive and expansive, and they do not recognize terms such as “conciliation” or “coexistence”. Therefore, each offer we make to negotiate, each sign of unwillingness to defend ourselves, is seen by them as further proof of our weakness and, by extension, of their “right” to assume control of declining society. In the fight against terrorism, nobody can remain neutral. The United Nations has to pave the way for this fight at the global level. To be sure, the Counter- Terrorism Committee has done an outstanding job in overseeing the implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and in facilitating universal acceptance of the United Nations Conventions on terrorism; but certainly more can and should be done. The true tests of our ability to cooperate are Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East. Iraq continues to be of utmost concern to the international community. The full transfer of power to the Iraqi Interim Government is a historic moment for the country and an essential step on the road towards a free, prosperous and secure country. The road will, no doubt, be long and winding. Without the elimination of terrorist activities and the stabilization of the security situation, political transition and economic recovery will remain elusive. 5 Last summer, United Nations employees in Iraq paid the highest price for their commitment to help those in need. Now, the Organization has new tasks before it, including those connected with preparations for free elections in January 2005. However, a greater engagement of the United Nations requires a more secure environment and stronger support from the international community. The Czech Republic’s contribution is focused mainly on building up Iraqi security forces and helping to finance the protection of the United Nations presence in Iraq. Iraq, however, must not divert our attention from other major security concerns, including Afghanistan, the Middle East, Africa and the Balkans. In all these conflicts, my country seeks to play a constructive role, contributing in various ways to the related efforts of the international community. Thus, in Afghanistan, the Czech Republic is participating in the stabilization process and the rooting out of terrorism; in Africa, it is taking part in peacekeeping operations; in Kosovo, we have our largest military contingent abroad serving in the Kosovo Force and we intend to contribute troops to the new EU-led mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we believe that the role of the international community lies in providing a trusted frame of reference. It is crucial that both parties to the conflict make a sincere effort to implement their obligations in order to achieve the vision of two States living side by side in peace and security and in a peaceful and secure neighbourhood. Last but not least, Africa has to remain on our agenda. Ten years after the genocide in Rwanda, another part of Africa is suffering from grave ethnic violence. In Darfur, people are dying every day, and in the Great Lakes region the situation is not much better. The international community must not turn away from those tragedies. So far I have focused mainly on what we call hard threats to international security. But I do not want to create an impression that other problems plaguing the contemporary world are of lesser importance. Those more traditional problems, or soft threats, also continue to deserve our undiminished attention. There is no question of these two threats competing for our response; there is no question of forgetting one in favour of the other. That is why the Czech Republic, as an emerging donor country, supports the strengthening of multilateral development assistance within the United Nations system, as well as close cooperation among the United Nations funds and programmes and the Bretton Woods institutions. That is why we support and strive to contribute to activities undertaken in pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals and other internationally agreed development targets. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms remains a priority of Czech foreign policy. Together with the rest of the EU, we place special emphasis on the abolition of the death penalty, the fight against torture — in fact, just a few days ago we signed the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment — the protection of children in armed conflicts and, of course, respect for the activities of human rights defenders who, unfortunately, continue to face difficult conditions in a number of countries, such as Belarus, Myanmar and Cuba, among others. Convinced that all people have equal rights and dignity, the Czech Republic is concerned about recent attempts to create a human being through cloning. We therefore concur with those calling for the swift adoption of a legally binding instrument at the universal level regulating the cloning of human beings. Faced with the aforementioned challenges, the United Nations has to change. Of course, United Nations reform seems to be on everyone’s agenda. There are, perhaps, too many reform processes going on in parallel or partially overlapping. To achieve genuine reform, however, we simply have to keep the pressure on; the United Nations must continue constantly to monitor itself and to continue its pursuit of improvement. The Czech Republic considers itself a reform- minded country. It is an advocate of revitalization of the General Assembly, strengthening of the United Nations and reform and enlargement of the Security Council. For many years, we have been actively involved in those processes, including through the Czech presidency of the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We have no vested interest in these reforms except the better functioning and greater authority of the whole United Nations. The Czech Republic will continue to support inevitable reform measures, including enlargement of the Security Council in both categories of membership. In 6 particular, we support the aspiration of Germany and Japan to permanent seats, as well as the allocation of a further three new permanent seats for Africa, Asia and Latin America. We greatly appreciate the reform efforts that the Secretary-General has made so far, and we expect his guidance to continue in the years to come. We eagerly await the report of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, which should place United Nations reform in a wider context of major global threats and challenges. We are determined to play an active role in finding multilateral and United Nations-based solutions to numerous grave problems of the contemporary world. An expression of that commitment and determination is our candidature for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council in 2008-2009.In today's globalized world, security and prosperity are inseparable. There can be no lasting peace in any part of the world when millions of people suffer every day from deprivation, poverty, armed conflicts and terrorism. There is no human dignity when even the most basic human rights of millions of people are violated every day. There is no equality as long as there is discrimination because of gender, race or beliefs. There is no fairness when international and domestic rules favour the rich and powerful and oppress the poor and weak. We, the family of nations, cannot remain on the sidelines. We need multilateral tools to meet the challenges of a globalized world. We must develop and enhance our multilateral institutions. This applies especially to the United Nations, whose position in promoting peace and development is unique. Member States have given the Security Council the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. The members of the Security Council ó and especially its permanent members ó must display a common will and compromise on narrowly defined national interests. The other nations must then show support for the Security Councilís position and its decisions. Before the war in Iraq, however, the international community failed. Conflicting national interests prevailed over common will. There was not enough commitment to act within the boundaries of Security Council resolutions. Some nations resorted to the use of force, which was not in accordance with international law. But now we must turn our eyes and energies to the future. We need to restore security and stability in Iraq so that the building of democracy and prosperity can begin in earnest. Finland is participating in the training of Iraqi police forces and we have decided to contribute Ä1 million for security for staff members of the United Nations system working in Iraq. There is no sustainable alternative to multilateralism. The international community must recognize its collective responsibility. We must be able to intervene and prevent situations in which human rights are seriously violated. We cannot afford to let the Darfur situation get out of hand. The United Nations and the international community must be able to act in time, effectively and as long as needed. I thank the Secretary-General for his promise of action today. Globalization could and should be a force for a brighter future for all people. However, globalization as we experience it today falls far short of this promise and is ethically and politically unsustainable. To implement the Millennium Declaration, we need to make globalization more fair and attentive to peopleís needs and aspirations. This requires more coherence, closer and better international cooperation and stronger democratic States that work for fairness at home and abroad. We must act without delay in order to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. We have agreed on additional resources, we have agreed on local ownership and we have agreed on good governance. Let us deliver on these promises. The poor of the world cannot wait. We must make the 0.7 per cent target on development assistance a reality. We need to give open-minded consideration to new and innovative 4 proposals for additional development funding, including international taxation. One concrete indication of the desire to implement the Millennium Declaration is the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization. The Commission has drafted numerous recommendations which the United Nations system should study before the review of the Millennium Declaration next autumn. Tanzania and Finland will present an initiative for this session of the General Assembly to deal with the Commissionís recommendations in the United Nations. The United Nations has a key role today and tomorrow in promoting peace, security, economic prosperity, social welfare, human rights and the rule of law. Finland gives full support to the broad reform of the United Nations that is now underway. The time is ripe for a reform of the Security Council and the expansion of its membership so that it better corresponds to todayís world. We also need to vitalize the General Assembly and give the Economic and Social Council the role envisaged in the United Nations Charter. I hope that when we meet here at United Nations Headquarters a year from now, we can proudly note that we have taken concrete steps towards a better world. This is a responsibility that all of us share and I know it requires a lot of work from all of us, but, dear colleagues, let us do it.At the outset, allow me, on behalf of the Vietnamese delegation, to warmly congratulate you, Sir, an eminent son of Gabon and of Africa, with which Viet Nam has always enjoyed warm sentiments and brotherly relations, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I am confident that, under your able guidance, this session will be crowned with fine success. I also take this opportunity to express our high 29 appreciation for the tremendous efforts and contributions made by the previous President, Mr. Julian Hunte, to the work of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. As the fifth year of the twenty-first century approaches, we all cannot help asking ourselves whether the world is a safer, fairer or — in a more comprehensive assessment — better place for our peoples to live in. With all that has happened over the last year, unfortunately, the answer cannot be affirmative. The recent barbaric and inhuman massacre of hostages at the school in Beslan, Russia, its scale and the manner in which it was committed show that terrorism has become more brutal than ever and that it is spreading to almost every corner of the world and sparing no nation. At this forum, we wish to reaffirm the position of the Vietnamese Government denouncing every act of terrorism. We urge the international community to further strengthen cooperation with a view to eliminating terrorism from our civilized world. We have more than once stated our fundamental position that, if it is to enjoy broad support and participation and therefore be effective, the fight against terrorism must be pursued in conformity with the provisions of the United Nations Charter and free from selectivity and double standards. A serious review would reveal that this is not a situation we can claim to have today. For a second time in two years, last April, in pursuit of their secessionist aim of creating a so-called independent State of Degar, Kok Ksor and the organization he created, the Montagnard Foundation, staged a violent terrorist riot in the central highlands of Viet Nam, seriously threatening the security and territorial integrity of our country. And still today, they continue to enjoy unjustified protection by certain forces. While encouraged by the trend of enhanced cooperation and friendship among countries and regions, we are equally concerned about conflicts and other threats mounting in different areas, especially in the Middle East and Africa. The Iraqi people are yet to know genuine peace. Non-traditional security threats, such as narcotics, the spread of diseases, transnational organized crime and environmental degradation, continue to affect adversely the life of peoples and the development of nations. The year 2005 is approaching. We are to review the realization of the Millennium Development Goals. An undeniable fact is that the window of opportunity for the economic development and integration of developing countries has become narrower, while the gap between the rich countries and the poor countries and that between the rich and the poor within countries are increasingly wider. According to a recent report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the gap between the world’s richest and poorest countries at present is 74-fold. That being the reality, what is discouraging is that the proportion of resources being utilized for economic development is negatively imbalanced. Last year, for example, military expenditures by rich countries amounted to more than $700 billion, which was 10 times higher than the total amount of their official development assistance for developing nations. Instead of receiving a stronger commitment to development assistance, developing countries have fallen victim to unfair practices in international trade. A case in point is the application of protectionist measures under the form of anti-dumping duties imposed on Viet Nam’s catfish and shrimp, as well as similar products of other developing countries. The unfair imposition of anti-dumping duties on Viet Nam’s shrimp export by the United States has inflicted losses on 3.5 million poor Vietnamese farmers who earn their living directly or indirectly from the shrimp industry. That not only runs counter to the principles of the World Trade Organization (WTO), but also undermines the poverty-reduction efforts of the Vietnamese Government, as well as the results of technical assistance provided by such international bodies as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank and various United Nations agencies. In a world where injustice and uncertainties remain, it is both a desire of all nations and a primary task of the international community to build a more peaceful and fairer environment conducive to development and prosperity. Such an environment can be created only if all nations strictly comply with the fundamental principles of the United Nations Charter and international law, of which respect for the national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of nations are most important. As the world’s largest multilateral 30 Organization, the United Nation is the sole entity fully capable of creating that new environment. Viet Nam holds that, to fulfil that crucial role, the United Nations should be reformed in a way that will improve its effectiveness and democracy. We highly appreciate the ongoing efforts of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change and hope that the Panel will be able to put forth recommendations that can serve as a good basis for member States to hold in- depth discussions with a view to arriving at concrete measures to be implemented soon, thus meeting the expectations of the world public at large of a new, effective and more democratic United Nations. In that connection, Viet Nam is of the view that, if the Security Council’s democracy, effectiveness and transparency are to be enhanced and if it is to truly act on behalf of all United Nations Members, as stated in the Charter, both the non-permanent and the permanent membership of the Security Council should be enlarged and developing countries more adequately represented in that important body. We wish to reiterate our support for Japan, Germany, India and other capable countries from different continents becoming permanent members of the Security Council once it is enlarged. A more peaceful, fairer and more favourable environment for development requires international economic relations based on equality, mutual benefits, shared responsibilities and the realization of commitments. Developed countries should seriously seek to fulfil their commitments to allocating 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product to official development assistance; provide broader, faster and deeper debt relief to poor nations; finance development projects; and create fairer and more favourable conditions for developing nations to access the world market and to join the WTO. Viet Nam holds that regional and interregional cooperation and new partnerships between developed and developing countries are effective measures for putting into place fair and favourable conditions for development and for making sure that all nations will benefit from the current process of globalization. We welcome the initiative on a new strategic partnership between Asia and Africa that is being discussed among countries of the two continents. The initiative, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, is highly commendable. Viet Nam attaches great importance to promoting South-South cooperation, especially with African countries, as manifested in the “two plus one” formula, in which Viet Nam and an African country, with the participation of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, cooperate in agricultural development. With a view to increasing cooperation with and assistance to developing nations, we call for an end to unjust embargoes, especially the unilateral embargo against Cuba, which has been in place for years now and caused untold difficulties and suffering for the Cuban people. It is Viet Nam’s consistent policy to support the just cause of the Palestinian people in the struggle for their inalienable rights. We call on the parties concerned to refrain from and cease acts of violence and actively to participate in the implementation of the road map for peace towards a just and lasting solution that takes into account the interests of the parties concerned for the sake of peace and stability in the Middle East. Restoring peace and security and reconstructing Iraq are pressing needs of the people of that country at present. Viet Nam is concerned about the escalating violence against innocent civilians. We hope that the situation in Iraq will soon be stabilized so that the Iraqi people can focus on their national reconstruction and development. The United Nations should play a more active role in Iraq, commensurate with its mandate. Viet Nam attended the conference on the reconstruction of Iraq and is willing to involve itself more actively in that process. In our national reform and development process over the past 18 years, we have surmounted enormous challenges to realize the goal of a rich people, a strong country, a just, democratic and civilized society. Encouraging results have been recorded. Over the past 10 years, the average annual growth of our gross domestic product has been maintained at as high as 7.4 per cent, with the number of poor households reduced by half. Special importance has been given to people- centred development. We are resolved to sustain high economic growth in combination with the development of culture, the advancement of social progress and equality, the improvement of living conditions for the people and, most important, the achievement of the goal of becoming an industrialized country by 2020. Given our substantial initial achievements and the appropriate path on which we have embarked, the 31 United Nations Development Programme, in its third report on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals in Viet Nam in 2003, assessed that Viet Nam is capable of overcoming its challenges to reach the Goals set in the Millennium Declaration. We wish to take this opportunity to express our deep gratitude to the United Nations agencies for their effective assistance. The United Nations agencies in Viet Nam have taken important steps to further enhance cooperation effectiveness, especially those within the United Nations Development Assistance Framework. We are committed to continuing to work with them in striving for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. In its reform process, Viet Nam pursues a foreign policy of openness, independence, sovereignty and the diversification and multilateralization of relations, and is willing to be a friend to and reliable partner of all countries striving for independence, peace, development and cooperation. Increasing regional and interregional cooperation is a consistent policy and an inseparable component of the Vietnamese Government’s policy towards greater international integration. Viet Nam is actively participating in economic cooperation activities within the frameworks of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), the Asia-Pacific Conference on Electron Microscopy and the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Within ASEAN, Viet Nam works closely with other ASEAN countries to promote regional cooperation through such initiatives as the creation of the ASEAN security community, the ASEAN economic community and the ASEAN socio-cultural community, the Initiative for ASEAN Integration, the initiative on sub-Mekong regional cooperation, and development triangles. ASEAN attaches great importance to promoting its relationship with dialogue partners. Active steps are being taken to establish free-trade areas between ASEAN and China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, and to promote closer economic partnership with the United States, the European Union, Russia and India, including free-trade areas. Viet Nam believes that multifaceted cooperation in South-East Asia will make important contributions to building a peaceful, fair and favourable environment for regional countries. As evidence of its determination to participate more actively in international and interregional cooperation frameworks, Viet Nam is going to host the Fifth Asia-Europe Summit in Hanoi this October and the APEC Summit in 2006. We are standing for election to a non-permanent seat in the Security Council for the term 2008-2009. In undertaking those important efforts, we look forward to enjoying the continued support and cooperation of the international community. Our global village longs for a more peaceful, stable and favourable environment for development and shared prosperity. Striving together, we will turn that dream into reality.At the outset, I would like to say that I feel very honoured and privileged to participate for the first time in the work of the General Assembly and to represent the Republic of Moldova at this rostrum. On behalf of the Moldovan delegation, I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your well deserved election. I am confident that your vast experience and diplomatic skills will help the Assembly at the current session to fulfil its important tasks. I join other speakers in expressing our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, for the dedicated and effective manner in which he guided the work of the previous session. This has indeed been a difficult year for the Organization, with serious crises occurring in various parts of the world. Increasingly, the international community is faced with conflicts within States, the painful manifestations of which have been seen in conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, the North Caucasus and elsewhere. We are all preoccupied by the implications and consequences of the crisis in Iraq. The Republic of Moldova considers that the United Nations should be engaged in a more consistent way in helping that country to stabilize its internal situation and to embark on the path towards recovery, development and democracy. Earlier, in Spain and Turkey and, most recently, in the Russian Federation, we have seen how terrorism — the scourge of the twenty-first century — indiscriminately strikes the innocent, including children. We strongly believe that terrorist acts must be considered crimes against humanity. The Republic of Moldova strongly condemns all terrorist acts, for which there can be no excuse or justification. We pay homage to the victims of that violence. Precisely due to the challenges faced, the Republic of Moldova fully supports the ongoing reform process of the United Nations system. A key aspect of that process is the reform of the Security Council. Too often, that principal organ has been accused of failures in the maintenance of international peace and security. It is therefore essential to make it more efficient in the discharge of its primary responsibility. In our view, the efficiency of the Security Council can be achieved by improving its representativeness, legitimacy, transparency and accountability and by restricting the right of veto to issues of substance, as provided for by the United Nations Charter. The Republic of Moldova shares the view that the reform of the United Nations system will be successful only if the reform of the Security Council is followed by the reform of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. We support the momentum created for revitalizing the Assembly and strengthening the coordinating functions of the Economic and Social Council in the social and economic fields. Effective coordination among the three main bodies is essential if we want to address comprehensively the urgent problems of today’s world. In the new circumstances, the United Nations should continue to improve its capacity in the field of peacekeeping, which is an important instrument for the maintenance of international peace and security. We support actions aimed at enhancing the United Nations rapid deployment capabilities through its standby arrangements. I would like to mention that Moldova has committed itself to contribute troops to the United Nations Standby Arrangements System through yesterday’s signing at the Department of Peacekeeping Operations of a formal document in that regard. The Republic of Moldova is already present in United Nations peacekeeping efforts, with military observers and staff officers in United Nations missions in Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire. We are determined to continue to support United Nations activities in this area. It is crucial to further strengthen the United Nations anti-terrorist legal framework. The Republic of Moldova fully supports the current efforts to conclude a convention for the suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism and a comprehensive international convention on international terrorism. I would like to commend the Secretary-General for his many initiatives to make the Organization more effective. The creation of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change is another important step in that direction. Like other Member States, the Republic of Moldova looks forward to concrete recommendations from the Panel on how to tackle 13 contemporary threats, including new ones such as intra-State conflicts, terrorism and separatism. We cannot realistically expect to win the war against international terrorism as long as regional and internal conflicts remain unsolved and their root causes not properly addressed. Recently, terrorism has increasingly been merging with separatism. Many terrorists and international criminals have found a safe haven in the regions affected by internal conflicts and secessionist tendencies. In this context, I would like to add my voice to those who have repeatedly warned in recent years of the danger posed by aggressive separatism. Separatism provides fertile ground for various extremist forces and terrorist groups. It has become one of the main sources of internal conflicts and regional instability. To ignore it would have tragic consequences for numerous countries of a multi-ethnic composition. Regretfully, separatism continues to be the main obstacle to consolidating the independence and statehood of the Republic of Moldova. Over the years, the Republic of Moldova has systematically informed the relevant international organizations of the danger that the political conflict in its eastern region poses to regional and international peace and security. The settlement of the conflict has become the country’s absolute priority. The initiatives put forward by the Republic of Moldova in recent years reflect the determination and political will of Moldovan authorities to resolve this political conflict peacefully, on the basis of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. In particular, I would like to underline the initiative of the President of the Republic of Moldova, Mr. Vladimir Voronin, on the establishment of the Joint Constitutional Commission charged with drafting a new constitution. Despite the constructive approach by Moldovan authorities in their dialogue with the self-appointed Transdniestrian leaders and other participants in the multilateral framework of negotiations, developments have demonstrated the inefficiency of these negotiations. It has also become obvious that the separatist leaders do not sincerely wish for the country’s reintegration. In this regard, I should mention, among other things, the recent closure of Moldovan schools that use Latin script, the inhumane treatment of children and ethnic discrimination. This region remains an area rife with the illegal manufacture and traffick of arms. Given the porousness of the Transdniestrian section of the Moldovan- Ukrainian border, there are no guarantees that the illegally manufactured or trafficked armaments will not reach other conflicts zones in the future. We are also deeply concerned about the human rights situation in the area controlled by separatist forces. The separatist regime has systematically violated most human rights, including the right of association, the right to a fair trial, freedom from torture, freedom of movement and, especially, the right to education. All of these human rights violations hinder the democratization process within the region. At the same time, we have encountered a biased attitude on the part of the involved parties, reflected in the support for smuggling and in the obvious violations of existing bilateral and international agreements. We deem it necessary to modify the components of the peacekeeping mechanism and to replace it with a new one under an international mandate. Considering that the interests of regional stability and security require an objective and impartial approach, it is necessary to ensure full respect for international law and democratic standards. More importantly, any geopolitical and geo-economic interest in maintaining the status-quo needs to be abandoned. Strict implementation of the decisions taken at the 1999 Istanbul Summit of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe would harmoniously fit such an approach. Also, as has already been mentioned during the current debate, we must exclude the practice of applying double standards when dealing with internal conflicts and the means for their settlement. The reintegration of the country and consolidation of democratic values within its entire territory are essential conditions for the European integration of the Republic of Moldova. It is in this context that the President of the Republic of Moldova has launched an initiative on a stability and security pact for Moldova. This document is aimed at ensuring consensus among the parties concerned, in order to guarantee the development of an independent, sovereign and integral Moldovan State. We believe that holding an international conference on this issue should be the next step in initiating the debate on the measures to follow. This situation demonstrates the international character of the problem, as well as the inefficiency of existing regional settlement mechanisms. 14 Today, the main challenges for the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields stem from world trends, such as globalization and increasing ecological interdependence, and from persistent factors such as widespread poverty and severe social inequalities between and within States. They should be addressed by a strengthened global partnership between industrialized countries, developing countries, countries with transitional economies and intergovernmental institutions. The Millennium Development Goals remain the most significant objectives agreed to by the international community, as they cover the areas of major concern for the peoples of the world. It is therefore of utmost importance to achieve the Goals, as well as other specific developmental targets set subsequently by several major United Nations conferences in the economic and social fields. In this context, we welcome the decision of the General Assembly, adopted at its last session, to hold in September 2005 a high-level meeting that will undertake a comprehensive review of the progress made in the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, including the Millennium Development Goals, as well as a review of the integrated and coordinated implementation of the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits. This review is necessary, given the overall slow pace of implementation. We share the concerns expressed in this respect by many States, in particular by the countries sponsoring the world leaders’ New York Declaration on the Action against Hunger and Poverty, which was adopted on 20 September. Like them, we believe that if resolute and urgent action is not taken, the Millennium Development Goals will not be reached by 2015 in some regions of the world. We should not forget, in this context, about the grave social and economic problems that affect crisis- stricken countries and countries with special needs, in particular landlocked countries. Creating an enabling environment for sustainable development is a challenge for them and, therefore, they should be further assisted by the United Nations system and the donor community. I would like to reiterate, in conclusion, my country’s commitment to the Organization and its willingness to cooperate with other Member States in order to achieve the noble goals and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter.I first addressed the General Assembly in the year 2000. The millennium year was a time of great hope, reflected in the outcome of the Millennium Summit. World leaders committed the peoples of the planet to a new beginning in which the dawn of the twenty-first century would mark a break from the past, with a new sharing of burdens, and a new common dedication to peace and human progress. Today the light of that new dawn is obscured by the dark clouds of war, terror, ethnic violence and continuing abuse of human rights. Twelve months ago and again this week, the Secretary-General pointed out that the Organization is at a fork in the road and that we have to decide on the way forward. Much work has been undertaken since the Secretary-General laid down that challenge. The High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change is working on its report. I am pleased to recall that the European Union (EU) made a detailed submission to the Panel, drawn up during Ireland's recent presidency of the Union. We also took a decision to mainstream the issue of effective multilateralism in the Unionís discussions with other regional groups. We await the Panel's report and the Secretary- Generalís recommendations that will follow. In his address on Tuesday, the Secretary-General expressed the hope that when the heads of State and Government meet next year to review progress on the Millennium Declaration they will be ready to take bold decisions. They must, because the longer we linger at the fork in the road, the more difficult will be the road ahead. We cannot afford to postpone action. More and more citizens of the world are questioning whether the United Nations has the capacity, or even the will, to prevent conflict and protect the vulnerable from injustice. They are becoming increasingly disillusioned with an Organization which either cannot take decisions or whose decisions are ignored with impunity. They see the politics of the lowest common denominator in operation, with strong and sensible draft resolutions watered down to mere platitudes. They hear the United Nations being denigrated by those who make a virtue of their determination to put national interests above all other considerations. They fear that the Organization is no longer driven by the determination and idealism of the founding fathers. My Prime Minister, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern, made clear last year, when he addressed the General Assembly, where the fault lies. It lies with us, the Governments of the Member States. We have a strong and much respected Secretary-General in Kofi Annan. We have brave and dedicated officials. Many have put their lives on the line for the Organization and what it stands for. Some have made the ultimate sacrifice. United Nations staff deserve better protection in the future. It is time for the Governments of Member States to act. We need, as the Secretary-General put it, to seek common solutions to common problems. That will require political will and effective structures. Neither one on its own will suffice. The essential requirement is a more effective system of collective security. Such a system requires the unique legitimacy offered by an effective United Nations and its Charter. It is clear that the composition of the Security Council no longer accurately reflects global geopolitical realities. In Irelandís view, a modest and regionally balanced increase in its membership, both in the permanent and non-permanent categories, is justified. Increased representation from the developing world would enhance its legitimacy, and thereby its effectiveness. But a more effective Security Council will need more than a change in structures. There has to be a change in attitudes. Those States that sit on the Security Council have a responsibility to rise above national or regional interests and act in the wider interests of mankind. That is an obligation that rests on each and every member of the Council. But those who either assert or aspire to positions of world leadership - and there is no shortage of candidates - bear a particular responsibility to act in the global interest. Putting national interests first is not an effective answer to the challenges that confront us. It may be a clichÈ to say that our planet is shrinking, but that does not make it any less true. While most of us continue to wish to organize and govern ourselves primarily within the framework of the nation-State, we must recognize that technological development and economic 37 integration are impairing the effectiveness of the nation-State as a defensive bastion. Power and influence must be used in the interests of the international community as a whole, rather than for the pursuit of narrow, short-term interests. States and regions have broad and varied interests, both individual and collective. Our system must accommodate and reconcile those interests. Otherwise we are doomed to division between those who would impose hegemony and those who would resist it. In his report on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, the Secretary-General has warned that the world is falling short in its performance towards the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. In sub-Saharan Africa especially, many countries are caught in a poverty trap and face the crippling challenges of unsustainable debt and HIV/AIDS, often compounded by instability. Ireland fully recognizes the seriousness of the shortfall in development funding that faces us, which is presently estimated at Ä50 billion per year. The best means of bridging that gap is for donor nations to recommit themselves to reaching the United Nations target for official development assistance of 0.7 per cent of gross national product. The Irish Government remains committed to that goal. Ireland, which has increased its official development assistance very substantially in recent years, will continue working actively with its developing country partners to build a strong global partnership for development. Economic and social development is the means by which the worldís poorer countries can be lifted out of poverty. An open international trading regime aimed at facilitating investment is an integral part of our multilateral system, and fair market access is an essential part of that. Some developing countries estimate that, in a best-case scenario, a successful outcome to the Doha Round could help raise up to 500 million people out of extreme poverty. Fairer international trading arrangements are imperative if we are to address the problems of underdevelopment. Ireland and its European Union partners are determined not to be found wanting in the task of bringing the Doha Round of multilateral trade negotiations, finally, to a conclusion, with an agreement that meets the essential concerns of all sides. Over the past year we have once again seen that the failure of State institutions is a major source of conflict and human misery. The responsibility for protecting people from conflict and the effects of conflict, and from humanitarian catastrophe, lies primarily with the Governments concerned. However, it has been well demonstrated that events within a particular country can threaten international peace and security and spread misery far beyond its borders. Where Governments are unable or unwilling to take the necessary steps to prevent catastrophe in their own country, I believe that the international community has responsibilities to protect in those circumstances. It is increasingly evident that instability very frequently arises from situations where human rights are abused or denied. The abuse of human rights is also at the root of poverty and underdevelopment. Respect for human rights, on the other hand, is an essential element of good governance, and must be at the centre of efforts to prevent conflict, and of post-conflict reconstruction. Presently, 40 per cent of conflicts that appear to have been resolved break out again within five years. We simply must do better in identifying emerging problems sooner. We also need to put in place policies and structures that are effective within a new, enforceable legal framework. I hope, therefore, that the High-level Panel will address the serious questions involved in international intervention, and put forward recommendations that will act as a basis for consensus. We trust that they will also give full and careful consideration to the policies and structures that we need in order to carry out our responsibilities towards States and societies at risk of instability. Any such structures must facilitate a sustained engagement with those States, to ensure that they receive whatever assistance is needed - political, humanitarian and economic - to avert instability or a return to conflict. In addressing those problems on the basis of the report of the High-level Panel, let us not sacrifice substance on the altar of process. Ireland welcomes the increasing role of regional and subregional organizations in crisis management, under the overall authority of the Security Council. The European Union is engaged in developing its role in conflict prevention and crisis management, while fully recognizing the central role and authority of the United Nations. I am pleased to state that during Irelandís recent presidency of the European Union, important progress was achieved in implementing the Joint Declaration on United Nations-European Union Cooperation in Crisis Management. It was agreed in 38 June, during our presidency, that the European Union will make a rapid response capability available, and at the service of the United Nations. That will take effect on an initial basis in 2005, with the full complement of 1,500 troops being ready and available by 2007. The efforts of the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States in crisis management have been particularly valuable and deserve support. The African Unionís involvement in Darfur, where it currently has 120 monitors with a protection force of 300, is an extremely positive development. It is fully supported by the European Union, including through the African Peace Facility, established during Irelandís recent presidency of the Union. The African Union is planning to augment its contingent in Sudan, where it is estimated that a force of at least 5,000 may be necessary to assure a secure environment for the people of Darfur. The European Union is ready to increase its backing for the African Unionís effort accordingly. Whatever political difficulties may have arisen in Darfur, the people there did not deserve to suffer massacre, rape and famine, or to see their villages and crops destroyed and their livestock driven off. When the depredations of the ruthless militias were unleashed upon them, they looked in vain for the even-handed protection of their Government. I want to recognize the efforts of United Nations agencies and non-governmental organizations ó including Irish organizations such as GOAL, Concern and TrÛcaire ó that responded so quickly and generously to the humanitarian crisis in Darfur. The dedication of humanitarian aid workers must also be applauded. The humanitarian needs in Darfur still remain immense. I appeal for continued support from the international community to meet the funding shortfall. Ireland has contributed almost $6 million in Government-funded aid so far this year to assist the humanitarian effort there through United Nations agencies as well as through Irish and international non- governmental organizations. The Irish people have been greatly moved by the suffering in Darfur and have been generous in providing additional, non-government financial support for the relief effort. I also wish to pay tribute to the leadership of the Secretary-General in insisting on an appropriate response from the Security Council. I welcome the recent adoption by the Security Council of resolution 1564 (2004), although it is a matter of regret and bewilderment to many that the resolution did not receive the unanimous backing of Council members. I hope that the Council will now unite in seeking to assert its will and bring an end to a situation that is an affront to humanity. I urge the authorities in the Sudan to fulfil, with the utmost urgency, the obligations that have been imposed on them by the Security Council. They must cooperate closely with the monitors deployed by the African Union. They must ensure that the Janjaweed militia are brought under control and disarmed and that persons responsible for crimes and serious violations of human rights are brought to justice. And they must ensure that secure conditions are restored so that people can return voluntarily to their homes. I also urge all parties in the Abuja talks, including the rebel groups, to show flexibility and goodwill so that the underlying problems of Darfur can be resolved in a peaceful manner. Once again, we meet in the General Assembly Hall under the shadow of terrorism. The recent appalling images from Beslan provide a further emphatic demonstration of the moral bankruptcy of terrorism. The fact that those attacks targeted innocent children, along with the consequent trauma caused to children worldwide who saw the torn bodies of the children and mothers of Beslan on their television screens, make them all the more heinous. They reinforce, if reinforcement were needed, the absolute duty of Member States of the United Nations to cooperate effectively in identifying and bringing to justice those who plan, direct, finance, facilitate and carry out terrorist acts. Terrorist acts are always reprehensible, and those who carry them out bear full responsibility for them. That is true irrespective of any underlying factors that might exist, such as national or civil conflict or oppressive economic or social conditions. We must show determination to confront and face down terrorists when they test our resolve through their involvement in heinous acts of violence designed to terrorize the public into conceding to their distorted view of the world. But we also have to be smart to win. Terrorism can rarely be defeated by exclusively military or security means, although those means are obviously a very necessary component in the fight 39 against terrorism. It is necessary, at the same time, to address the root causes of terrorism. I made that point when I addressed the General Assembly in the aftermath of the atrocities of 11 September, and I make no apologies for repeating it today. Let there be no misunderstanding. I offer no excuses for terrorism. Terrorism is evil. But it is my strong belief that people are not born evil. At a certain point in their lives, something - perhaps a particular event or the experience of indoctrination - causes them to embrace evil. To seek to address that root cause is not to be soft on terrorism, it is the intelligent way to attack terrorism. Terrorism tests the effectiveness of our national and collective security systems, but it also tests the quality of our institutions, including our systems of justice, and the strength of our values. As we seek to protect ourselves, we must ensure that those institutions remain strong, that democratic values are not undermined, that our systems of justice are not compromised and that our struggle is conducted in full respect for international law and human rights norms. If we fail to do that, any success we achieve over terrorists will be at the expense of the way of life we seek to protect. The people of Israel and Palestine continue to suffer from violence that is as futile as it is tragic. The root cause of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a struggle over land. The land must be shared by agreement arrived at through negotiation between the parties to the conflict. The continuing unilateral expansion of settlements and the construction and maintenance of the separation barrier on the West Bank will make the conflict more difficult to resolve. The entire international community - particularly Israelís friends ó need to send that clear and unambiguous message to the Israeli Government and the people of Israel. Ireland acknowledges the right, indeed the responsibility, of the Israeli Government to protect its people, including, if it so wishes, by a security fence along its recognized borders. However, the building of the fence in the West Bank serves to divide Palestinian communities and creates severe hardship for them. It will also serve to perpetuate the so-called facts on the ground, and make it more difficult to reach a final settlement. The advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice has given clear guidance on the fence that should be given careful consideration by those whose policies and actions it addresses. The Palestinian Authority must also assume its responsibilities under the road map, notwithstanding the difficulties it faces. Effective and responsible leadership is required. The Palestinian people can best achieve their sovereignty by restoring national discipline and rejecting the path of violence. Ireland, in common with its EU partners, continues to believe that the only way to reach a comprehensive settlement of the conflict is through the Quartet road map. In the Tullamore Declaration, issued during Irelandís recent presidency of the European Union, EU ministers welcomed the expressed intention of Prime Minister Sharon to withdraw from Gaza and acknowledged the impetus that such a withdrawal could give to the peace process, as long as it met certain conditions, including that it take place in the context of the implementation of the road map. I therefore urge Israel and the Palestinian Authority to cooperate closely with the Quartet to ensure that the withdrawal from Gaza is accompanied by the full and effective assumption by the Palestinian Authority of its responsibilities in the territory, and that a momentum towards the full implementation of the road map is developed. The passage of Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) and the subsequent establishment of the Interim Government of Iraq, represented a crucial coming together by the international community on the importance of reconstruction in Iraq. It is vital that that Government should be able to move ahead and establish a full democratic mandate. However, the security situation in Iraq remains a matter of grave concern to us all, and the challenges facing the new Government are great. An end to the lethal violence that is disrupting the normal development of that country is essential. Ireland has always seen the role of the United Nations as central to the issue of reconstructing Iraq. We therefore welcome the forthcoming return of the United Nations mission. Ireland and its EU partners will seek to ensure that that mission is provided with the necessary security to allow it to carry out its functions. The Irish and British Governments continue to work in close partnership to consolidate peace and political stability in Northern Ireland. Since the Good Friday Agreement of 1998, considerable progress has been made in improving and normalizing life in 40 Northern Ireland. In our view, the complete implementation of the Good Friday Agreement remains definitively the best way forward. The elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly last November gave leadership mandates to the Sinn Fein party and the Democratic Unionist Party in their respective nationalist and unionist communities. Since then, both Governments have engaged in intensive discussions with all the parties to finally resolve the key issues of confidence that have thus far frustrated the full achievement of peace and political stability in Northern Ireland. Those key issues include ending paramilitary activity in all its forms; completing the process of decommissioning Irish Republican Army weapons; the implementation by the British Government of the agreed programme of normalization and demilitarization; ensuring that the new policing service is supported by all sections of the community and resolving the related issue of the devolution of justice and policing powers; and obtaining commitments from all parties to fully participate in the institutions of the Agreement. Those were the issues that were addressed in three days of intensive talks that were convened by both Governments in Leeds Castle in England last week. Substantial progress was made in the talks regarding the issues of paramilitarism and arms decommissioning. As Prime Minister Blair said after the talks, the contours of the paramilitary question are now in sight of being resolved, to be accompanied by subsequent demilitarization, as agreed in the joint declaration issued by the British and Irish Governments last October. In addition, significant progress was made with regard to the policing issue and the devolution of those powers to devolved institutions in Northern Ireland. Regrettably, it was not possible to achieve agreement among the parties themselves on the question of the operation of the political institutions of the Agreement. Talks are continuing in Belfast this week to see if the gaps between the parties on that issue can be resolved. The gaps are narrow and can, and must, be overcome at the earliest possible date. It was noteworthy in that regard that the leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, Mr. Ian Paisley, made the point immediately after the talks that a golden opportunity has been available to realize a stable and entirely peaceful future. For our part, the Irish Government is open to considering changes that would improve the workings of the institutions while maintaining compliance with the fundamentals of the Agreement, and we have brought forward proposals in that regard. But, I reiterate, as the Taoiseach emphasized last weekend, such changes must not disturb the fundamental balance of the Good Friday Agreement, in particular its key power-sharing provisions. The resolution of those institutional questions would allow both Governments to bring forward a comprehensive package providing a template for political stability in Northern Ireland. It would be a tragedy if the failure to bridge the remaining gaps on that institutional matter frustrated the goal of definitively removing the issue of arms from politics in Northern Ireland. The people, rightly, would not understand why that long-awaited prize was denied because of a reluctance to fully embrace the structures of partnership and power-sharing. If, on the other hand, those institutional issues can be resolved and a comprehensive agreement then brought forward, we can finally liberate partnership politics in Northern Ireland and allow its committed and talented politicians ó from all sides of the community ó to collectively get on with the job of providing better governance, a prospering economy and a fair society for all of the people. I will conclude where I began, on the need to rededicate ourselves to the reinvigoration of this great Organization. Next year will be a year in which important decisions on the future of the United Nations must be taken. We need to rededicate ourselves to the principles and purposes for which this Organization was founded. We need to restore the sense of ambition and idealism that illuminated the United Nations at its inception. We need, above all, to build an Organization that is results- oriented and that can demonstrate that politics is the most effective means of resolving conflict. Let us make 2005 the year in which the United Nations is reborn strong, effective and respected, as the founding fathers intended it to be.Allow me, first of all, to congratulate the President on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I am fully confident that his wisdom and diplomatic skills will guide our deliberations to a fruitful outcome. I would also like to take this opportunity to convey my appreciation to Mr. Julian Hunte for his able leadership and contributions to the success of the previous session. My delegation would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his selfless dedication to the cause of the United Nations. The world today faces many daunting challenges. Most ominous and threatening among them are issues related to peace and security. Under those circumstances, it is worth recalling the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, which were enunciated 50 years ago by Myanmar, along with China and India, to provide the basic principles for inter-State relations. The Principles were subsequently adopted by Asian and African leaders in the Bandung Declaration of 1955. The 1961 Belgrade Conference of the Non- Aligned Movement also adopted the Principles as basic tenets of the Movement. The United Nations itself endorsed the Principles. Founded on the premise of the essential unity of humankind, the Five Principles remain as relevant and valid today as on the day they were proclaimed. Myanmar considers the United Nations, which represents international legitimacy and near-universal membership, as the sole multilateral forum for addressing urgent global issues. Recent events remind us of the futility of unilateralism and the danger of resorting to the use of force without the authorization of the United Nations. Threats to the international system and the rapidly evolving international situation demand a thorough reform of the Organization and its mechanisms, structure and working methods. In that context, we would like to reiterate our views on the reform of the Organization, including that of the Security Council. The expansion and reform of the Security Council must be an integral part of a common package. If it is to become more representative and reflect contemporary political and economic realities, the Council should be expanded in both categories of membership. An ideal solution in the democratization process would be the abolition of the veto. Until that is done, its application should be limited. It is also our view that new permanent members of the Security Council should enjoy the same rights and privileges as current members. Myanmar notes with interest the ongoing work of the Secretary-General’s High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. In this highly globalized world, regional cooperation, including South-South cooperation, can well complement international cooperation. As a member of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, Myanmar is actively involved in the Association’s activities aimed at promoting regional 13 peace, stability and prosperity and at enhancing cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region. Terrorism is one of the most serious challenges that the world faces today. It threatens national sovereignty and violates human rights, including the right to life. Last year, terrorists carried their war to the doorstep of the United Nations. They cruelly extinguished the lives of 22 innocent persons, including that of Special Representative Sergio Vieira de Mello, at United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. More recently, we have seen wanton acts of terrorism in diverse parts of the world, from Beslan to Jakarta to Madrid. Myanmar unequivocally condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and joins the international community in calling for concerted action to combat the menace in accordance with the United Nations Charter and international law. We have never permitted the use of our territory for hostile acts against any State. We have neither provided assistance to those involved in terrorist acts nor safe haven to them, and we never will. Myanmar is doing its utmost to combat this menace at the national, regional and international levels. Myanmar has signed, or acceded to, 11 of the 12 international legal instruments related to the suppression of terrorism. It is also actively involved in the Bali Process to combat transnational crime, including international terrorism. The illicit trafficking in drugs is another challenge that is closely linked to other transnational crimes. Success in the war against drugs will contribute to a successful outcome in the fight against transnational crime. Myanmar accords topmost priority to the suppression and eradication of narcotic drugs. A 15-year national plan is targeted at the eradication of narcotic drugs in the country by the year 2014. In the last decade, Myanmar seized and destroyed drugs valued at more than $14.5 billion. Figures from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration show that over a span of eight years, from 1996 to 2003, poppy cultivation declined steadily, by 71 per cent, while opium production decreased by 81 per cent. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime has acknowledged Myanmar’s commitment to the anti-drug campaign. In recent years the problem of synthetic drugs has also surfaced. The illicit drugs chain begins with inadequate control of the trade in precursor chemicals. It bears repetition that my country does not produce precursor chemicals used in the production of narcotic drugs. We would like to urge countries that produce precursor chemicals to institute effective regulatory controls. Without precursor chemicals there can be no amphetamine-type synthetic drugs. Myanmar is determined in its fight against drugs. It has established bilateral, trilateral, regional and multilateral cooperation to rid the world of this scourge. Some Western countries allege that Myanmar is not adequately addressing the issue of trafficking in persons. Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, Myanmar views trafficking in persons as an evil that must be suppressed through concerted action. In that connection, Myanmar acceded to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime on 30 March of this year. A national law against human trafficking is being drafted in accordance with that Convention. Next month, Myanmar will host the meeting of the six-nation Coordinated Mekong Ministerial Initiative against Trafficking. Allegations of human rights violations in Myanmar are aimed at discrediting the Government for political purposes. Myanmar believes that the question of human rights is an important issue. It should be addressed with objectivity and impartiality, and without selectivity. Myanmar has consistently cooperated with the United Nations on human rights issues. In that context, a national Human Rights Committee has already been established and human rights awareness is being introduced in school curricula nationwide, as well as through workshops. An interview conducted by a politically motivated non-governmental organization with 25 or so insurgents inside a neighbouring country became the basis of a report that there are 70,000 child soldiers in the Myanmar national armed forces. That is a far- fetched conclusion. The falsehood found its way into the report of the Secretary-General on children and armed conflict in 2002 (S/2002/1299). The report subsequently became the resource document in the Security Council’s ensuing thematic debate on children and armed conflict. I wish, first of all, to firmly reiterate that Myanmar is not a nation in armed conflict. It is a nation at peace. Secondly, I wish to clearly state that 14 children not permitted to be recruited into the armed services in Myanmar, either by law or in practice. A preventive programme was in place in my country even before Security Council resolutions were adopted on this theme. In that regard, the Chairman of our Committee on the Prevention of the Recruitment of Child Soldiers recently received the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) representative in Myanmar to explore ways and means to enhance cooperation. The representative was afforded the opportunity to visit the army recruitment centre near Yangon, and subsequently the army recruitment centre in Mandalay together with the United Nations Resident Coordinator. Myanmar is finalizing an action plan and is cooperating with UNICEF in that regard. It will also continue its cooperation with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict. Allow me to turn to developments in my country. Peace and stability have been restored. We are taking steps to ensure a smooth transition to a peaceful, democratic modern State. Myanmar places the highest priority on national reconciliation to achieve unity among its 135 national races. In order to strengthen ties and promote the economic and social development of the national races inhabiting the border areas, the Government has expended 58 billion kyats and more than $550 million in infrastructure development that includes communication networks and education and health facilities, thus promoting the quality of life of those citizens. Notwithstanding the unilateral sanctions of some Western countries, Myanmar has been able to develop its economy and promote the well-being of its people. We have achieved this by relying mainly on our own resources, and with the assistance and cooperation of our neighbours. Noteworthy advances have been made in the health and education sectors. The country now has 757 hospitals, with 140 hospitals having been added in the last 15 years. In the past year alone, 22 new hospitals were commissioned. Over the same period, the number of colleges and universities in the country has increased from 32 to 154. Enrolment has risen dramatically in those institutions, from 120,000 to 890,000 students. The President returned to the Chair. Allow me now to turn to recent political developments in my country. In August 2003, the Prime Minister, General Khin Nyunt, announced a seven-step road map for transition to democracy. The road map has been well received in the country, as well as by our neighbours. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit last November welcomed the commitment of the Myanmar Government to effect a transition to democracy. The first and most crucial step of the road map, the reconvening of the National Convention, was taken on 17 May of this year. The current Convention is being attended by 1,088 delegates from eight strata, representing all walks of life. It is more inclusive than the previous Convention, which was attended by only about 700 delegates. Moreover, 60 per cent of the delegates to the current Convention are from the national races. Over 100 delegates represent 17 major armed groups and 17 smaller armed groups, which have returned to the legal fold. In the previous Convention, representatives of three or four armed groups which had just returned to the legal fold were present as observers. During the first session, the sensitive issue of power-sharing between the central Government and the states and regions was the main focus of discussion. Indeed, power-sharing is a vital and delicate issue, as the country is now evolving from a unitary Government structure to a union structure, where states and regions will have their own executive and legislative bodies. Delegates held extensive discussions on that issue. Because of the complex and sensitive nature of the deliberations, discussions were time- consuming and sometimes intense. After a successful first session, the Convention adjourned on 9 July. Myanmar is a union of 135 national races, and unity is key to achieving our vision of a prosperous democratic State. We are greatly encouraged by the results of the first session. The common desire to ensure the success of the seven-step road map was evident. Preparations are under way for the second session, which is to be convened in the forthcoming open season. Once agreement is reached on the fundamental principles in the National Convention, a new constitution will be drafted. The draft text will be put to a referendum for the people of Myanmar to decide upon. After the adoption of the new 15 constitution, there will be free and fair elections, in which the people will elect leaders of their choice. The new political structure needs to be strong and resilient, and the country united. The future of the nation cannot be determined by one individual or one party acting alone. There is no alternative to the National Convention. It is the sole process through which the aspirations of the people of Myanmar to establish a modern and democratic nation can be fulfilled. We cannot allow the National Convention to be derailed under any circumstances. Failure would plunge the nation into the abyss of anarchy. That is the reason why we set such store on the successful outcome of the National Convention. We are determined that this vital national endeavour will be crowned with success.I wish to begin by warmly congratulating Mr. Jean Ping, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Gabon, on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- ninth session. I wish also to extend my country’s thanks to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the powerful and inspiring words he spoke yesterday (see ). Thousands of my compatriots are today suffering under the blows of nature. Floods of a kind never before seen have brought grief to many families. The entire country has turned to the victims in a truly moving display of solidarity. With my heart in Panama with the victims and their families, I have come to the United Nations, because the tragedy unfolding in my country highlights more than ever the need to tackle the problem of poverty urgently. The United Nations was conceived as a way of preventing war and restoring peace. Today, all the countries of the world have to be able to feel that they can come to the United Nations to solve their problems and not just to discuss them. If that is to happen, the United Nations must reform. For some years, from this rostrum, heads of State and Government have been urging the need for reform, and the Secretary-General has welcomed that initiative. I want to join my voice to theirs so that once and for all we actually carry out the reform. We cannot afford to wait any longer or the people of the world will lose faith in the United Nations. We do not need an organization with a glorious past. We need an organization with a future, one that can tackle the world’s most serious problems. For that reason it is necessary that the principal organs be more representative. There are political struggles and armed conflicts on every continent. There is no region of the world where peace and harmony reign. Some are regional conflicts, some are internal ones, but they are no less bloody for that. And yet, there is one struggle that is global in dimension and that requires global solutions. I am speaking of the struggle against hunger and poverty. That was the subject of a 20 September meeting of more than 60 world leaders, who were resolved to tackle it with all the tools available to them. I need not dwell on the tragic numbers, but I do endorse what has been said by the moving force of that meeting, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, President of Brazil: “peace can never grow out of poverty and hunger”. In Latin America the threat to democracy posed by military coups has been significantly reduced. It is no longer army divisions that threaten democracy; it is the legions of the poor and the unprotected who can destroy democratic institutions if their basic needs are not met. But then we face a contradiction: the more poverty there is in a given country, the less likelihood there is of being able to defeat it. Countries are crushed by public debt. Millions of people are being born today already owing more than they will earn in their entire lifetime. Often those debts are the result of past deficits, which, owing to excessive bureaucracy, bad projects or corruption, produced no tangible benefits for the people. The fiscal problems facing most of the countries in our region make the situation even worse, as Governments lack the resources they need to try to meet the minimum needs of their people. This analysis is not a new one. The “lost decade” of the 1980s was the result of exactly the same problems, although there was also an international economic crisis and an absence of democratic 28 legitimacy in most of the continent at that time. There are, however, undeniable differences between that period and the present. On the one hand, over the past few years unprecedented wealth has been generated, while at the same time the number of poor has grown. On the other hand, although more countries are democratic today, there is also a greater amount of debate on how to effectively address society’s immediate problems. Democracy, as a system of government, ended up being conflated with the limitations of individuals, while in truth the problem was that Governments were unable to produce effective responses. The problem is thus not democracy; the problem lies with Governments. Direct help to Governments, in the form of loans or grants, has not been enough or sufficiently effective to solve the problems of poverty or the lack of growth that the aid was supposed to correct. Those of us who have the responsibility of governing and trying to provide answers cannot forget that, for many, patience has yielded to despair. The immediacy of their needs demands immediate solutions, which are not always to hand. That means that we have to speak out clearly about the problems, that we have to administer our States with transparency and that we have to fight corruption in order to win back the trust of people who are tired of so much deception and frustration. Latin America needs a new economic agenda, one not based at just throwing money at social problems. It needs an agenda that seeks to understand the complex nature of our countries and institutions. Stopping payments, restructuring, adjustments — that is a road that we have been down before, and our region was the loser. The new agenda requires absolute transparency in public administration and accountability. But the task of making public administration more efficient and more transparent takes time and resources. But interest on debt builds up, and the needs of a large sector of the population also increase. Progress in reducing poverty among our peoples will require much effort and great resources from the poor countries; to a degree, creditor countries and multilateral agencies could compensate them by reducing public debt. In that regard, we propose that a relief clause be included in the lending programmes of the international financial institutions to reduce future interest on our public debt if we meet agreed goals on poverty reduction. That would be one way of compensating Governments for their efforts to alleviate poverty while also allowing them to meet their financial obligations. In the past few years, people’s concerns have shifted dramatically. Cultural heritage, natural wealth, biodiversity and animal species threatened with extinction must all be protected. It seems that sometimes financial resources are found more easily for those issues than for the millions of human beings who are dying every day of hunger, or for those who are barely surviving, unable to live a decent life, and without hope. I would like to join in the widespread call on the international community to devise and implement bold and generous approaches to tackle poverty. It is shameful that in the technological age, when so many things have been invented that were unimaginable just 10 years ago, that we have not been able to invent a way for millions of people in the world to escape from the subhuman conditions to which poverty condemns them. Sometimes it seems that international aid is provided only if there are desperate tragedies or acts of terrorism. Of course, when nations are victims of national disaster or terrorism such international assistance is necessary and commendable. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate Panama’s resolve to combat terrorism wherever it may occur. But we must not forget that many more people die because of poverty than in wars or natural disasters. I am pleased to report that Panama has done its duty and has stood by the international community in its efficient and safe management of the Canal. We shall continue in future to manage that important artery of international trade in the same way, so that it will be, as it has been today, open to shipping from all countries of the world. I will return to my country optimistic, because I have seen here a determination to fight poverty. I have sensed the solidarity of the international community in the face of natural disaster and I have renewed my belief that when there is the will, when there is faith and determination, the most difficult tasks can be accomplished.Allow me at the outset, Mr. President, to join those who have spoken before me in extending warm congratulations on behalf of my country, my delegation and myself for your brilliant election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. The Chairman of the African Union, His Excellency Mr. Olusegun Obasanjo, already expressed here a few days ago our continent’s gratitude to the international community, which, by choosing you, has made one of Africa’s most illustrious sons President of the General Assembly. We naturally associate ourselves with that expression of gratitude. We wish you every success in carrying out your lofty mission, and you know you have always had Niger’s support. To your predecessor, 21 His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte, I should like to express our congratulations on the skill, enthusiasm and authority with which he conducted the work of the fifty-eighth session of the Assembly in a difficult international context. Today, the international community finds itself at a crossroads. International peace and security — already sorely tested by recurrent armed conflicts — are subjected to threats or bloody attacks of terrorist acts, which further darken the global atmosphere of uncertainty and insecurity. In your opening statement, Mr. President, you mentioned one of those persistent and bloody conflicts — that of the Middle East, a conflict that costs so much to humanity in terms of human lives, financial resources and lost hope. That region’s macabre statistics remind us — as if that were still necessary — of the urgent need to bring the parties to the negotiating table on the basis of the road map, which the Security Council itself endorsed through its resolution 1515 (2003). Today, in addition to the Palestinian problem and in light of Iraq, the situation in the Middle East is central to world peace and security as never before. With respect to Iraq — a country with which Niger shares the same faith, Islam, the basis of our common membership in the Organization of the Islamic Conference — we cannot fail to deplore so much loss of human life and so much blind violence, which are the daily lot of the Iraqi people. We earnestly hope that greater, revitalized international cooperation will enable us to swiftly establish free and democratic institutions in Iraq, put an end to the chaos that seems to have taken root there and bring to the country the peace and stability necessary for its socio-economic development. Niger, as a member of the Organization of the Islamic Conference Contact Group on Jammu and Kashmir, believes that a sustained dialogue between India and Pakistan will make it possible to lay the foundation for a peaceful solution to that conflict by enabling the people of Kashmir to exercise their right to self-determination, in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions. Concerning Western Sahara, Niger reaffirms its support for United Nations efforts with a view to reaching a just and comprehensive settlement of the conflict. The commendable actions of the Secretary- General should be continued and supported until we see a successful conclusion, in conformity with the relevant United Nations resolutions, particularly Security Council resolutions 1495 (2003) and 1541 (2004). In Niger, at the end of a long and sometimes painful process, we have established a political system in which a multitude of parties, private media and civil society organizations flourish, all of them under the protective umbrella of a constitution that guarantees the separation of powers and an independent judiciary. His Excellency Mr. Tandja Mamadou, President of the Republic since the democratic elections of 22 November 1999, invited the people of Niger on 14 September 2004 to vote in new presidential and legislative elections that will be held starting on 13 November 2004. That will be the first time since 1991 — when the multiparty system was established in Niger — that a fully democratic mandate has been completed. And it will be successfully, because in our country, social peace has returned, State authority has been restored, the economy is back on track and the people of Niger have new hope. On 24 July, the building of democratic structures was completed through municipal and local elections, to the great satisfaction of everyone. The restored status of the State has made it possible — thanks to the personal intervention of President Tandja Mamadou — to quickly overcome the resistance of the remaining few who were still opposed to the expanded polio vaccination programme. Here, I must sincerely thank the international community — particularly the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the Centres for Disease Control of the United States and Rotary International — for having effectively assisted us in our efforts in that fight. At the external level, our public and private bilateral partners who left Niger before 1999 have since returned. Niger’s presidency of the West African Economic and Monetary Union and, last year, of the Community of Sahelo-Saharan States has given greater visibility to our external action aimed at peace and security in Africa. In particular, that action has taken the form of sending a Niger contingent to Côte d’Ivoire, military observers to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and civilian police components to Burundi, the Central African Republic and Timor- Leste. All that has convinced us that the international community’s support is more essential today than ever before to help Africa strengthen the capacities of its 22 subregional institutions and those of its continental organization, the African Union. Under the leadership of President Olusegun Obasanjo, the African Union is working ceaselessly to prevent conflicts in African countries where peace reigns, to consolidate peace and security where — as in Guinea-Bissau, Sierra Leone or Liberia — the populations have barely emerged from a situation of political instability or bloody armed conflicts, and, lastly, to extinguish the hotbeds of tension persisting in Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and the Sudan. Our experience with conflict prevention and resolution in Africa teaches us that the golden rule in that respect is to have confidence in subregional institutions and the African Union and to support them with consistent logistical and financial means. In that regard, Niger welcomes the decision taken by the Security Council to support the African Union’s decision to strengthen and expand the observation mission in Darfur and to encourage member States to provide all the equipment and logistical, financial and material resources required for the mission’s swift expansion. We earnestly hope that the various parties to the conflict will respond positively to the appeals coming from Africa and elsewhere to swiftly put an end to that tragedy and to bring about a comprehensive peace agreement, on which the advent of a peaceful Sudan will depend. Within the framework of Africa’s new development initiatives, the heads of State of the African Union agreed, during a special summit held recently in Ouagadougou, to place employment at the centre of their political, economic and social policies. As rightly pointed out by His Excellency Blaise Compaoré, President of Burkina Faso and host of the summit, Africa needs the effective support of the international community to implement the decisions of Ouagadougou. From the Millennium Declaration to the world conferences and summits that followed it, many international decisions made the fight against poverty a world priority and a major challenge for humanity. How, then, can it be that hundreds of millions of people continue to languish in abject poverty and total destitution? How can it be that, in this era of technological and scientific advances, HIV/AIDS and other pandemics continue to wreak havoc throughout the world, particularly in Africa? How can it be that, at a time of globalization, many parts of the planet — particularly the least developed countries — are still totally excluded from international trade? And how can it be that, despite the commitments undertaken through the relevant international conventions, the global environment continues insidiously to deteriorate, dangerously jeopardizing the future of generations to come? In light of that situation, and in view of the dearth of financial resources to address the crucial problems assailing humanity, we must wonder about the existence of real political will on the part of rich countries to help the most impoverished countries overcome abject poverty. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS and the World Solidarity Fund for the Elimination of Poverty — whose creation we welcome — suffer from a cruel lack of resources. Furthermore, we believe the modalities for granting those resources to eligible countries should be modelled after those in force for the funds obtained in the framework of the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, in order to ensure management that is both transparent and responsible. We have to face the reality. Given the economic stagnation, poverty and the lack of prospects that are serious threats for social stability and the young democracies of developing countries, international cooperation is the key to achieving the Millennium Development Goals — as long as developed and developing countries agree to assume their respective responsibilities. In this respect, the commitments made in Doha to promote a just trade, the Monterrey Consensus on Financing for Development and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation on Sustainable Development remain the cornerstones for implementation of the Goals. However, the meagre results achieved in the implementation of conclusions from major forums prompt the international community as a whole to re- examine its conscience. The upcoming high-level dialogue on financing for development should be an opportunity to once again place at the core of the debate the important issue of the mobilization of resources for development. In this respect, taxation at a level to be agreed upon — as was recalled at the last summit on poverty — on all international financial transactions could provide the substantial funding so 23 necessary for attaining the Millennium Development Goals. Endemic poverty, which affects the African continent in particular, is not a question of fate. It is possible to reduce poverty as long as the international community is resolute in tackling it. It is possible to reduce poverty if industrialized countries implement without delay the enhanced programme to alleviate the debt of highly indebted countries and agree to cancel all bilateral public debts. It is possible to reduce poverty if industrialized countries agree to increase official development assistance to the level necessary to reach the objectives of the Millennium Development Goals. It is possible to reduce poverty if industrialized countries resolve to open their markets to commodities from developing countries, and if raw materials from those countries are purchased at their proper values. It is possible to reduce poverty if industrialized countries eliminate their farming subsidies for cotton and support the countries concerned in their policy for providing rural areas with a suitable farming infrastructure and, especially, with small rural facilities. Lastly, it is possible to reduce poverty if globalization is better managed and if interdependence leads to the establishment of an international financial and commercial structure that is democratic and able to meet the needs of all parties. Not so long ago the international community, with the Group of 8 in the lead, solemnly declared its commitment to support the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). Today we must acknowledge that that great enthusiasm still has not materialized in concrete actions on a scale that would meet the legitimate aspirations of African continent. Despite constant efforts by the African countries, there is still much left to be done to meet the objectives contained in that vast and ambitious partnership. I am pleased to say here that Niger is very pleased to work with the Office of the Representative of the Secretary-General for NEPAD, as well as with the Office of the High Representative of the United Nations for Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Countries and Small Island Developing States. To conclude, it is important that the Desertification Convention be effectively implemented, a convention that is seen as the best illustration of the link between environmental degradation and poverty. Speaking of environmental degradation, how can we overlook the ecological ravages caused by the current locust invasion in part of Africa? Because it did not act in good time, the international community — which had been warned of this danger far in advance — must now mobilize, as soon as possible, sufficient financial and material means to stop the spread of the plague in order to halt the spectre of famine that looms over the populations of northern Africa, the Sahel and West Africa as a whole.Allow me first of all to address my warmest congratulations to Mr. Jean Ping on his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. Allow me also to pay a well-deserved tribute to Mr. Ping’s eminent predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, whose great vitality enabled him to relaunch the discussion on the revitalization of the General Assembly and to give a new impetus towards coordination among the Organization’s main bodies. Finally, I would like to express to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, the great appreciation of the people and Government of Benin for his work as head of our Organization; we commend him for his courage, his skill and his vision of world affairs. People from every corner of the planet are placing great hope in our work over the course of this session to give hope and life to their legitimate aspirations. That can only be achieved if we all work 9 together, with conviction and determination, to consolidate our commitment to multilateralism. Yes, in order to survive, our world, more than ever before, needs multilateral cooperation based on the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Yes, more than ever before the principles of the Charter must be implemented with an acute sense of responsibility and a clear understanding of their purpose, which is to promote international peace and security and economic and social development as essential prerequisites for the promotion and protection of human dignity. Yes, it is now on the basis of human dignity that we are to measure the validity and accuracy of any national or international policy. We therefore urge every Member of the United Nations to examine their consciences and to make changes accordingly, so that we can give that approach its fullest meaning. It is on this issue that the challenges are the greatest, as can be seen by the blind abuse and violence that is carried out on a massive scale by terrorists and armed groups against innocent civilians. With respect to armed conflicts and their consequences, we must redouble our past efforts to enhance our ability to act preventively, doing all we can to quickly and effectively defuse potential sources of conflicts and neutralize the seeds of conflict situations before they germinate. As we have no other choice but to cure — since we have been unable to prevent — we have to considerably increase United Nations capabilities in the areas of peacekeeping and management of post-conflict situations. We would like to reiterate our deep gratitude to the Secretary-General for his personal commitment in seeking a rapid solution to the Ivorian crisis within the framework of the Accra III accords. The international community — despite the erratic evolution of the situation — must stay the course with Côte d’Ivoire in its efforts to respect its commitments and to ensure a smooth transition towards the restoration of peace, by stabilizing the situation so that that country can find its place within the development dynamic in the West African subregion. We also encourage the international community to focus particular attention on the Great Lakes region, which remains a source of concern. The situation there also requires a regional approach — one that can be best effected by holding the proposed international conference on the Great Lakes region. We reiterate our firm support for the Secretary- General’s recommendations to substantially reinforce the troops of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in order to help consolidate the peace process in that country. The situation in Darfur has highlighted the urgent need to realize programmes to establish an independent operations management unit for peacekeeping within the African Union in order to facilitate the rapid deployment of African forces to stem conflicts as soon as they break out. Conflict prevention can only be effective if we take into consideration the disturbing question of the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, which is a dangerous destabilizing factor. The illicit circulation of small arms and light weapons considerably reduces the ability of national communities to peacefully resolve their disputes. The same applies to disarmament, which Benin considers crucial to the establishment of peace and the promotion of development. We call for the total and verifiable elimination from our planet of the threat of nuclear arms, as well as other types of weapons of mass destruction. Since 11 September 2001 international terrorism has become one of the great challenges of our time. The international community must condemn terrorism and combat it in all its forms with determination — attacking the problem with a renewed political will to seek a lasting solution to the serious international problems that terrorism feeds on. We must, however, remember that in prosecuting that struggle it is imperative that we preserve the democratic freedoms that have been so dearly won by our citizens, and the open society, which is the essence of democracy. Indeed, terrorism is not the monopoly of a single religion or nationality, much less that of a given civilization. It is not the concern of one particular category of countries. It is a global threat and, as a result, requires a global response. My country is sparing no effort to join the efforts of the international community in that area. It is in that spirit that we signed and carried out the ratification of 12 international conventions regarding the fight against terrorism and organized crime. 10 We have all acknowledged the need for reform, and for more than a decade have been involved in a multidimensional discussion in order to bring the institutional architecture of the United Nations system and its operating methods up to date in accordance with the changing realities the elements of the system were devised to confront. The ultimate goal of reform is to better serve the ideals of the Organization and better meet the legitimate expectations of the people of the world in the face of the dangers confronting them today. With respect to Security Council reform, most Member States have expressed the hope that the Security Council will become more representative of the international community as a whole, in the light of the considerable increase in the number of Member States — which have grown from 51 to 192 since the creation of the United Nations — and in the light of the fact that the new States have a certain weight demographically, economically and militarily. I take this opportunity to extend my thanks to all Member States of the United Nations that, on 23 October 2003, voted for my country, Benin, to become a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the period 2004-2005. In the context of current discussions on Security Council reform, Benin believes that any reform of the Council must take into consideration the legitimate aspirations of the developing countries, in particular African countries, while maintaining the Council’s effectiveness and good functioning. Benin has no objection to the friendly countries of Japan, Germany and Brazil becoming permanent members of the Security Council. However, the extent, the nature and the modalities of the increase in Council membership should be based on the principles of equitable geographic distribution and the sovereign equality of States. Clearly, there cannot be a partial or selective increase in the number of permanent and non- permanent members of the Council that works to the detriment of the developing countries. In that context, Africa, like all regional groups, must have two permanent seats on the Security Council. Any other solution would cause a de facto disequilibrium and an overrepresentation of one regional group to the detriment of others. In other words, Africa justly demands two permanent seats and two non-permanent seats, in addition to the three it currently holds. The right of veto should be extended to the new permanent members of the Security Council. In addition, the non-permanent members of the Council, in rotation, could be accorded the veto power during the month they hold the presidency, given the importance of that position. The link between development and peace can be seen more clearly now than in the past. We are used to hearing those two concepts linked in the time-honoured saying that “development is the other name for peace”. As national revenue grows, Governments have greater manoeuvring room to adopt social and economic policies that promote national integration and regional equilibrium. Today, two years after the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg, we all agree on the importance of the progressive and harmonious attainment of the goals of sustainable development, in accordance with the outcome of our work at Johannesburg. If the environment is important, in no way can it be treated separately from other aspects of sustainable development. Rather, it is by reinforcing national development capacity, while supporting the activities of communities through high- impact programmes such as microfinancing, as proposed by the United Nations Development Programme and the Global Environment Facility, that we can wage a radical campaign against extreme poverty and reduce the number of people living in poverty by 2015, as established in the Millennium Development Goals. Those programmes provide opportunities to help us better protect natural resources. However, we will not allow the protection of the environment to become a limit to our country’s economic growth. Sustainable development, properly understood, consists of integrating all dimensions into a coherent national policy. In developing countries, in particular the least developed countries and especially Benin, where many efforts have been made to reinforce democracy, strengthen the decentralization process and fight poverty, communities and non-governmental organizations must be strengthened to decentralize management of the environment and thus promote development at the local level. Also to fight poverty and better manage natural resources, we must remember that the Johannesburg 11 Summit identified the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification as one way to fight poverty and as a tool available to the international community to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. When, at its sixtieth session, the General Assembly examines the progress made towards achieving those Goals, my delegation hopes that the Convention to Combat Desertification will take its rightful place in the discussions on the Millennium Project, led by Professor Jeffrey Sachs. With respect to financial resources, we call on the international community to make the fourth replenishment of the Global Environment Fund even greater than the third and call for the issue of soil degradation and desertification to receive all the attention it deserves. By adopting the 2001 Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the decade 2001- 2010 at the conclusion of the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, held in Brussels, the international community established the key goal of doing everything possible to halve by 2015 the number of people living in extreme poverty and suffering hunger and to promote sustainable development in the developing countries. In spite of the efforts made, the least developed countries continue to suffer from the burden of debt, leading to weakened measures for social protection, the impoverishment of vulnerable segments of society, rural migration and the depreciation of agricultural products, among other things. In his mandate as Global Chair of the Bureau of the Least Developed Countries, President Mathieu Kérékou of the Republic of Benin took part from 28 to 30 June 2004 in the 2004 high-level segment of the Economic and Social Council’s substantive session, devoted to mobilizing resources and promoting an environment favourable to eliminating poverty, in the context of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the decade 2001-2010. The high-level segment identified real ways to mobilize external and internal resources to eliminate poverty through microfinancing, the promotion of small and medium-sized business and land tenure security. The least developed countries, in particular those of Africa, must strive to strengthen partnerships with the international community, given that the prospects of their national economies raise the most doubts. This year, Benin has again made its modest contribution to international efforts by convening an African Union regional conference on the family, in the framework of the tenth anniversary of the United Nations International Year of the Family. At that conference, Africa established an action plan on the African family, as well as strategies for its implementation. The action plan is based on the observation that Africa is undergoing three great transformations and is faced with enormous challenges that place increased pressure on families. In order to meet those challenges, we must adopt an integrated approach that places families at the centre of a comprehensive development programme to preserve the integrity of families. African countries share the conviction that implementation of the nine priority areas of that action plan will make it possible to achieve the Millennium Development Goals in the shortest possible time. The action plan has been issued as a United Nations document. We urge our development partners to give it all the necessary attention in order to pool resources to implement the plan, which can be considered a supplementary effort to better focus on human beings within their basic social milieu and according to their principal needs, with a view to attaining the Millennium Development Goals. Encouraging efforts have been made in the areas of official development assistance, managing the foreign debt of heavily indebted countries and multinational trade negotiations — in particular those undertaken in the context of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development. They must be coherently pursued in order to achieve an overall improvement in the foreign environment for developing countries, in general, and for African countries, in particular. I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the extension of the expiration date of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, as well as for the adoption of the general Framework for Establishing Modalities in Agriculture for multilateral trade negotiations under the Doha Work Programme, which is known as the July package. The general framework of negotiations on that document was based on the agreement of developed countries to bring domestic subsidies for their farmers to a level 12 that permits farmers in the least developed countries to live off the fruits of their labours. In that regard, I would like to emphasize that, as far as the sectoral Cotton Initiative is concerned — which should be the subject of separate and special treatment within a subcommittee — the development strategy for the cotton sector could encompass identifying market opportunities, the possibility of developing high-added-value activities and the establishment of bodies or mechanisms that make it possible to regulate and strengthen the market. I would like to conclude my statement by reminding the Assembly that Benin will assume the presidency of the Security Council in February 2005. As part of its presidency, we plan to organize a ministerial conference in New York on the theme “Thinking about the future situation of child soldiers in Africa”. One of the objectives envisaged for that debate will be to help find lasting solutions to the problem of child soldiers in Africa and to begin the process of developing an international legal instrument to prevent the recruitment of children into armies. Through that theme, we will hope to engage the international community in a genuine alliance to promote peace, security, political stability and development in Africa. We count on the support and participation of members of the Assembly in that conference, which will make it possible for us to defuse the time bomb represented by the issue of child soldiers. I therefore invite all members to make a contribution in order to bequeath a brighter tomorrow to future generations.I should like to begin by congratulating Mr. Jean Ping on his election as President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. He may be sure that Austria will fully support him in carrying out his important task. I fully subscribe to the statement made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands on behalf of the European Union, which expressed the position of the European Union regarding the various global and regional challenges we face today. I would like to emphasize a few additional points from our own perspective. Over the past few years we have had to reassess key concepts of our national and international security environment. With the emergence of new and complex threats, in particular terrorism in combination with the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the international community faces unprecedented challenges for which it has to find legitimate responses. Just recently, we witnessed the horrifying terrorist attack against innocent school children in Beslan. This was only the last of a whole series of heinous attacks in all regions of the world targeted against innocents. Austria is committed to full cooperation with other States and United Nations bodies involved in counter-terrorism and is working to promote the whole range of United Nations action against terrorism. In Vienna, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and its Terrorism Prevention Branch make an important contribution by rendering assistance to Member States in implementing national legislation required by Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and in building their national capacity to do so. Austria is convinced that only effective multilateralism based on the rule of law can address the new and complex challenges that the international community faces today. We support the efforts of the Quartet in the Middle East peace process, and we urge Israel and the Palestinians to implement their respective obligations. The road map remains the only way forward towards a just, comprehensive and lasting settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict leading to two States living side by side in peace and security. The United Nations continues to play a key role in South-Eastern Europe, especially in Kosovo. We welcome the recent appointment of Mr. Soren Jessen- Petersen as Special Representative for Kosovo. In that regard, within the European Union, the countries of the regional partnership ó the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and my country, Austria ó presented concrete proposals with regard to security, economic development, decentralization and the protection of minorities and of religious sites. We are confident that they can contribute to progress in Kosovo. International and regional efforts are essential if we are to contain and resolve the various conflicts in 28 other regions of the world. The dramatic situation in Darfur highlights the need for better harmonization of the international efforts of the United Nations, the African Union, the EU, the League of Arab States, the United States and other actors. We will have to examine carefully the results of the current mission to Darfur of the new Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide and the High Commissioner for Human Rights. Such missions and mechanisms are indeed the tools that the United Nations needs if it is to effectively address emerging crisis situations. Strengthening the rule of law, human rights, democratic participation and economic development will reduce the chance of conflicts within societies and among States turning violent. In order to be a credible player, the United Nations must be given the necessary institutional framework to enact effective strategies at all stages of a conflict. Austria therefore welcomed the Secretary- Generalís call for reform, in particular his initiative to establish a High-Level Panel of eminent persons to propose specific measures for institutional innovation by the end of the year. I was happy to meet with the members of the Panel when it held its meeting in Austria earlier this year. One item on the Panel's agenda is Security Council reform. Austria, like many other countries, is concerned about the growing gap between the Councilís current composition on the one hand, and the changing political, economic and social reality of the community of nations on the other. It is essential to enlarge and balance the membership of the Security Council, as well as to increase its transparency. In order for all peoples to identify with its decisions, we must ensure that the Security Council is a body that truly reflects the diversity of the world's cultures and regions by an improved representation of regions such as Africa, Asia and Latin America. As you know, Sir, it is my personal vision that, in the longer term, the European Union should also be represented in the Security Council. I pointed out during the general debate last year that that would be the logical consequence of further European integration in the field of common foreign and security policy. The United Nations has been at the centre of Austriaís foreign policy since we became a Member after regaining our full independence in 1955. We have always strongly supported the principles and purposes of the United Nations, and we remain committed to the goals of the Charter. Austria feels honoured and privileged to host one of the headquarters of the United Nations. This year, we celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the opening of the Vienna International Centre, home to many United Nations institutions. The work of the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Preparatory Committee of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization with respect to nuclear non-proliferation; the work of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization on development cooperation; and the fight against the so-called uncivil society by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, contribute substantially to the international communityís efforts to confront the worldís new security threats. In this spirit of full and honest commitment to the United Nations, I would like to recall that Austria is a candidate for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the term 2009-2010. Our candidature, announced over five years ago - in 1999 - is based on our willingness to contribute actively and constructively to the maintenance of international peace and security. We fully recognize the heavy responsibility which Security Council membership entails and we are ready to assume it. Over the past 50 years, Austria has sought to contribute effectively to the work of the United Nations, in particular in the fields of peace and security, human rights, development, disarmament and international law. We are a significant contributor to United Nations peacekeeping operations and have traditionally been among the largest European troop contributors. Since 1963, over 50,000 Austrians have served in more than 50 United Nations missions worldwide. Security, as we see it, means human security. It is the kind of security that all human beings are looking for, among them millions of civilians in all parts of the world affected by armed conflict ó the majority of them women and children ó and 40 million people living with the HIV virus. Human security transcends the concept of hard threats and soft threats. If we see those threats through the prism of the human beings concerned, it becomes clear that for the afflicted individual, all such threats - war, hunger, terrorism or deadly disease - deprive them of their security. 29 Austria is honoured to chair the first Review Conference of States Parties to the Anti-personnel Mine-Ban Convention in Nairobi later this year, where the international community will chart a course for the solution of the landmine problem in the coming years. The Mine-Ban Convention has become a true example of a successful and effective multilateral approach to address a global problem. I encourage all States to participate at the Nairobi Summit at the highest possible level. As a member of the Human Security Network, we cooperate with others to promote human security in the world. To provide one concrete example, Austria - together with Slovenia and Jordan ó initiated and funded an aid project for traumatized children in Iraq. I am convinced that applying a human security perspective to international problems has the potential of preventing or resolving conflict and promoting peace and development. We also need to reflect further on how best to ensure respect for human rights during conflict, how to incorporate human rights into preventive policies and how to formulate post-conflict strategies likely to achieve lasting reconciliation and build a firm basis for the rule of law and good governance. In that respect, human rights education is an important element in getting to the root of conflict and breaking the vicious circle of human rights violations. Violence between ethnic groups and religious communities has shaken countries across the globe. In particular, the disregard for the needs and the rights of minorities tends to fuel violent conflict. Our endeavours for the protection of the rights of minorities are still highly needed, not the least to ensure that ethnic cleansing or genocide will never happen again. We know that the Secretary-General feels very strongly about the need for speed of action to prevent the most heinous crimes. I share his concerns. The Austrian Government is convinced that it is an essential responsibility of the United Nations and its Member States to address the root causes of conflict. Global poverty, inequality, competition for scarce resources, environmental degradation and the spread of infectious diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, are among the ingredients that fuel the outbreak of conflicts both within countries and among States. The Austrian Development Policy has placed a particular focus on poverty reduction, maintenance of peace and the protection of the environment. I am pleased to inform the Assembly that Austria has increased its development aid by 35 per cent this year. In the area of environment and sustainable energy, we have initiated and promoted the Global Forum for Sustainable Energy, which aims at providing access to energy for people in developing countries. We consider issues such as climate change, the decline of biodiversity and other forms of environmental degradation as essential aspects of our comprehensive security agenda. Let me finally highlight an issue which the Secretary-General made a central theme of his address to the General Assembly. The key guarantee for creating and maintaining peace and security in the world has been and will continue to be an international system based on the rule of law. This was the very idea of the founders of the United Nations. I particularly welcome the Secretary-General's pledge two days ago that he will make the United Nations work to strengthen the rule of law and transitional justice in conflict and post-conflict societies a priority for the remainder of his tenure. Particularly for smaller and medium sized countries, an international order based on the rule of law is of paramount importance. With this in mind, I would like to announce today that I have launched a discourse on the role and function of the Security Council in strengthening a rules-based international system. As a first step, we will organize in November a panel of international legal experts during International Law Week at Headquarters, which will analyse the increasing law- making tendency of the Security Council. This is my last speech as Austrian Foreign Minister. As you may know, I have been nominated Commissioner of the European Union for External Relations and European Neighbourhood Policy. This function will, of course, keep me in close contact with many Assembly delegates and with the United Nations. I would therefore like to use this opportunity today to thank all colleagues, members of delegations and, in particular, the Secretariat, in which I myself had the honour to work, for the support that has been extended to me and my staff here in New York over the past years. A special and warm expression of gratitude and respect goes to Secretary-General Kofi Annan. To the President of the Assembly, I would like to extend my 30 best wishes for a successful and constructive fifty- ninth session of the General Assembly.Mr. President, at the outset, I have the pleasure to extend my most sincere congratulations and best wishes to you and your friendly country of Gabon on the occasion of your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session and to wish you every success in your work. May I take this opportunity to thank your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the friendly country of Saint Lucia, for the intensive efforts he exerted during his presidency of the last session. I also would like to take this opportunity to express my country’s appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the great efforts he has made to enhance and strengthen the role of the United Nations in maintaining international peace and security. Since the signing of the Charter in 1945 in San Francisco, the United Nations has played a vital role in addressing many international political, economic, social and humanitarian issues. Our world today is witnessing the interlinking of different issues in politics and in regional and international security with other issues of development, the environment, culture, women and human rights. As a result, international interests have become interwoven and the distinction between local and international questions has almost vanished in light of the spread of globalization. People need the United Nations now more than they did a half a century ago. With newly developed understanding, they have a greater day-to-day need to keep up with the modern developments of the twenty-first century and the spirit of the age, led by multilateral diplomacy, which looks at both present and inherited problems from a new practical perspective and understanding. The idea of reforming the United Nations, including the collective security system, is indeed an ambitious one. However, we believe that its implementation is not an impossible dream but a necessity. The international community must respond, through innovative thinking, practical methods and a collective determination, in order to achieve democracy in international relations, maintain the spirit of the Charter, and devise practical solutions to national and regional conflicts and mitigate their consequences for the development process in Member States. In that context, we would like to reiterate our support for the efforts made by the Secretary-General to reform the Organization and enhance its capacity to shoulder its responsibilities and carry out it missions. We look forward with great interest to the report that the Secretary-General will present in December on the outcome of the meetings of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. We hope that these results and recommendations will not only meet the hopes of the peoples of the world but will also be sufficient to address the threats and problems that beset international relations on all sides. As reform and modernization of the United Nations have become a goal for the majority of its Members, by the same token, leaders and political experts in many parts of the world, including the Arab world, have become aware that reform and modernization are important issues in their societies in order to address the demands for change and the movement of history, and that these issues must be addressed with clear-sightedness and wisdom, to meet 25 the hopes and aspirations of the new generation for progress and democratization. As a result of that historic political awareness, the reform and democratization process has made great strides in the Kingdom of Bahrain. Bahrain has moved rapidly in the building of democracy and the widening of popular participation since the adoption of the National Action Charter by the people of Bahrain on 14 February 2001, and municipal and parliamentary elections in 2002. It is clear that the call for reform and democratization, which has become an important contemporary element in international policy, has become a demand of both industrialized countries and of many developing countries as well. This year, the President of the Group of Eight invited His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa, the King of Bahrain, to participate in its annual Summit held in Georgia, United States, from 8 to 10 June last, in recognition of His Majesty’s important role in the reform process and the building of democracy in Bahrain. The phenomenon of terrorism is a source of concern for the international community, because of its horrific spread to many different parts of the world. Indeed, no region or country is immune. In that regard, Bahrain reaffirms its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, regardless of its sources or motivation. We reassert that there can be no justification whatsoever for terrorism, and that terrorist acts are not condoned by any religion or belief. Bahrain has condemned, and continues to condemn, terrorist acts against countries and peoples through which innocent lives are lost, and reaffirms its solidarity with the brotherly Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and its support for all measures it has taken to overcome these criminal actions, which contradict the principles and tenets of Islam, a religion of tolerance and mercy. Bahrain also condemns and denounces all terrorist acts around the world, including the events at the school in Beslan, North Ossetia, in Russia. In examining terrorism and its threats, it is necessary to review its causes in order to limit its destructive danger. Among those causes, we find poverty, ignorance, backwardness, unemployment, a culture of extremism, fundamentalism, ethnic prejudice, feelings of national desperation and frustration, and violations of human rights. To address this terrorist phenomenon, and within the framework of regional and international cooperation to fight it, Bahrain and the other countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) this year signed the GCC Anti-Terrorism Agreement, a further step in overcoming this scourge, which must be eradicated. Israel is increasing its oppressive measures and practices in the occupied territories against the Palestinian people. It does not respect or comply with international law and international legality by taking areas of Palestinian land in its construction of the so- called barrier, which consolidates the occupation and the settlements, and extinguishes hopes for an independent Palestinian State — the legal and inalienable right of the Palestinian people. The international community today must take a courageous stand in the face of these actions, in particular following the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice delivered on 9 July 2004, and General Assembly resolution ES-10/15 of 20 July 2004, which represent a triumph for international legality and a clear condemnation of the building of the separation wall, which contradicts the principles of international law. The international community must use that opinion to pressure Israel to end its occupation of all Palestinian and Arab territories, including the Syrian Golan Heights and the Lebanese Shaba’a Farms. The Arab countries reaffirm their commitment to the Arab peace initiative agreed at the Beirut Summit in 2002, and reaffirmed by the most recent Arab Summit in Tunis in 2004, which calls for a complete Israeli withdrawal from all occupied Arab land and the establishment of an independent Palestinian State with Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with the resolutions of international legality, in particular Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 1397 (2002) and 1515 (2003). We call once again on the Quartet to resume its efforts to promote the peace process, and we demand that the Government of Israel fulfil its obligations under the peace plan, as set out in the road map. The situation in brotherly Iraq remains a continued source of concern for the countries and peoples of the region, in particular the violence and insecurity that threaten it, despite continued efforts to maintain peace, especially following the establishment of the Interim Government, which took office on 28 June 2004, and in spite of the transfer of sovereignty to Iraqi 26 authorities, the convening of the national conference and steps taken towards the creation of an interim National Legislative Council. The upcoming stage requires that a vital and effective role be played by the international community, represented by the United Nations, which will bear the heavy burden of supporting the interim Iraqi Government and helping it to fulfil the tasks required of it under Security Council resolution 1546 (2004). Bahrain has on more than one occasion expressed its support for efforts to maintain peace and security in Iraq, and to create the conditions for the reconstruction of the country and the maintenance of its unity. It also reaffirmed its willingness to participate in Arab and international efforts to rebuild Iraq and to maintain its unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity. The security and stability of the Arab Gulf region is a matter of great concern to the Government of Bahrain, which is constantly seeking peace and stability in a region that has suffered greatly during the past three decades. The Kingdom of Bahrain, which is a member of the Arab Gulf Cooperation Council, calls upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to work to peacefully resolve the issue of the islands of Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, which belong to the United Arab Emirates, either through serious bilateral negotiations aimed at an agreement between the two neighbouring countries or by arbitration. Given the Kingdom of Bahrain’s follow-up of efforts to achieve peace and reconciliation and to re- establish stability in important regions of the Arab world, we welcomed the Naivasha Agreement between the Government of the Sudan and the Sudan People’s Liberation Army. We are anxious to see an end to the civil war there, which has taken a great toll in terms of human life and material resources. Bahrain also welcomed the agreement between the Sudan and the United Nations aimed at ending the bloodshed in the Darfur region, as well as the steps taken by the Sudanese Government to implement its obligations in accordance with the agreement that it signed with the Secretary-General on 3 July. Bahrain also expresses its support for the efforts of the African Union, which is working with the Sudanese Government with a view to resolving the humanitarian crisis in Darfur. We affirm the importance of respecting the Sudan’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. We call on the Security Council to give the Government of the Sudan sufficient time to deal with the crisis and offer the necessary financial assistance to bring it to an end. Mr. Khan (Bangladesh), Vice-President, took the Chair. Today more than ever we are committed to the principles and purposes of the Charter. We now have a deeper understanding of the need for a modernized and more advanced Organization that is capable of taking part in collective international action, of responding to the changes and challenges of the twenty-first century and of ensuring greater democracy in international relations, equal rights among the peoples of the world and equal sovereignty among States. It must also be able to arrive at solutions for problems that may occur in the future on the basis of international partnership, so that any as yet unforeseen challenges facing humanity in the coming decades can be dealt with. Past mistakes and current failures should not divert us from our ambitions for a better future — a future free from the scourge of war, a future of peace and justice, where human rights and the dignity of the individual are respected; a future where resources are developed and where society can progress, where greed has been eliminated and where countries cooperate within an advanced international order that promotes the rule of law and disseminates the values of human rights, generosity and justice, without prejudice, arrogance or discrimination.Mr. President, it is my pleasure to join with preceding speakers in congratulating you on your election to preside over the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. Barbados pledges its fullest cooperation in the year ahead. 8 I wish to thank and congratulate your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte, for his effective leadership of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Barbados was particularly pleased at the election of a representative of a small island Caribbean State to that high office in the United Nations, and President Hunte’s outstanding performance was testimony to the critical and effective role that small islands can play in the multilateral process. His guidance of the work to revitalize the Assembly was particularly noteworthy. This Organization has been accused of being out of touch or, worse, irrelevant to the changing world in which we live, despite its valiant efforts in recent years to promote development, restore peace and maintain security in many parts of the world. In these circumstances, it is incumbent upon all Member States to reaffirm their commitment to and support for the multilateral process, using the United Nations as its primary vehicle. At the same time, there must be a constant process of review, reform and renewal of the Organization so that it can remain relevant in the continuously changing international climate. Furthermore, it is essential that political will be brought to bear on the seemingly intractable issue of reform of the Security Council. Barbados continues to be of the view that the Council must be made more representative of today’s membership of the United Nations, as well as more transparent in its working methods and more democratic in its decision-making. The Security Council must earn the support and confidence of all Members of the United Nations if it is to fulfil its important mandate in an increasingly volatile and insecure international environment. We must also recognize that reform cannot be kept merely within the confines of the United Nations. It must be accompanied by renewal of the wider international governance architecture. It strikes developing nations as deeply unjust and hypocritical that calls for democratization and good governance in the developing world are not accompanied by calls for those values to be reflected in the multilateral organizations by which so many are governed and upon which so many depend. Enhancing the voice and participation of developing countries in international dialogue and decision-making is a fundamental prerequisite for improving global economic governance. Debate on reform of the international financial architecture should not continue to be restricted to the hallowed halls and boardrooms of the Bretton Woods institutions, but should also find a prominent place on the United Nations agenda. We all have a stake in the global economic system and its management. This highly complex and increasingly globalized and interconnected world demands a radically reformed system of global economic and financial governance that promotes equitable development. A majority of States Members of this Organization, both developing and developed, have expressed the urgent need for a transparent, open, democratic and inclusive dialogue between sovereign States on international cooperation in tax matters, within the universal ambit of the United Nations. The persistence of exclusive and restricted membership organizations, such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), that dictate norms and standards in international tax cooperation in lieu of an inclusive intergovernmental forum, is untenable. While we are encouraged by the progress in the debate within the Economic and Social Council to convert the Ad Hoc Group of Experts on International Cooperation in Tax Matters into a committee of that body, with a new and expanded mandate, we still await a final positive decision on the matter. We consider such a decision to be an important first step towards the creation of an international forum to promote and strengthen cooperation in tax matters. Barbados recognizes the critical need for the Doha round of development negotiations to be revived with a developmental focus, and welcomes the decision on the Doha work programme reached by the World Trade Organization on 1 August. The concessions to the least developed countries evident in that framework agreement are laudable. But while it would appear that developed-country benefits remain substantially secure, the framework severely limits the ability of small middle-income developing countries to realize the reasonable benefits expected and necessary to advance their development interests. Trade is a significant factor in the challenge of sustainable development, and trade rules need to take into account the vulnerabilities and the development needs of small States. It is true that developed and advanced developing country partners may experience 9 some developmental challenges similar to those of small States. But it is the inability of the small economies to respond satisfactorily to externally imposed shocks which makes them particularly vulnerable. Barbados appeals to all World Trade Organization members to support the mandate given at Doha to examine issues related to trade in small economies and to frame action-oriented responses to those issues, in order to facilitate the fuller integration of small, vulnerable economies into the multilateral trading system. With respect to small island economies, some of the greatest development threats are those from natural disasters of every kind, including floods, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and, especially, hurricanes. Indeed, in the course of a few hours, Hurricane Ivan devastated the island of Grenada. An economy has disappeared. For many Caribbean countries, this cycle of destruction is repeated year after year — on occasion, several times in the same year. Some of us are constantly repairing and replacing infrastructure, replanting crops and rebuilding our very lives. When a hurricane hurts one or more big cities or states in the United States of America, resources are immediately redirected to help those affected. An entire state or city has never been eradicated. But that is precisely what Grenada experienced just three weeks ago. Can members begin to imagine the implications of a small State being reduced to rubble in less than a day? Terrorists could hardly do a more effective job. Yet such factors are never taken into account when gross domestic product is computed. In response to this devastation, the heads of Government of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) met in emergency session and developed a priority programme for the rehabilitation of Grenada, Carriacou and Petit Martinique. For its part, Barbados has already contributed substantially to the relief effort. But the reality is that CARICOM by itself does not have the financial resources to cope. We call for an international donor conference to help Grenada. In highlighting Grenada, however, we should not overlook the damage done by Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne to the Bahamas, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Tobago, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Jamaica, the Cayman Islands, Cuba, Barbados and the United States, all in the course of the past few weeks. Such catastrophic events directly affect the ability of many small vulnerable developing countries to fully implement the Millennium Development Goals and should be taken into account by the Assembly as it lays the groundwork for the 2005 review. Attaining those goals remains paramount. Barbados reaffirms its commitment to their achievement and urges all States to honour the spirit and intent of the Millennium Declaration. The dominant view in some parts of the world is that the most serious threats to international peace and security are the recent virulent forms of terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and non- conventional weapons, and the spread of transnational criminal networks. But for many others around the globe, particularly those in the developing world, poverty, the spread of HIV/AIDS and other diseases, natural disasters, civil strife and other social, economic and environmental concerns remain the highest priority. It is of the utmost importance that the international community strive to achieve unity of purpose in confronting these diverse security threats and challenges, based on a common multidimensional security agenda. The Secretary-General recently stated that the global security agenda should reflect a global consensus on the major threats to peace and security, be they old or new, hard or soft, and on our common response. In that connection, we eagerly await his report on the work of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. Member States must stand ready to make the necessary bold and drastic reforms of the current multilateral rules and institutions that govern international peace and security. For small island developing States like Barbados, this wider multidimensional nature of threats to international peace and security is particularly important. In addition to the impact of natural disasters to which I have already referred, the trans-shipment of nuclear waste through the Caribbean Sea, global warming and water pollution all threaten our very existence as a nation. For us, challenges to our sustainable development represent some of the more serious threats to our security. 10 In this regard, we place great emphasis on the 10- year review of the Barbados Programme of Action, scheduled to take place in Mauritius next year, since it will present the international community with an opportunity to examine past successes and consider the future challenges that face small island developing States. It is significant that small island developing States themselves have already implemented close to 70 per cent of the Barbados Programme of Action. We trust that the Mauritius meeting will provide our developed country partners with the opportunity to deliver on their past, present and future commitments. Implicit in the proposal first submitted to the General Assembly in 1999 to designate the Caribbean Sea as a special area within the context of sustainable development is the recognition of the marine environment as our most precious natural resource and one of central social, economic and political significance to the Caribbean. Its protection and preservation remain a major priority of the region. This year, the General Assembly will return to that issue. It remains the ultimate goal of the region to have the Caribbean Sea recognized as a special area within the context of sustainable development, and we look forward to continued assistance from the international community in helping us to achieve that objective. Let me now turn to issues of particular relevance to Barbados and the Caribbean. Barbados considers it an irony of tragic proportions that, in the bicentennial year of Haiti’s liberation from colonial control, that pioneer of independence has been plunged once again into crisis. While the events surrounding the abrupt departure of President Aristide remain a matter of deep concern — particularly as they pertain to the constitutionality of the removal of democratically elected leaders — Barbados is committed to assisting the people of Haiti in the process of normalization, the search for a peaceful solution to the political crisis, the strengthening of democratic governance in the country and the provision of humanitarian assistance. Barbados is convinced that full engagement with the interim Government of Haiti best serves the interests of the Haitian people and reflects our stated desire to accompany them at this very difficult time in their history. This is a task which we must not shirk. Let there be no doubt: we expect the interim administration to uphold the highest standards set by the Charter of Civil Society for the Caribbean Community and to fulfil its commitment as regards the rule of law, equal justice for all, democracy and good governance. We look forward to the full implementation of resolution 2058 (XXXIV-0/04) of the Organization of American States on the strengthening of democracy in Haiti, as well as to the holding of municipal, national and presidential elections in 2005, as promised. In this regard, Barbados intends to play its part in international efforts to assist Haiti to put the electoral process in place. Barbados is hopeful that CARICOM will be able to play a key role in assisting Haiti through the Security Council-mandated United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). In this regard, the CARICOM Special Envoy, supported by a task force, has begun work to coordinate assistance to Haiti in areas where the countries of the region have recognized capacity. Over the past week, we have all been made aware of the perilous situation confronting our brothers and sisters in Haiti as a result of the devastation caused by Tropical Storm Jeanne. Haiti is part of our CARICOM family. It is our duty to galvanize all our energies to assist in mitigating the plight of the Haitian people. Two days ago, the Prime Minister of Barbados, the Honourable Owen Arthur, announced that the Government will provide technical assistance, as well as an initial contribution of 1 million Barbados dollars, to the interim Administration for the purpose of providing humanitarian assistance to the people of Haiti in the wake of Hurricane Jeanne. The issue of Cuba’s isolation within the hemisphere is also of concern to Barbados. We embrace Cuba as a bona fide sister State in the Caribbean region and are committed to a policy of constructive engagement with its Government and people. We do not believe that efforts to isolate Cuba, through exclusion from participation in hemispheric bodies such as the Organization of American States and the emerging free trade area of the Americas and measures that create greater hardship for the Cuban people such as the 50-year-long economic embargo will foster change in Cuba. Like the entire Caribbean Community, Barbados, in its engagement with Cuba, has held close to the principles enshrined in the CARICOM Charter of Civil 11 Society. We cannot accept that a regime change exogenously imposed upon the people of Cuba could in any way be a viable option. The Government of Barbados has long enjoyed a warm relationship with its Caribbean neighbour Venezuela and has been deeply concerned by the political crisis in that country. We are satisfied that the recent referendum has been safely and successfully completed. We now look forward to a period of calm in which the process of healing and dialogue — necessary for better understanding between competing groups — can occur. Venezuela needs all of its people working together if it is to move forward and continue to be a leading engine of development in the hemisphere and the beacon of democracy which its founding father intended. It behoves all who cherish democracy to do what we can to give Venezuelans that opportunity. This year, the world commemorates the struggle against slavery and its abolition, with the goal of deepening knowledge of slavery and the slave trade and highlighting its philosophical, political and legal legacy. As the first landfall upon crossing the Atlantic Ocean, Barbados was the recipient of a large number of African slaves, leading to a major imprint of African cultures on the formation of the Barbadian society. That coincidence of history not only created the unique fraternal bond that characterizes the relationship between the Caribbean and Africa but also serves to make us uniquely aware of the interactions that the slave trade generated throughout the world among the different peoples involved. Barbados supports the call of the Director- General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for all peoples to eradicate through their actions the vestiges of slavery and to combat all new forms of servitude that represent intolerable violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Indeed, Barbados asserts that international peace and security can best be achieved through the building of tolerance based on recognition of cultural, racial and religious diversity. The fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly has before it a number of issues that have the potential to shape the nature and direction of international relations for many years to come. Barbados intends to play an active role in its deliberations.I would like to extend my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. My delegation wishes to assure you of its full support and cooperation during your tenure of office. I also express my appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his leadership and tireless work over the past year. I also extend my appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan and his staff for their continuous hard work and commitment. The Secretary-General’s personal dedication and leadership in the work of the United Nations, especially his efforts for global peace and stability, are an inspiration to us all. Those efforts are all the more necessary in the light of what many of us here have described as disturbing world developments. On behalf of the Government of Brunei Darussalam, I wish to extend our sympathy and condolences to the Governments and the peoples of the United States and the Caribbean countries for the devastation caused by the recent hurricanes. Since its establishment 59 years ago, the United Nations has achieved much, especially in ensuring international peace and security and creating a stable and prosperous world. There has not been a world war since its inception, and it has had a positive impact in many fields, such as peacekeeping, the eradication of various diseases and socio-economic development. We highly commend those efforts and value the sacrifices of those involved. However, the achievements of the United Nations have been undermined by increasingly complex international developments. In his annual report on the work of the Organization (A/59/1), the Secretary- 7 General stated that the United Nations has been through an extraordinarily challenging year. It was the year in which the Iraq war brought the debate on the United Nations role into sharper focus. Moreover, our Organization is still preoccupied with many unresolved issues. Among others, the Palestinian conflict remains a grave concern. Terrorism and weapons of mass destruction continue to pose serious threats. At the same time, poverty, environmental degradation and the spread of disease cause further misery and hardship for millions. Those issues demand our effective response, which will ultimately define the relevance of our Organization. We therefore need more than ever a strong and effective United Nations, one that is able to promote world peace and development. It must also give hope and purpose to the people who increasingly look to it to improve their lives. However, the United Nations cannot do all that on its own. For it to carry out its responsibilities effectively, Member States need to work together, contribute resources and honour their commitments. As we work collectively to meet today’s complex challenges, we must continue to adhere to the principles enshrined in the Charter. All the various conventions and treaties, from nuclear non- proliferation to environmental conservation, are manifestations of how we and the United Nations aim to protect our people and ensure that they can live to their fullest potential. In that regard, I wish to congratulate the Secretary-General for his address to the General Assembly, in which he emphasized the importance of those issues. It is through our reaffirmation of the Charter’s principles that we can effectively uphold human ideals, enhance security and stability and promote sustainable development. Without doubt, the United Nations is the most universal international body for providing a multilateral response. We need to reform the United Nations urgently so that it can be better equipped. In that regard, Brunei Darussalam fully supports the Secretary-General’s efforts to strengthen and revitalize the United Nations. In particular, we welcome the work of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, which he has set up to address this. We believe that United Nations reform should be comprehensive and include an expanded and more representative Security Council, a revitalized role for the General Assembly and better coordination among United Nations agencies. The interest a number of countries have shown in serving as permanent members of the Security Council is a clear indication of the desire for change. Next year, the Assembly will consider the report of the High-level Panel and the recommendations of the Secretary-General. I realize how difficult it is to find a solution that is acceptable to all, but it is incumbent upon Member States to make a difference by implementing the much-needed reforms. Thus, a willingness to find a balanced set of proposals will be necessary. We look forward to the report, which, hopefully, will make the necessary bold and realistic proposals in order to end the decade-long debate on this issue. Next year will be a critical time for us as we review implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. To ensure that the commitments set forth in the Millennium Declaration are implemented on schedule, we must act without delay. As for Brunei Darussalam, we are doing our part to achieve those goals. As we begin to look into our agenda for this session, we must remain focused on the issues affecting many innocent lives in Palestine. Recent developments, such as the illegal construction of the wall in the occupied Palestinian territories, must be stopped and reversed. The advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice and the subsequent General Assembly resolution ES-10/15 reflect the international community’s overwhelming support for ending injustice in the occupied territories. The concerned parties must do all they can to prevent the situation from deteriorating. They must make serious efforts to honour their obligations as outlined in the road map. It is critical that progress should be made so that we can find a comprehensive, just and durable solution to that longstanding conflict. The situation in other parts of the Middle East, such as Iraq, has created enormous anxiety. We acknowledge the central role of the United Nations and the efforts of other countries and parties in addressing the political and humanitarian dimensions of the problems. In our region, we recognize that the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula has a serious impact on the peace, stability and security of the Asian-Pacific region. We appreciate the role of China, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Russia and the United States in 8 seeking a solution through dialogue in the six-party talks. It is important that all parties concerned continue their efforts to achieve a peaceful solution to the issue. We are deeply saddened by the horrifying scenes of harm inflicted upon innocent people by terrorist acts. Brunei Darussalam would like to convey its great sympathy to the Governments and the peoples of the countries in Asia, the Middle East and Europe that have been targeted by terrorist attacks in the past year. We strongly condemn those atrocious acts. Terrorism affects all of us — women and men, adults and children, developed and developing countries. It knows no boundaries. It has no ethnic, racial or religious affinities. Despite concerted efforts, devastating incidents this year have heightened the threats and challenges posed by terrorism. Those acts are becoming more complex, and our fight against them is far from over. It is therefore important to address this problem in a comprehensive manner. In doing so, we need to identify this problem’s real source and root causes. This is what we have to bear in mind if we are to achieve a long-term solution. At the same time, we must not allow terrorists to divide us and undermine our determination to fight this menace collectively. The challenges that we face require us to move forward to ensure that the United Nations continues to play its pivotal role. I am confident, Mr. President, that under your able leadership, the General Assembly will achieve success and make the decisions necessary to fulfil the hopes and expectations of the peoples it represents. Our tasks are great, but so also are our capabilities when we all work together.It gives me pleasure to begin my remarks by congratulating Mr. Ping on the vote of confidence represented by his election as President of the current session of the Assembly. Given his wisdom and organizational skills, I am confident that he will be able to lead our deliberations successfully. Thus, his positive input will further enhance the stature and effectiveness of the United Nations at a time of profound and unprecedented transformation on the world scene. I wish also to commend the efforts and wisdom of his predecessor for his remarkable stewardship. Furthermore, Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, deserves our gratitude for his persistent efforts to live up to the demands of his office in the face of complex and daunting challenges and surprises. Undoubtedly, the events of the past two years — specifically from the period prior to and after the occupation of Iraq — have shown clearly that, in today’s world, unilateralism in determining international action inevitably leads to the proliferation of hotbeds of tension, in addition to jeopardizing international peace and security. At the same time, those events have further demonstrated the relevance of multilateralism in global decision-making through international institutions, especially this world body. Given that the United Nations represents a superior form of multilateralism, because it brings together Member States to address common concerns over the maintenance of collective security and to face universal challenges, it is only logical that we all should join together to protect it against marginalization and to safeguard and strengthen its role. Thus, we should not allow the will of one Power, or of a certain group of Powers, to direct the actions of the United Nations system or permit it to be used to advance their agenda without regard for the wishes and interests of the rest of the membership. A case in point, in our view, is the need to reconsider the decision-making process in the Security Council, its composition and membership. The realities of our contemporary world and the imperatives of 38 global security, which is indivisible, must be fully taken into consideration in any review exercise. No single State or group of States can alone guarantee global security or assume the responsibility of that undertaking without active participation by other States. In addition, decisions that are not in line with international law, the Charter of the United Nations or the view of the majority of the membership should be vehemently opposed. As this session coincides with the third anniversary of the 11 September tragedy, once again the Republic of Yemen reaffirms its commitment to fight extremism and terrorism within the framework established and led by the United Nations. Yemen, for its part, has made great progress in combating terrorism and terrorists. The most recent achievement involved defeating a group that had rebelled against the Constitution and the rule of law in the Sa’dah region in Yemen. Those rebels had resorted to terrorism in order to achieve their goals. Their terrorist acts harmed innocent civilians and disrupted security and stability in the area. The Government of Yemen, while fully responsible for the safety and security of its citizens and the homeland, remains faithful to its international commitment to combat terrorism. Our conviction is that terrorism has no specific identity or particular religion. The struggle for national liberation or to end foreign occupation is a legitimate right under the Charter of the United Nations, international law and the basic principles of justice and human rights. Such a struggle can therefore not be treated as terrorism. In addition, Yemen’s experience in combating terrorism has taught us that in order effectively to battle terrorism, all possible resources must be deployed, including its root causes, dialogue, the promotion of development and justice, in addition to good security and intelligence work. Yemen is a strong believer in the United Nations. However, we believe that, despite all the efforts made by the dynamic Secretariat of this great institution, the gaps between rich and poor countries are widening. That is partly due to current economic policies that strengthen the dominance of wealthy nations over poor countries. Today more than ever we need to examine in earnest the imbalances in international economic relations. The first step we expect in this regard is the fulfilment by wealthier nations of the pledges and undertakings announced in their initiatives for achieving economic balance between the rich and the poor. Failure to do so, as I presume all of us recognize, would deepen the sense of bitterness felt by the poor countries. It might also breed extremism and violence to which no country would be immune. In that context, the Government of the Republic of Yemen believes that the recognition by the leaders of the Group of Eight industrial nations that the consolidation of peace in the Middle East and the promotion of economic growth and political development through a process of overall development in all countries of the region — as outlined in the G-8 declaration adopted at their most recent Summit in Sea Island, Georgia, United States — represents a very significant statement and a positive strategic challenge of interest to us and to the international community in general. It is indeed a challenge, because this long- overdue vision seeks to correct a chronic anomaly. It is also a challenge because of its positive implications and the shift in focus it can bring in favour of global stability and international peace and security once that abstract concept is translated into concrete and meaningful steps on the ground. That will require genuine partnerships and the abandoning of policies of coercion. Proceeding from these convictions, Yemen welcomed that initiative and agreed to participate in the G-8 Sea Island Summit for two reasons: first, because that vision is in line with our national plan for reform, and, secondly, because we welcome any partnership between Arab States, the European Union, the United States of America and the world at large that enhances our development and stability and contributes to the fight against terrorism. The commitment of my Government to build a better future for the people of Yemen and the people of our region has prompted us to institute numerous economic and political reforms, broaden popular involvement in governance, and strengthen our partnership with other countries and entities. This was highlighted in the Sana’a Declaration on Democracy, Human Rights and the Role of the International Criminal Court, adopted earlier this year at the Sana’a Intergovernmental Regional Conference. 39 A number of other countries, represented by their Governments, Parliaments and civil society, regional and international organizations, took part in that forum. The Forum was organized in response to reform initiatives that came from the Governments and peoples of the region. It stressed that good democratic governance and respect for human rights require full mobilization of the energies and potential of civil society. They also require interaction among all stakeholders, with a sense of responsibility and partnership with Governments, and support from outside the region, in order to use overall development as a vehicle towards stability, progress and movement on the road towards democracy and overall human development. No one can ignore the great achievements made by our Organization in promoting peace, security and welfare over the course of its rich history. But one should, by the same token, admit that it has failed to resolve numerous conflicts that have endangered, and continue to endanger, the security and stability of many nations and peoples. Foremost among these dangers is the Arab-Israeli conflict. Certainly, the United Nations has failed to put an end to ongoing Israeli aggression against the Palestinian people and to Israel’s repeated threats against Arab countries. Also, there are many trouble spots and areas of conflict across the globe that the United Nations must address effectively if we want international peace and security to prevail. The position of the Republic of Yemen regarding the question of Palestine is abundantly clear. It is based on the principles laid out by the Quartet in the road map, and on those contained in the Arab Peace Initiative. This Initiative calls for the establishment of a State of Palestine with full sovereignty over its territory and with Jerusalem as its capital; Israel’s withdrawal from all Arab territories occupied since 4 June 1967; and the return of refugees to their homes. All along, Yemen has maintained that peace in the Middle East will elude us as long as Israel is allowed to manoeuvre and circumvent United Nations resolutions. We also believe that Israel will not accept the aforesaid solutions unless a Security Council resolution is adopted with a view to imposing a solution on Israel that includes an enforcement mechanism. Contrary to our hopes, the entire question has become even more intractable and difficult to comprehend, especially given the use of the veto power against any proposed resolution that would force Israel to implement United Nations resolutions. This has encouraged Israel to persist in constructing the racially-based separation wall, which aggravates the suffering of the Palestinian people and is taking away sizeable tracts of their remaining land, in defiance of global consensus and of the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice (ICJ). We wish to emphasize here that, as recent events have demonstrated, the wall cannot guarantee security to Israel. Israel’s genuine security could be achieved if it were to accept the road map and commit itself to implementing relevant United Nations resolutions. We demand that the Security Council ensure the physical safety of the Palestinian President, Yasser Arafat, provide protection for the Palestinian people against Israeli state-sponsored terrorism, and show respect for the wishes and the will of the Palestinian people. In addition, Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Syrian and Lebanese territories is an integral part of any Middle East peace initiative. I wish to recall in this regard that the Arab Peace Initiative represents an Arab consensus for the resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Furthermore, my Government considers inadmissible the threats that the Israeli military machine fires against sister Syria and against Iran from time to time. This represents irresponsible provocation that exacerbates the already tense situation in the region. The timing of these threats further fuels violence and frustrates peace endeavours aimed at finding a just and negotiated settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict. They also represent an attempt by the Israeli Government to distract attention from its failure to ensure security for its citizens. The time has come for Israel to recognize that its stability and acceptance by countries of the region will remain unfulfilled unless it implements the road map and relevant United Nations resolutions, and withdraws from the occupied Arab territories in Palestine, the Golan and the Shab’a farms. In the same context, I wish to affirm my country’s support for United Nations efforts regarding the convening of a disarmament conference which aims, inter alia, at the establishment of the Middle East region as a zone free of weapons of mass destruction. To this end, Israel must accede to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. 40 The current violence in Iraq, and the violation of human rights and bloodshed of our Iraqi brothers is an inevitable outcome of an invasion. Thus, it is incumbent upon the United Nations to fulfil its role, as set forth in relevant resolutions, regarding the need to provide support to Iraq with a view to restoring peace and stability throughout the country. The interim Iraqi Government should be empowered to exercise full sovereignty in order to lead Iraq towards holding democratic elections and forming a constitutional Government that represents the will of the Iraqi people, restores law and order and puts an end to the occupation of the country. The tragic situation unfolding today in Iraq, in the wake of the downfall of Saddam Hussein’s regime, has resulted in terrorism, violations and chaos, which all of us can see. That situation may take Iraq down a slippery slope of sectarian violence and conflict which, in turn, will threaten the unity and future of Iraq. Yemen believes that all of us should assist and support the interim Government in Iraq and the national and legislative councils to overcome the current critical transitional stage in accordance with Security Council resolution 1546 (2004), with a view toward safeguarding the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Iraq. Also, we must ensure that the forthcoming period leading to parliamentary elections and the formation of a national Government will reflect the will of the Iraqi people without external interference. All effort should be made to develop and define political solutions for the complex situation, and to provide to the interim Government all it may need in order to achieve a successful outcome. Priority should be given to enabling the Iraqi Government to start the process of national reconciliation, ensuring the participation of all factions and political groups in defining the future of Iraq and closing the annals of the past. We also call for an end to violence against civilians, as well as excessive military reactions by the occupation forces, which victimize innocent civilians and lead to further destruction, pushing moderates towards extremism. In view of Yemen’s sense of fraternal responsibility towards Iraq, we submitted to the last Arab summit in Tunis, an initiative conceived on the basis of a set of firm principles set forth in United Nations resolutions. In essence, the initiative contained guiding principles for assisting the brotherly people of Iraq to overcome their current crisis. It also called for setting timelines to link efforts to restore security and stability with ending of the occupation. In the meantime, Yemen supports any Arab or international endeavour that might help Iraq move safely to achieve peace, stability and national unity. My country believes that national reconciliation based on dialogue and national unity is a viable path toward settling the long-running dispute and conflict in Somalia. Therefore, we congratulate the Somali leaders on the progress they have so far achieved within the framework of the reconciliation process. At the same time, we call upon all warring factions in Somalia to build on that success and to put the highest national interests of Somalia ahead of their own agendas. Yemen, which has played a leading role in promoting national reconciliation in Somalia, calls upon the United Nations and the international community to assume fully and effectively their responsibilities in order to bring about peace and security in Somalia. The Yemeni Government appreciates the current efforts being made to assist the national reconciliation talks in Somalia to reach a successful outcome, that is the formation of a consultative council, election of a President for the country, and formation of an interim Government that will lead Somalia towards drafting a new constitution and setting up a democratic system of government. Yemen, of course, will align itself with the good offices of the Governments of Djibouti, Ethiopia and Kenya, and supported by the European Union and the United States, to promote reconciliation. The Republic of Yemen has been closely following the humanitarian situation in the Darfur province of sisterly Sudan. I wish to underline here the decisions adopted by the Council of Arab Foreign Ministers, which met at the headquarters of the Arab League early last August. That meeting was also attended by the head of the African Union Commission and the Foreign Minister of Nigeria representing President Obasanjo of Nigeria — the current Chairman of the African Union. We wish also to reaffirm the decisions adopted in this regard by the Council of Arab Foreign Ministers in its regular session on 14 and 15 September. Those decisions reflected the joint Arab-African position regarding the situation in Darfur. They affirmed the need to address the matter within the African Arab framework. They also rejected all attempts to create a rift in Arab-African relations and stressed that there was no hard evidence of genocide. Furthermore, the meeting underlined the responsibility 41 of the Government of the Sudan for maintaining security and stability, providing protection for its citizens and disarming all militias in the region. The success of the Sudanese Government in achieving those goals will depend on the degree of international support and humanitarian relief assistance provided to it. All external parties must also refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of the Sudan. The Government of the Sudan must assume its responsibility for deploying its forces so as to ensure security, provide protection for all of its citizens and confront all of the armed groups responsible for the crisis. In the meantime, all the logistical support needed by the Government of Sudan should be provided by the African Union and Arab States with a view to achieving those objectives. The Sudan’s response to relevant Security Council resolutions, including the steps it has begun to take, clearly demonstrate its genuine commitment to its undertakings. Furthermore, we call on the United Nations, especially the Security Council, to address the issue on the basis of an accurate assessment of the situation in Darfur which obviously has begun to improve. We must avoid favouring one side at the expense of the other. We should also shift our focus to address the humanitarian situation without regard to political considerations or motives. All of the parties to the Darfur dispute, including the Government of the Sudan, should be urged to participate constructively and unconditionally in peace talks, with a view to achieving a just solution to the crisis. Any attempt to use blackmail or to exploit events to the advantage of the rebel groups must be rejected. Any party that violates its commitments, as verified by a neutral security monitoring mechanism, should be held accountable. The Government of the Republic of Yemen stresses that threatening or imposing a unilateral boycott or economic sanctions, as practised against some Member States, would constitute an explicit violation of the principles of international law — regardless of the fact that such practices have failed on the ground in more than one case. Indeed, sanctions and boycotts aggravate the suffering of innocent civilians and lead to the escalation of hostilities. My country supports the call by the United Nations to end unilateral measures, and it affirms the need to promote a culture of dialogue and understanding, even when dealing with controversial issues. That should, indeed, be the rational and civilized approach that all of us should pursue in resolving our disputes and mending our relationships. Finally, my delegation wishes the General Assembly every success as it endeavours to fulfil its mandate during this session, with a view to reinforcing our common action to promote peace, security and welfare for all. It is our hope that the ongoing reform of the United Nations will achieve the long-awaited objectives, including equitable representation in the Security Council. That would enhance the Council’s effectiveness and credibility and enable it to adapt better to the constantly changing landscape of international relations. I take this opportunity to reaffirm that the Republic of Yemen will support any efforts aimed at strengthening the role of the United Nations and enhancing its credibility, safeguarding the sovereignty and will of its Member States and pooling our energies to create a better future for humankind.Through the founding of the United Nations almost 60 years ago, humankind raised its mutual cooperation to an entirely new level. 31 Prior to that, humankind painfully came to realize, through a catastrophe of unimaginable dimensions, the inseparable link between its fate and the urgent need for international cooperation. Today the fate of humankind is even more crucially linked than ever before. The boundaries between the problems of “others” and “our” problems are being increasingly erased. This applies to a wide range of areas: from security and social welfare to the economy and the environment. For this reason, world problems demand solidarity and the additional commitment of the international community to help those in need and to ensure that everyone will share in the fruits of technological progress. In this spirit, Slovenia supports the report of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization and its emphasis on the urgent need to ensure the conditions for a just and fair globalization. The Millennium Goals represent a major commitment to resolving problems of the modern world. But the developmental goals for bridging the gap between rich and poor are not being realized to a satisfactory extent. Existing international mechanisms and institutions are not ensuring that the trends of increasing global imbalance can be turned around for the better. We need change that will break through the inertia of established systems of operation. And for this we need new approaches: introducing innovative sources of financing world development can be one such approach. It is time for us to realize the urgent need for change in world relations, and to summon the necessary will to put these changes into effect and thereby raise international cooperation to a new level. The past year was again marked by international terrorism, which claimed countless innocent lives. We witnessed with pain the tragedies in Beslan, Moscow, Madrid, Istanbul, Riyadh, Haifa and elsewhere. International terrorism is erasing the boundary between peace and war. The common fight against international terrorism and its origins must remain one of the priority tasks of individual Members and of the entire United Nations. This also applies to preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. The unanimous Security Council resolution is a welcome step towards effective cooperation in this area. When we combat the universal evil of terrorism, we should not do this at the expense of the existing legal standards of human rights and international humanitarian law. Any lowering of these standards will be repaid to us in a reduction of the legitimacy of international action — and consequently in a creation of fertile ground for further attacks on human security. We should also draw attention to the responsibility of countries, in accordance with the principles of good governance, to ensure for their citizens the necessary conditions for a secure and decent life. In that context, we must express our concern at the humanitarian situation in Darfur, and we welcome the efforts of the United Nations and the international community to seek a way out of the crisis. The increasingly direct contacts among cultures and civilizations bring new challenges and new opportunities. Let us exploit them for mutual enrichment and the formulation of a common consciousness of humankind. We will be able to do that only with the presumption of radical equality and the tolerant acceptance of plurality in human values. The boundaries of the plurality of those values are delineated by fundamental human rights and freedoms. The United Nations plays a central part in asserting them internationally. Slovenia welcomes the start of work by the new High Commissioner for Human Rights, Louise Arbour, and assures her of our full willingness to cooperate. At the same time, we express our continued support of the International Criminal Court, which represents an important instrument for the exercise of the rule of law and human rights. Only a multilateral response to modern challenges can be effective. Of all existing organizations, the United Nations is without doubt the most important and most appropriate for seeking such responses. However, it is in need of institutional reform, so that its structure — the structure of 60 years ago — can now better reflect the realities of today’s world. Solutions to the burning issues facing humankind must be sought within the United Nations system, otherwise solutions will be imposed outside it. Frequently, that will undoubtedly be to the detriment of human development. Slovenia supports the efforts to revitalize the General Assembly and acknowledges the achievements of Julian Hunte, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, in that area. We eagerly await 32 the report of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change at the end of the year, and we express our willingness to cooperate fully. We hope that, on the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations, we will see such changes, which will ensure for this global Organization a central place and the greatest possible effectiveness in performing its mission. Increasingly, threats to international peace and security are taking on new forms, which for a long time now have not been limited to the danger of aggression by one country against another. They cover a whole range of internal tensions and conflicts within countries, on the one hand, and transboundary threats such as international terrorism, environmental pollution and the asymmetrical effects of globalization, on the other. In modern threats to international peace and security, States are not the only players. For that reason alone, States cannot on their own provide a satisfactory response to them. Intergovernmental cooperation needs to be supplemented through the inclusion of various non- governmental organizations and global civil society. I would like also to highlight the responsibility and potential of transnational corporations to contribute to protecting the environment and to eliminating the tensions caused by global competitive models. Non-governmental organizations can contribute to solutions through innovative approaches and by going beyond the limitations of established bureaucratic frameworks. They can help to create a critical mass of awareness regarding the urgent need for change and the elimination of global imbalances. By incorporating the contribution of various segments of global society into the work of the United Nations, we will make it more sensitive to the actual problems of people in various parts of the world. In that context, we welcome the report of the Panel of Eminent Persons on United Nations-Civil Society Relations, since it sets out a range of useful proposals regarding the contribution of non- governmental actors. The complexity of modern threats to world peace and security also require a strengthening of the cooperation between various regional organizations and the United Nations. In this respect, we welcome the open debate in the Security Council on this subject. Such cooperation is especially welcome in cases where regional intervention can be more rapid and effective in conflict prevention and in post-conflict peace- building. Next year Slovenia will assume the presidency of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and in that capacity as well we will strive for a further intensification of the good cooperation between the two organizations. In that spirit, the European Union is assuming increasing responsibility for stabilization and progress in the countries of south-eastern Europe. In the past year we have witnessed major progress on the part of the countries in the region. However, in some areas we also saw a resurgence of the dangers created by still- unresolved inter-ethnic issues and a lack of socio- economic prospects. The goal of attaining democratic standards, including in the areas of human rights and the protection of minorities, must remain at the centre of our efforts. At the same time, however, we have to note that certain unresolved status questions hamper the political and economic consolidation of the region. We will thus have to devote greater attention to resolving those questions. Globalization is erasing geographical boundaries and reducing the physical distances between people. At the same time, however, it is increasing the differences between rich and poor — between those who are sharing in the positive effects of globalization and those who are being pushed even further to the margins. Frequently we forget that not even those who derive the greatest benefit from globalization can protect themselves from its negative effects. Not even the richest and most technically advanced of us can isolate ourselves from international terrorism or from the effects of climate change and extreme poverty. For that reason, our common commitment and responsibility must be to ensure that all people benefit from the positive effects of globalization, and that, through our joint efforts, we ensure the protection of the environment. We can achieve this only through the broadest possible partnership and solidarity. There are more than enough signals that it is now high time for coordinated international action.Mr. President, on behalf of the United Arab Emirates, it gives me great pleasure to begin my statement by congratulating you, Sir, and your friendly country, the Gabonese Republic, on your election as President of the fifty-ninth session of this Assembly. Given your political skills and experience, we are confident that you will competently and successfully lead our deliberations on pressing global and regional issues. We wish you every success in your endeavours. On this occasion, I wish to pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, for his wise and skilful management of the activities of the previous session. It also gives me pleasure to reiterate our appreciation and gratitude to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his consistent efforts to strengthen the leading role of the United Nations, especially in resolving the political conflicts and economic crises that continue to plague our world. Notwithstanding the achievements of the last century and their positive impact on the principles of liberalization, globalization and freedom, recent events, especially during the last few years, have included, violations of human rights, the outbreak of terrorist attacks and the eruption of violence and conflicts. These events have, to a great extent, limited peoples’ ability to reap the benefits of most of these achievements. Instead of directing efforts towards solving the problems related to poverty, the spread of epidemics, improving sustainable economic, environmental and social development mechanisms and strengthening international relations — as outlined in the Millennium Declaration — the world had to devote a great part of its efforts to further exploring coordinated measures for combating these grave threats, which have shaken the underpinnings of international peace and security. Previous experience has shown that regional and international multilateral initiatives built on principles of partnership, justice, transparency and equality among peoples and States can address and contain global challenges. Therefore, we are convinced that carrying out the reform needed in the existing structures of international relations, especially in the United Nations system, has become an important priority so that its principal organs — the Security Council, the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council — can revitalize their activities and fulfil their responsibilities in terms of maintaining international peace and security. Commitment by all countries and governments to discharge their responsibilities in accordance with the principles of international law is a key condition for enforcing the rule of law and avoiding potential economic, environmental and security problems. Therefore, the United Arab Emirates, as a Member of the United Nations, is committed to meet its obligations, especially those related to promoting friendly relations with neighbouring countries, cooperation in the security and economic fields and respect for the sovereignty, national unity and territorial integrity and the right to self-determination of all countries. Proceeding from its belief in the value of dialogue, peaceful negotiations and legal arbitration in settling conflicts and disputes among countries, the United Arab Emirates has pursued a firm and peaceful policy regarding the question of the occupation by the Islamic Republic of Iran of our three islands: Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb and Abou Moussa. The international community is now aware of the legal, historical and political grounds of this case, as well as all the initiatives, contacts and constant efforts by my country at various levels to find a peaceful solution to this question. The United Arab Emirates is perplexed at the position of Iran and its constant rejection of all peaceful initiatives and endeavours by the member States of the Gulf Cooperation Council to find a peaceful solution to this important issue. Therefore, the United Arab Emirates calls upon the international community to urge Iran either to clarify its intentions towards the United Arab Emirates by entering unconditionally into serious bilateral negotiations which ensure restoration of the three occupied islands, their continental shelves and regional airspace and their economic zones to the full sovereignty and territorial unity of the United Arab Emirates, or to accept referral of this case to the International Court of Justice for arbitration. 44 The regrettable developments taking place on the security front in the Arabian Gulf region have created serious challenges to the international community due to the sensitive nature of this region and the emergence of new forms of threats, which include terrorist acts, kidnappings and arbitrary killing of hundreds of innocent people in various areas in Iraq and other countries. In this context, the United Arab Emirates expresses its strong condemnation of all acts of violence in Iraq, which if not contained will lead to an escalation of tension and instability in the entire region, as well as the world. We also express our support to the legitimate endeavours of the Iraqi people and their interim Government to complete arrangements for a peaceful transition of authority as soon as possible, to exercise their inalienable right to decide their political future and internal affairs, control their natural resources, rebuild their national institutions and maintain security on their borders. We also attach great importance to supporting international and regional efforts to help the Iraqi people to rehabilitate their destroyed institutions, and to the unity and solidarity of the Iraqi people especially during this critical stage, in order to enable them to start a new phase in which security, stability, good- neighbourly relations and cooperation with all countries of the world prevail. The United Arab Emirates reiterates its strong condemnation of all acts of terrorism in the Gulf region, especially in the fraternal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other areas where a number of residential areas were targets of horrific terrorist attacks. The United Arab Emirates declares its full support for the continuing efforts and measures taken by these countries to combat those inadmissible acts, including those by the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to defeat those criminal terrorist attempts inside Saudi territory. The United Arab Emirates believes that settlement of the Middle East question cannot be achieved with the position of a de facto situation of occupation, settlement, and siege of the Palestinian people, who are now facing the worst humanitarian crisis in their history because of the acts of arbitrary killing, destruction, starvation and unjustified mass detentions by the Israeli authorities. The United Arab Emirates affirms that continuation of the Israeli aggression will inevitably lead to more violence and deterioration in the security situation. We therefore recall the historical, political and legal responsibility of the United Nations and the Quartet, which is now responsible for finding a settlement of the Palestinian question through obliging Israel, the occupying Power, to unconditionally comply with the terms of the road map and other relevant international resolutions, especially those issued by the International Court of Justice and the General Assembly that call for dismantling the racist separation wall in the West Bank, as it is considered illegal and null and void. We also affirm that establishment of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the region depends on the ability of the international community to end Israel’s intransigence, on revitalization of the peace process and on full Israeli withdrawal from all Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem, the Syrian Golan and the Shab’a farms. It depends also on the establishment of a Palestinian State with its capital at Al-Quds al- Sharif, pursuant to the relevant international resolutions and the fundamentals of the existing Arab peace initiative, which is based on the principle of land for peace. In that context, we also affirm the importance of respecting the wishes of the Lebanese people and of not interfering in its internal affairs. Attaining and maintaining balance in the security situation in the Middle East and the Gulf region is today a matter of high priority. It requires a comprehensive, non-discriminatory, confidence- building policy that will lead to the elimination of all existing arsenals of weapons of mass destruction as part of an international process of non-proliferation. Here, we look forward to the outcome of the recent visit of the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to a number of countries in the region, which was aimed at convincing their Governments to relinquish the nuclear arsenals that pose a threat to neighbouring countries. In that connection, we renew our appeal to the international community to take all necessary measures to compel the Israeli Government to accede to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and to subject all its nuclear facilities to the IAEA international safeguards system, so that a zone free of weapons of mass destruction can be established in the Arabian Gulf and the Middle East regions. 45 Reports of the Secretary-General on the world economic and social situation reveal that almost a billion people lack food, drinking water, job opportunities, housing and educational, health and social services. The United Arab Emirates has a good record of providing development and relief assistance to many countries, and we believe that the international community should address those challenges as its common responsibility, requiring complete fulfilment of the commitments and pledges made by developed nations at United Nations conferences and summits on sustainable development and on financing for development. Those pledges relate to increasing assistance to developing countries, rescheduling foreign debt, easing restrictions on foreign trade, increasing foreign investment and providing access to modern technologies for peaceful purposes. That would enable developing countries to share equally in the benefits of globalization. Further, we welcome current efforts to set up a global fund to end poverty by 2015. Here, we affirm that there must be progress in negotiations on North- South cooperation and on coordination among regional and international organizations if we are to put an end to the negative effects of repeated financial and economic crises and ensure steady assistance flows and the stability of commodity markets. Policies and choices to liberalize world trade and the world economy must be reviewed from a development perspective, taking into account the concerns and needs of small countries and developing countries, and their right to attain development and participate in the international decision-making process. This would enable their economies to avoid stagnation and marginalization, and would ensure the implementation of national programmes to diversify national production, develop human resources and reduce levels of unemployment, poverty and disease. We hope that our deliberations at this session will have a positive outcome that will enhance our perception of our common causes and buttress our joint efforts to create a prosperous world based on the rule of law and justice, a world in which tolerance, well- being and progress prevail.First of all, Sir, let me add my voice to the congratulations on your election to the high office of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session and express confidence that, under your leadership, it will be successful and fruitful. I would like to begin by supporting the statement of Secretary-General Kofi Annan concerning the crucial importance of fostering the rule of law, both at home and in the framework of international relations, 29 for the solution of the topical issues of the modern world. Today, the whole system of international relations is under vicious attack. We are witnessing the growing reach and brutality of international terrorism and organized crime, the alarming degradation of our environment and the spread of poverty, misery and disease. Every year, we keep repeating that the challenges and threats to humanity have become global and that the international community should make joint efforts to address these challenges effectively and with determination. But, with our words still resonating in the air, these problems continue to place a heavy burden on human beings. For years, the international community has been ignoring the most burning problems of social and economic development and has failed to address poverty, misery, illiteracy and various forms of discrimination. As a result, we are faced with an unprecedented threat of international terrorism, which undermines the pillars of the world economy and security. Nevertheless, we have not yet done anything meaningful to get a detailed analysis of the ideology behind international terrorism, its institutional base and its sources of financing. In other words, the central nature of international terrorism remains terra incognita for all of us; we are familiar only with its ugly manifestations. Recent alarming developments in the world, especially the massacre in Beslan, have again highlighted the urgent need to reform the United Nations. We cannot meet new challenges and address today’s acute problems if we continue to rely on old approaches. The central issue of international security is turning the United Nations into an effective tool designed to strengthen regional and global security systems, the regime of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and management of globalization processes. As a matter of principle, we consider it important to ensure balance in the functioning of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, as envisioned in the Charter of this Organization. We insist on the need to strengthen the role of the General Assembly in the settlement of the most important issues facing humanity today. In our view, the international community’s efforts to combat terrorism and to settle armed conflicts can be more effective only on the basis of such an approach. Kazakhstan has supported the Secretary- General’s decision to establish a high-level panel on United Nations reform. We believe that this panel, with its broad mandate and wide-ranging powers, should arrive at an acceptable solution to this present crucial issue. Kazakhstan holds the view that, in its current form, the Security Council no longer reflects the realities of our world. I share the opinion of the Prime Minister of Japan, Mr. Junichiro Koizumi, that the “enemy State” clauses in the United Nations Charter are obsolete. The Security Council should be revitalized by the addition of new permanent and non- permanent members. Asia, Africa and Latin America should have a wider representation in the Security Council and should be directly involved in the search for solutions to the important problems facing the international community. Kazakhstan calls for the establishment of a council of regional organizations under the auspices of the United Nations Secretary-General. Close attention should be paid to the proposal to establish an economic and social security council. We believe that these proposals reflect the need to strengthen global multilateral cooperation. Our country continues to believe that the United Nations is the only genuinely universal international organization responsible for the issues of war and peace, acting as a guarantor of international law. It is encouraging that the reform of the United Nations Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee is gaining momentum. With the current escalation of international terrorism, the role of this Committee should become more important; otherwise, global counter-terrorism efforts to address new challenges and threats will not be so effective, and this runs counter to the wishes of the peoples of the world. Mr. Belkhadem (Algeria),Vice-President, took the Chair. Our country supports the United Nations peacekeeping effort and the continued strengthening of its capacity in this area. With escalating humanitarian crises and armed conflicts, as effectively demonstrated by the developments in Darfur, the United Nations should pay special attention to the possibility of broader participation by authoritative regional and 30 subregional organizations in peacekeeping operations, which would allow a more effective and timely response to emerging threats. Yet, one key issue is the prevention of conflicts and crises. For this reason, Kazakhstan is a firm supporter of preventive diplomacy and continues to believe that the establishment of a Central Asian preventive diplomacy centre is a timely initiative. In our view, there is an urgent need to coordinate the efforts of the entire international community in the area of disarmament and arms control. We call for an early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear- Test-Ban Treaty and urge the Governments of those States that have not yet ratified this instrument to display political will and genuine commitment to nuclear disarmament. As one of the few States that have voluntarily given up their nuclear weapons, Kazakhstan is concerned by the current status of the Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty. This important treaty has been seriously eroded because of destructive actions on the part of a number of known States. We should recognize that the non-proliferation regime faces a formidable threat, and there is a real possibility of an uncontrolled spread of weapons of mass destruction and, most important, of terrorists getting hold of them. In view of this, we consider the establishment of a nuclear- weapon-free zone in Central Asia to be a very important and timely proposal. We believe that the negotiation process within the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva should be reactivated. In our view, the potential of this important forum is far from being tapped to its full extent. The Government of Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the consistent implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons, as discussed at a regional conference in Almaty in March of 2004. For us, it is very important that the Iraqi issue is again in the political realm of the United Nations. Emphasizing the need to ensure the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq, Kazakhstan welcomes the transfer of authority and responsibility for the administration of the country to the Interim Government of Iraq and calls on the Iraqi people to come together in the name of national unity and conciliation. The participation of a unit of the armed forces of Kazakhstan in the multinational force in Iraq is a demonstration of our country’s commitment to the implementation of its obligations towards the maintenance of international peace and security. Continued instability in the Middle East is a matter of grave concern to Kazakhstan. From our point of view, the resumption and advancement of the peace process, on all tracks, and the implementation by all parties to the conflict in the Middle East of their commitments, as reflected in the road map and relevant Security Council resolutions, should remain the main goal of all those concerned. Kazakhstan supports the efforts of the current Government in Afghanistan to consolidate peace and security in the country and address social, economic and humanitarian issues. We expect that the international community, starting with all the developed countries, will live up to their commitments with regard to the rehabilitation of Afghanistan. As for our country, we are ready to contribute to the process, within our means. We believe that the well-being of the Central Asian region is largely dependent on the normalization of the situation in Afghanistan. We have every reason to be concerned by such problems as the increasing spread of drugs, illegal migration and surging religious extremism. Together with poverty, ecological degradation and the lack of water resources, these phenomena provide a breeding ground for international terrorism, which is gaining force in our region. In view of that, Kazakhstan supports the activities of the United Nations Office on Drug and Crime in Central Asia, particularly the adoption of a regional plan of action to control the illicit spread of drugs in the States neighbouring Afghanistan and the establishment of a security belt around that country. We believe that the deployment in Afghanistan — under the auspices of NATO — of the International Security Assistance Force is an important factor in the restoration of peace and security in the country. Kazakhstan’s initiative regarding the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA) — already a fact of international life — is an effective tool designed to strengthen confidence and 31 security in Asia. The first CICA summit, held in June of 2002, became a milestone in that process and paved the way for practical efforts to institutionalize the Conference. The draft catalogue of confidence-building measures and the draft rules of procedure have already been agreed and are expected to be adopted at a ministerial meeting of the CICA countries, scheduled to be held in October 2004 in Almaty. The adoption of the catalogue will create a unique document encompassing a range of measures in the military, political, economic, cultural and environmental areas designed to strengthen security and confidence in Asia. As a newly independent State, Kazakhstan wants to contribute to global harmony and stability. The fact that our multi-ethnic State enjoys a large degree of inter-confessional and inter-ethnic accord says a lot; first of all, it is a confirmation that Kazakhstan has become an integral part of the civilized community. We categorically reject the concept of the clash of civilizations and consider it to be counterproductive and harmful, because it serves as a justification for international conflicts and the barbaric actions of international terrorists. Kazakhstan firmly believes that dialogue and harmony among civilizations are not only possible but also necessary. For that reason, our head of State initiated a congress of world religions, held in Astana in September of 2003. The success of that forum has strengthened our conviction that it is absolutely essential to establish a dialogue and ensure peaceful coexistence between religions and civilizations, in the interests of peace and global security. Kazakhstan reaffirms its strong commitment to integration and multilateral cooperation at the regional level. This approach, which promotes the sustainable social and economic development of Kazakhstan, is fully within our long-term interests. Such institutions as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Eurasian Economic Community, the Organization of Central Asian Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organization play an ever-increasing role in the efforts to strengthen security, develop economic cooperation and create conditions for the prosperity of our large region. We have great expectations regarding integration within the framework of the single economic space made up of the territories of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine. Our country also supports the strengthening of the capacity of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) as a major and influential international organization. Recently, President Nursultan Nazarbaev has made concrete proposals concerning the reform of the Commonwealth. Kazakhstan reaffirms its commitment to the implementation of its obligations towards the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and hopes that the upcoming ministerial meeting in Sofia will develop new approaches to the reform of that organization in order to adapt it to new challenges emerging from our region. We also commend the results of the cooperation with NATO within the framework of its Partnership for Peace programme and consider the possibility of increasing the level of our cooperation with that alliance. Kazakhstan continues to pay priority attention to the development of its cooperation with Russia, the United States, China, the countries of Central Asia, the European Union and the Asian and Islamic countries. We are now in a position to claim considerable progress in that area, which has allowed us to create favourable external conditions for liberal reforms in the country. Having been given the status of a market economy and enjoying a high rating in the financial community, Kazakhstan has been recognized by the international community as a leader among the post- Soviet States in practically all economic indicators, including direct foreign investments. We welcome the start of a direct dialogue between the Central Asian States and Japan and consider that form of cooperation to be very meaningful and promising. We also attach great importance to the partnership between our region and the United States in order to create a zone of free trade. The Almaty Programme of Action, adopted by the International Ministerial Conference of Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries and Donor Countries and International Financial and Development Institutions on Transit Transport Cooperation, held in August of 2003 in my country, has provided to the landlocked Central Asian States an important tool for the solution of their trade and transit problems. We hope that the needs of inland States will be duly taken into account in trade negotiations in order to provide appropriate privileges and preferences to that group of countries. 32 It is a well-established fact that the transportation policies of many countries, including Kazakhstan, are closely linked to the delivery of hydrocarbons to world markets. As a country with the potential to become a major world exporter of oil and gas, Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the determination of the legal status of the Caspian Sea and to the signing of a convention on that issue. An agreement by the littoral States on the use of the Caspian Sea exclusively for peaceful purposes has become an important accomplishment in the negotiation process. Kazakhstan holds the view that it is necessary to continue intensive efforts in a five-party format, gradually overcoming existing differences in the search for solutions that would agree with the fundamental principles of international law and promote the final determination of the legal status of the Caspian Sea. Kazakhstan is gravely concerned by the fate of another sea — the Aral Sea. The continued degradation of the environment of the region seriously affects the health and livelihood of the population. The situation in the Aral Sea region has acquired global dimensions; the salt from its seabed has long been present in the air in Europe and Asia, and even over the North Pole. Yet the international community, unfortunately, is not fully aware of the grave ramifications of this environmental disaster. Technical assistance and financial aid to the population of that long-suffering region have been sporadic. We believe that a special General Assembly resolution on the Aral Sea has long been overdue. We also urge the international community to reactivate fruitful cooperation in the solution of social and economic problems facing the population around the former Semipalatinsk nuclear testing ground. The people of the region were the unwitting victims of some 500 nuclear-weapons tests conducted in the heat of the global arms race. We are grateful to the Governments of Japan, the United States and other donor States for the due attention being paid by them to this screaming problem, yet we believe that, in this particular case, multilateral cooperation would have been more effective. The framework for such cooperation is already in place in the form of a relevant General Assembly resolution, whose potential has not been used to the full. In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that Kazakhstan will continue to exert every effort to strengthen global and regional stability, fight terrorism and meet other challenges that we face today.When we met a year ago, there was widespread concern that we had reached an impasse that threatened to paralyse the United Nations. I am happy to note today that this looming threat of division is receding and is being replaced by a renewed commitment to multilateralism. In that spirit, Denmark welcomes the Security Council's unanimous adoption of its resolution 1546 (2004), on Iraq. The resolution is, first and foremost, of great significance for the prospects of peace and stability in Iraq and throughout the region. It is also of great importance for the Security Councilís ability to perform its role as the custodian of international peace and security. The United Nations must play a leading role in the political process and in the reconstruction of Iraq. The wisdom and skill of the Secretary-General and his Special Adviser have advanced this process, and we hope that the advisory role of the United Nations will be further enhanced. We urge all Member States to support the interim Government of Iraq in its endeavours to establish peace and security in Iraq. The year 2005 will be the year in which Member Statesí willingness to work towards a strong, united and effective United Nations will be tested. The challenge is to develop credible, effective and comprehensive United Nations responses to the threats and challenges of the new millennium, whether they be conflict prevention, conflict resolution and peace- building, or the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, or respect for human rights and international law, last but certainly not least, the enormous challenge of achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 45 Denmark strongly supports the Secretary-General's High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change and looks forward to its report later this year. Efforts to reform the Organization, including enlarging the membership of the Security Council, must continue if the United Nations is to meet the new challenges. Democracy is also a question of representation, and if large parts of the world do not feel represented in the Security Council there is a risk that they will not feel bound by its decisions. The Security Council must reflect the realities of the world of today, not those of the past. We live in a world in which the distinction between military and non-military threats is increasingly blurred. Most current threats are complex and combine elements of both. Creating synergies among development, political and security components will be the key to the success of the United Nations. Denmark will endeavour to assist in this process across the full range of United Nations activities. Denmark is a candidate for election to the Security Council during this session of the General Assembly. If elected, the focus of Denmarkís tenure in the Council will be to seek new and more effective ways of integrating security and development and strengthening international law. In that connection, I welcome the Secretary-Generalís important opening statement in this debate (see ), in which he outlined the fundamental principles for a world order based on international law. Greater coherence is needed in international peace operations. We firmly believe that the United Nations needs to give civilian crisis management the same priority that is accorded to military crisis management. More than 40 per cent of countries emerging from conflict slide back into conflict. In order to build sustainable peace, much more attention needs to be given to the civilian aspects of crisis management. This includes the demobilization and reintegration of combatants as well as the social, economic and legal reconstruction of war-torn societies. We must make State-building a central goal of conflict management and peace-building, alongside the provision of basic security. Whatever mechanism we set up, the challenge is to ensure the involvement of all stakeholders. That includes national Governments, the Secretariat, United Nations development funds and programmes, the Bretton Woods institutions, regional organizations and bilateral donors. In order to improve compliance with Security Council resolutions, the process towards targeted and smarter sanctions should be continued. The challenge is twofold. First, the Security Council must rigorously implement its resolutions, including when they stipulate serious consequences in case of non- compliance. Secondly, the countries concerned must be given positive incentives to comply with those resolutions. Terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are serious threats to peace and security and impede progress towards stability and prosperity. Terrorists threaten the everyday life and values of millions of innocent individuals. Terrorists must be stopped by hard power and by soft power to prevent decades of unrest and terror. Countering new threats requires a multifaceted, integrated response by the United Nations and its partners. Success demands synergy, a finely tuned mix of diplomacy, aid, police efforts, intelligence, legal assistance and - if need be - military power. The United Nations must take a leading role in the fight against terrorism, providing both the framework for global efforts and the legitimacy for collective action. Terror must not lead to isolation; it must not stop globalization. In the world of today, huge global disparities in resources have become apparent to everybody. Social and economic exclusion, as well as deficient democracies, the absence of the rule of law and lack of respect for human rights, contribute to political radicalization and religious extremism. Ensuring that new generations have access to the benefits of globalization - such as democracy and hope for a better future - is a global challenge. The main responsibility for fighting terrorism lies with individual States. This includes compliance with relevant Security Council resolutions, as well as ratification and implementation of the 12 United Nations conventions against terrorism. Denmark supports efforts to reinvigorate the Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC). We support efforts to renew and upgrade the offer of technical assistance to countries that need it. The work of the CTC must be better focused and linked with the assistance extended to countries that have the will - but lack the means ó to meet the requirements of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). 46 Just as important, we must strengthen international agreements to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Denmark therefore supports Security Council resolution 1540 (2004), and looks forward to its full implementation. The United Nations has been instrumental in establishing the core international human rights conventions. This year we are celebrating the twenty- fifth anniversary of one of those conventions - the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. The importance of the elimination of discrimination against women and of ensuring respect for the right of women to decide freely over their own lives - including in matters relating to marriage, reproductive health and HIV/AIDS - is self-evident. This main message of the Cairo Programme of Action, adopted 10 years ago, is as relevant today as ever. With a view to eradicating torture, Denmark calls upon all States to sign and ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture, so that it can enter into force at an early date. We are now in the era of implementation of those human rights commitments that have been undertaken. As the main body in its field, the Commission on Human Rights has a crucial role to play in this respect and should be further strengthened. 2005 will be a defining moment for the United Nations. World leaders will meet in New York to take stock of progress in the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. That meeting will provide a unique opportunity to break new ground, push ahead with the interlinked agenda of peace, security and development and follow up the recommendations of the High-level Panel. A key priority for Denmark will be to speed up the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. The results so far are not sufficiently encouraging - especially with regard to Africa. Denmark attaches the highest priority to Africaís development and would like the situation there and its prospects to be high on the agenda at the 2005 summit. In order to reach the Millennium Development Goals, an effective partnership will be required between developed and developing countries. The gap between goals and resources must be closed. We are deeply concerned about the inadequacy of the current level of development financing. Further resources are needed, as is better coordination in their allocation. Last year, Denmark took the lead in making our commitments transparent in a Millennium Development Goals report. A new report will be published next month. We call on all other States to do likewise. Development efforts and conflict resolution in Africa must go hand in hand. Progress achieved in economic and social development will be sustainable only if we manage to put an end to conflict on the African continent. We stand ready to support the significant and sustained efforts undertaken by the Africans themselves in this regard. There is a need to further strengthen the African security architecture in cooperation with the African Union, subregional African organizations, the United Nations, the European Union and Governments acting bilaterally. We also need to strengthen the regional approaches of the United Nations in the field. Denmark stands ready to contribute actively. Furthermore, recent natural disasters illustrate the importance of dealing with international environmental issues such as climate change, biodiversity, deforestation and desertification. The Secretary-General has shown great leadership in pressing for strengthened and effective multilateralism, and things are slowly starting to come together. Our common voyage will not be over with the 2005 summit - far from it. The High-level Panel's report, a renewed focus on post-conflict intervention, and the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals can herald a new age of strong and effective multilateralism if, collectively, we rise to the challenge. The task of this generation is to hand the world to the next generation in better shape than we received it. Denmark will spare no effort in its endeavours to translate that vision into reality.Through Foreign Minister Jean Ping of Gabon, I greet the representatives of all peoples gathered here today. I fraternally salute Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who 5 has been guiding the work of the United Nations with wisdom and devotion. For the second time, I address this universal Assembly on behalf of Brazil. I have a lifelong commitment to those silenced by inequality, hunger and hopelessness. In the powerful words of Franz Fanon, the colonial past bestowed on them a common legacy: “If you so desire, take it: the freedom to starve to death”. Today, we are 191 nation-States. In the past, 125 of us were subjected to the oppression of a few Powers that originally occupied less than 2 per cent of the globe. The end of colonialism confirmed, in the political arena the right of peoples to self- determination. The Assembly is the highest expression of an international order based on the independence of nations. However, such a political transformation has not taken place in the economic and social fields, and history shows that that will not happen spontaneously. In 1820, the per capita income of the richest nation in the world was five times greater than that of the poorest one. Today, that disparity has reached a ratio of 80-to-1. The former subjects have become perpetual debtors in the international economic system. Protectionist barriers and other obstacles to balanced trade — aggravated by the concentration of investments, knowledge and technology — have followed colonial domination. A powerful, all- encompassing and invisible wheel runs the system from afar. It often revokes democratic decisions, causes the sovereignty of States to shrivel and imposes itself on elected Governments. It demands that legitimate national development projects be renounced. The perverse logic of draining the needy to irrigate the affluent still stands. In recent decades, an ill-inclusive and asymmetric globalization has deepened the devastating legacy of poverty and social regression, which is now bursting into the agenda of the twenty- first century. Today, in 54 countries, per capita income is lower than what it was 10 years ago; in 34 countries, life expectancy has decreased; and in 14 countries, a greater number of children are starving to death. In Africa, where colonialism resisted until the twilight of the twentieth century, 200 million people are caught in an existence marked by hunger, disease and neglect, to which the world has become oblivious, numbed by the routine of the distant suffering of others. Lack of basic sanitation has killed more children in the past decade than all military conflicts since the end of the Second World War. Love cannot spring from cruelty. Peace will never rise from poverty and hunger. The hatred and senselessness that are spreading throughout the world feed on despair and on the absolute lack of hope for many people. This year alone, more than 1,700 people have died as a consequence of terrorist attacks around the world — in Madrid, Baghdad and Jakarta. Those tragedies must be added to so many others in India, the Middle East and the United States, as well as to, more recently, the barbaric slaughter of children in Beslan. Mankind is losing the fight for peace. Only the enlightened values of humanism, applied with clarity of mind and determination, will be able to counter barbarism. This situation imposes a new sense of collective and individual responsibility on the peoples and the leaders of the world. If peace is our goal, it is our task to build it. If we wish to eliminate violence, we must address its deep-rooted origins with the same resolve employed against the agents of hatred. The path to lasting peace must encompass a new international political and economic order, one that extends real opportunities for economic and social development to all countries. It therefore requires reform of the global development model, as well as international institutions that are effectively democratic and based on multilateralism and on an acknowledgement of the rights and aspirations of all peoples. The tortured look in the eyes of the outcast should do more to stir our conscience than the no less dramatic statistics on social inequality. Their gaze calls to us for a future of hope. Just as our destinies are now intertwined, every conflict has global effects. When the sky is shown to us from between iron bars, let us not mistake the cage for freedom. We have the scientific knowledge and the scale of production necessary for resolving global economic and social challenges. Today, nature and progress can be reconciled by means of development models that are ethically and environmentally sustainable. Nature is not a museum of untouchable relics, but neither should it be further degraded by human and environmental exploitation in a search for wealth at any price. 6 A generation is remembered not only for what it accomplishes, but also for what it fails to accomplish. If our resources are so much greater than our achievements, how will we explain to future generations why we did so little when so much was within our reach? A neglectful civilization is condemned to wither like a body without a soul. The exhortations from the great New Deal leader Franklin Delano Roosevelt still resonate with inescapable pertinence. What is needed today is “bold, persistent experimentation”. “The only thing we need to fear is fear itself.” Such boldness stems not from instinct, but rather from political courage; not from irresponsible wilfulness, but rather from a daring ability to reform. What sets civilization apart from barbarism is a political architecture that promotes peaceful change and advances social and economic life by means of democratic consensus. If we fail against hunger and poverty, what else will be able to bring us together? I believe the time has come to state clearly that for us to once again grow in a fair way, an important shift in the financial flows from international multilateral organizations is necessary. Such organizations were created to provide solutions, but, by adopting excessive rigour, they themselves have sometimes become part of the problem. They must adjust their focus on development, thus restoring their original objectives. The International Monetary Fund should be able to provide the guarantees and the liquidity that are necessary for productive investments — especially in infrastructure, housing and sanitation — and which can also restore poor countries’ capacity to pay. Brazilian foreign policy, in all its dimensions, is focused on joining other nations in efforts aimed at the establishment of a world of justice and peace. Yesterday, in a historic meeting, more than 60 world leaders gathered to give new impetus to international action against hunger and poverty. I firmly believe that the process launched yesterday will bring the fight against world poverty to a new level. As we advance in this new alliance, we shall have better means to attain the Millennium Development Goals, especially with regard to the eradication of hunger. It was in this same spirit of contributing to the reduction of poverty that Brazil, India and South Africa established, last year, the India-Brazil-South Africa (IBSA) Fund. Our first project, in Guinea-Bissau, will be launched tomorrow. HIV/AIDS and its nefarious connection to hunger and poverty is also a priority. Our international cooperation programme with other developing countries in fighting HIV/AIDS is now operating in six developing countries and will soon be extended to another three. I am fully aware of the serious security problems that pose a threat to international stability. There seems to be no prospect for improvement in the critical situation in the Middle East. In that and other conflicts, the international community cannot allow violence — whether sponsored by States or by other actors — to prevail over democratic dialogue. The Palestinian people are still far from achieving the self- determination to which they are entitled. We know that the underlying causes of insecurity are complex. The necessary fight against terrorism cannot be conceived strictly in military terms. We must develop strategies that encompass both solidarity and firmness, but with strict respect for international law. On that basis, Brazil and other Latin American countries have responded to the call of the United Nations and are engaged in the stabilization efforts in Haiti. If we seek new paradigms in international relations, we cannot shirk our responsibility to address the concrete situations that emerge. The promotion of equitable development is crucial to addressing the centuries-old causes of Haitian instability. In our region, despite grave social and economic problems, a culture of peace prevails. Our continent is experiencing a period of democratic coming of age, with a vibrant civil society. We have learned that development and social justice must be sought with determination and an openness to dialogue. The bouts of instability in our region have been dealt with while strictly respecting our institutions. Whenever requested, and within its means and capabilities, Brazil has made its contribution to help friendly countries overcome crises that threatened their constitutional order and stability. We do not believe in interfering in the domestic affairs of other countries, but neither can we condone omission and indifference in the face of situations that affect our neighbours. Brazil is committed to the establishment of a South America that is politically stable, prosperous and united, on the basis of strengthening the South 7 American Common Market (MERCOSUR) and its strategic relationship with Argentina. The possibility that a community of South American States could emerge is no longer a distant dream, thanks to decisive initiatives in the areas of structural, economic, commercial, social and cultural integration. Brazil is at work in multilateral negotiations with a view to reaching just and equitable agreements. At the last meeting of the World Trade Organization, we took a fundamental step towards the elimination of abusive restrictions that hamper developing countries. Coordination among countries from Africa, Asia and Latin America in the Group of 20 was decisive for keeping the Doha Round on the right track of trade liberalization with social justice. If successful, the Doha Round could lift more than 500 million people out of poverty. It is essential to carry on building a new world economic and commercial geography that, while maintaining the vital ties to developed countries, allows for the establishment of solid bridges among the countries of the South, which have remained isolated from one another for too long. Brazil is committed to the success of the international climate change regime. We are developing renewable sources of energy. That is why we shall continue to actively strive for the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol. South America contains approximately 50 per cent of the world’s biodiversity. We stand for combating bio-piracy as well as for the negotiation of an international regime for sharing the benefits derived from the use of genetic resources and traditional knowledge. I reiterate what I stated at this very rostrum last year: only an international order based on multilateralism can promote peace and the sustainable development of nations. Such an order must be based on a constructive dialogue among different cultures and world visions. No organ is better suited than the United Nations to ensure the world’s convergence around common goals. The Security Council is the only source of legitimate action in the field of international peace and security, but its composition must reflect today’s reality — not perpetuate the post- World-War-II era or the Cold War era. Reform proposals that simply dress the current structure in new clothes and do not provide for an increase in the number of permanent members are manifestly insufficient. The difficulties inherent to any reform process must not cause us to lose sight of its urgency. There will be neither security nor stability in the world until a more just and democratic order is established. The community of nations must give a clear and urgent response to this challenge. We can find such a response in the wise words of the Prophet Isaiah: the fruit of righteousness will be peace.It is with great pleasure that I congratulate you, Sir, on your unanimous election to preside over the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly, an election that offers Africa its tenth presidency. The Gabonese Republic thus has received from the international community the recognition it deserves and the French-speaking countries are delighted to see one of our own guiding our debates. Be assured that the delegation of Monaco, which I am leading, will fully support you in your noble mission in the service of peace and development. I would also like to hail the Secretary-General for his courage and his unwavering commitment to peace. A long time ago, the Organization began a process of thinking through the reforms that are required to improve its functioning. In that connection, I would like to congratulate the outgoing President of the Assembly, Mr. Julian Hunte, on his work during the fifty-eighth session; his perseverance made possible the adoption of new measures to revitalize the work of the General Assembly. While welcoming that progress, we know that we must continue along that path. Dedication to democracy and to the rule of law, unswerving confidence in the virtues of multilateralism and respect for our differences allow us to move forward in a spirit of harmony and to continue to adapt the Organization to meet the challenges of our time. It is vital that the Organization be provided with the means to better respond to the expectations of the peoples of the world. This is why the Principality supports initiatives aimed at improving the Organizationís methods of work and, in particular, those regarding Security Council reform. Enlargement of the Council, in both permanent and non-permanent seats, will strengthen its capacity to contribute to the essential objectives of the maintenance of peace by providing more equitable representation of the diverse regions that compose the international community. The fifteenth International AIDS Conference, held in Thailand last July, once again highlighted the devastation caused by this terrible pandemic as well as its disastrous social consequences. However, the Conference also demonstrated that when international organizations, Governments and civil society agree to work together, we can fight this scourge more effectively. In that struggle, the role of women is crucial. In my country, Her Serene Highness Princess Stephanie, my sister, created and chairs the Fight AIDS Monaco association that gives moral and material support to AIDS patients and their families while promoting information and prevention programmes. For my part, I have expressed the wish that all of the Principality's school children participate in marking a 23 world day for children orphaned by AIDS, to show their solidarity with these vulnerable children whose number could reach 100 million by the year 2010. Once again this year, my country has been contributing to the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which was created following the twenty-sixth special session of the General Assembly, the first to be devoted to a disease. We have been providing regular support for the activities of the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) since its creation, and I am pleased to announce that the Principality has decided to strengthen its financial cooperation with the Programme. We hope that the creation within UNAIDS of the Programme Acceleration Fund will allow us to meet specific needs defined by the recipient States themselves. In effect, we are convinced of the necessity for States to strengthen, on the one hand, their capacities in terms of basic social services and adequate sanitation facilities and on the other hand, to pursue public awareness and information campaigns. Upon the initiative of His Serene Highness the Sovereign Prince, my father, the Principality of Monaco has always expressed its solidarity to the most underdeveloped populations. We share the concerns of world leaders regarding the adverse impact that the persistence of extreme poverty is having on international security. We shall therefore consider most carefully the elaboration of a new global partnership designed to eliminate hunger and poverty and to advance economic development and social justice, as a continuation to the commitments undertaken at the Millennium Summit and during the Monterrey Conference. Terrorism, unfortunately, has become a daily reality, as is attested to by, among others, the tragedy that took place in Beslan, which is repugnant to all of us. Our determination to fight it must remain unshaken and that is why we welcome the establishment of an executive directorate of the Counter-Terrorism Committee. In that domain, international cooperation is an essential element for effective action. No State, regardless of its size, can be a weak link that might endanger the efforts we are conducting together. Therefore, the Principality intends to play its role in the battle which our Organization is waging against terrorism. Thus, Monaco has become a party to all of the twelve conventions designed to eradicate international terrorism and has adopted, as domestic legislation, appropriate measures for their implementation. But the battle against terrorism also requires that we act irreproachably in terms of our respect for human rights. Accordingly, the Principality is making every effort to guarantee them on its territory; hence Monacoís forthcoming accession to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. The number of refugees and displaced persons who are displaced within their own countries continues to increase, and our response to the unbearable suffering of those human beings cannot be limited to our moral indignation. As in any urgent and complex emergency situation, civilians and the most vulnerable among them are the targets of harm and the worst types of abuse. The humanitarian disaster which continues to take place under our very eyes in Darfur has shown, once again, how limited we are in our capacity to enforce respect for human rights and for international humanitarian law. In response to the appeal launched by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) during the special session of the General Assembly on children in 2002, the authorities of Monaco decided to earmark their traditional contribution to UNHCR towards primary education for refugee children. We hope to provide those children, whose world has been brutally shattered overnight, a substitute for their traditional educational environment, by allowing them to escape, albeit a little, those terrible conditions of daily life dominated by promiscuity and the anguish of having forever lost their homes. Championing the interests of the child has always been one of our major concerns. To build a world fit for children, in keeping with the commitments undertaken during the May 2002 special session on children, the World Association of Childrenís Friends, presided over by my sister, Her Royal Highness the Princess of Hanover, organized in the Principality in April 2003, a round table on that subject. Unfortunately, the need is becoming clearer each day, to strengthen the area of international law designed to guarantee the rights of children and to assure that those laws are more effectively applied. Thus, do not those particularly heinous crimes require an exceptionally strong response? Do we not need to ensure that the most serious violations of the 24 rights of children do not fall under a statute of limitations and do we not need to extend the powers of the national jurisdictions by providing them with universal competence in that area? The Principality of Monaco urges you to give thought to this, in other words, to plan for the adoption of a legal instrument which will make it possible here, to react against the impunity which continues to prevail, concerning the enrolment of child soldiers, the sexual exploitation of children and the despicable trade of which they are victims - to mention only the most revolting of those crimes. The debate held last June in the Security Council served to reaffirm the timely nature of such considerations. By abolishing the statute of limitations for those horrendous crimes, we would be strengthening their prevention, as well as fulfilling our duty to honour the memory of the victims. By expanding the competences of our national jurisdictions so that borders no longer serve to limit our actions, we will be better able to cope with the development of the transnational organized crime network which defies our States and the legal order they are trying to establish. I am fully aware that this essentially moral struggle - to ensure respect for the rights of the child - gives rise, given the present state of international law, to numerous legal difficulties. But is it not our duty to act when that legislation is no longer adapted to meet the challenges of our time, at a time when the international community is clearly closing its unified ranks, to put an end to those practices which are abhorrent to all of us? Let us be courageous and foresighted in championing the most noble cause that exists - the defence of innocents. Let us respond to the appeal of Albert Einstein made so long ago that - there will be no progress in this world as long as there are unhappy children.I stand before the General Assembly of the United Nations with an equal measure of pride and humility. Of the more than 190 nations that make up the United Nations, Antigua and Barbuda is among the smallest in population and land mass. In the face of these strikingly modest statistics, my humility in standing at this renowned and universally respected podium will be readily understood. The fact that 21 Antigua and Barbuda is accorded the privilege to address the United Nations today is obvious cause for pride. On a personal note, I have just completed my first six months as Prime Minister in the first term of the party that was elected to govern Antigua and Barbuda on 23 March of this year. It is, therefore, a particular pleasure and a special personal privilege for me to be afforded this opportunity to take the podium at the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the Secretary-General for the kind sentiments he graciously extended on the formation of my Government. Considering that a single party had ruled Antigua and Barbuda throughout the life of our 23-year old nation, and for some considerable time prior to that, my leadership and my Government are still in a tender state of infancy. I therefore trust that, should I be guilty of any lapse in protocol during my remarks, you will blame it on my innocence. The removal of a long-entrenched Government makes 2004 a year of dramatic change and intimidating challenge for Antigua and Barbuda. The United Nations human development index ranks Antigua and Barbuda in the high development scale. By virtue of our per-capita income, Antigua and Barbuda is designated a middle-income country. Though it is self-evident that all countries are not created equal, it is a fundamental purpose of the United Nations to ensure a level playing field in the arena in which small as well as large nations of the world engage one another. I say this despite overwhelming empirical evidence that size and might often come into play without subtlety, without apology and sometimes without sufficiently vigorous challenge in the affairs of the United Nations. The structure of the Security Council dramatizes the reality that one nation, one vote, still has its limitations. In this context, we might be tempted to accept, as Nobel Laureate V. S. Naipul asserts in the opening line of his book, A Bend in the River: “The world is what it is”. I submit that the overarching mission of the United Nations is to defy the status quo and to work unrelentingly to transform the world from what it is into what it can be. The logical and particularly relevant concomitance to all of this is that a fundamental function of the United Nations is to assist small Member States like Antigua and Barbuda to be all that we can be. We recognize that the United Nations has been making every conceivable effort to meet this mandate, most notably so under the stewardship of our indomitable Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan. Not surprisingly, small societies like those of the English-speaking Caribbean have become casualties, not beneficiaries, of globalization and of the new world economic order. The United Nations acknowledged this in the Millennium Declaration. The Declaration concedes that, while globalization offers great opportunities, its benefits are very unevenly shared, while its costs are unevenly distributed. It recognized that developing countries and countries with economies in transition face special difficulties in responding to the challenges of globalization. The Millennium Declaration defined the need for policies and measures at the global level that correspond to the needs of developing countries and economies in transition and that are formulated and implemented with their effective participation. It recognized a collective responsibility to uphold the principles of human dignity, equality and equity at the global level. It affirmed a determination to deal comprehensively and effectively with the debt problems of low and middle-income developing countries through various national and international measures designed to make their debt sustainable in the long term. Still, the reality confronts us that the views of all other United Nations Member States are outweighed by those of the five permanent members of the Security Council. Moreover, the world saw, not all that long ago, effective marginalization of the United Nations in defiance of rational concerns, strongly expressed, of the general membership of the United Nations. I have no desire to be trampled underfoot by the elephants engaged in the historic battle that raged in this forum before it moved to its still active theatre in the Middle East earlier this year. I am, however, compelled to wonder by what process the United Nations appears to have ruled out a negotiated resolution of the ongoing war in Iraq as an option. It is lamentable that, in meeting the unique needs of vulnerable small States and microeconomies, the United Nations is routinely sidelined in international trading relationships and development processes. The United Nations is not recognized as a key catalyst in defining the world economic order and international 22 trading arrangements in the twenty-first century. That agenda is understood to be directed by entities such as the World Trade Organization, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Financial Action Task Force, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Two of those organizations are assemblies of a small number of wealthy nations that do not necessarily attach adequate priority to the vulnerability of small States and economies in transition. We are not all convinced that those organizations, whose decisions can well determine the destiny of small States like Antigua and Barbuda — and the now desolate Grenada and Haiti — are sufficiently responsive to the special needs of small Caribbean States. Indeed, the instances in which small countries of the Caribbean have been targets of the OECD and the mighty United States are vivid in our consciousness. Super Power intervention in traditional arrangements between Europe and the Caribbean for bananas and sugar has been no less devastating, and it has certainly been farther reaching than Hurricane Ivan’s savage demolition of Grenada. The OECD offensive against what were termed “harmful tax jurisdictions”, manifestly discriminated against international financial centres in the Caribbean. Our responses to this challenge were responsible and effective. We would like to think that the English-speaking Caribbean countries are model nations in the family of man. We represent a zone of peace in a world shattered by internecine and international wars. We maintain exemplary parliamentary democracies. With a few sad exceptions, we in the Caribbean change our Governments by the ballot, and by no other means. Though we are small, we are overwhelming in human worth. The Commonwealth Caribbean gave Bob Marley to the world. We gave Nobel Laureates Arthur Lewis, Derek Walcott and Vidia Naipaul to the world. We have given our music to the world in the form of reggae, calypso, soca and steel band. We have enriched the cuisines of the world. We have given the fastest female track athletes to the world. We have contributed to the standard of academia around the world through the export of many of our finest minds. We have been blessed with the most desirable beaches in the world, and we welcome the world to share our beaches and our incomparable natural environment. Our islands represent green points of light on a globe convulsed by callous attitudes to the environment among certain developed countries, and among countries in transition, as well. Small though our nations may be, we are mighty warriors in strong and effective alliances with the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other nations in the war against the international narcotics syndicates. I deem it my country’s civic responsibility to remind this body of our duty to fulfil our role as outlined in the preamble of the United Nations Charter, to be the central area for harmonizing the actions of nations in achieving international cooperation in solving issues of a humanitarian nature. Today two nations within the Caribbean region, Grenada and Haiti, have been devastated by natural disaster. Some 90 per cent of Grenada’s housing stock has been destroyed. Civil society is in deep trauma. The economy has been wiped out and the Government is completely immobilized. This means that there is an ineffective authority. More than 1,000 persons have just died in Haiti in the wake of Hurricane Jean, with the figure expected to double in days. The dead are being buried in mass graves to prevent a health epidemic. Homes and crops have been destroyed, with floodwater lines on buildings measuring up to 10 feet high. Survivors in Haiti’s third largest city, Gonaives, are hungry, thirsty and increasingly desperate. United Nations peacekeepers and aid agencies are stretched to the limit. Grenada and Haiti are now suffering a condition comparable to a massive military bombardment. Against this backdrop, I urge the United Nations — every nation, large and small — to intervene in those two Caribbean countries devastated by recent hurricanes. They are certifiable disaster areas. An adequate response from all of us, and even more so from the developed countries, to the plight of Grenada and Haiti would be a quantum leap to recovery and reconstruction for them and the best option to ease the suffering of their battered and distressed people. We must act quickly. We must act now. If I may be so bold, I would like to say that my country, Antigua and Barbuda, is a veritable United Nations in microcosm. It has become home to a relatively larger proportion of immigrants from Caribbean countries than has any other Caribbean 23 State. On any day, on any street in St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda’s capital, you will hear virtually every Caribbean inflection, English and Hispanic. You will also hear accents from China, Syria, Lebanon, Europe and Africa. Indeed, we are celebrating Antigua and Barbuda’s unique diversity with the construction of a Caribbean Festival Park that will be a permanent showcase and celebration of the essence of the entire Caribbean region. I have chosen to use this opportunity to urge the United Nations General Assembly to petition powerful nations and agencies of the world for a review of the policy of penalizing small States that achieve a measure of success in the process of guiding their economies to growth and their citizens to better lives. Is it not ironic that, only in the area of development funding, achieving “graduation” is rewarded with punishment? Development funding dries up; technical aid is more difficult to access when small States begin to show signs of prosperity. The effect of this is really to pull out the carpet from under small States the moment they stand up. Small developing States will never be insulated against external shocks. The international security measures mandated by America’s post-9/11 Patriot Act have inflicted an inordinate financial burden on the small economies of Caribbean member States. We have been compelled to finance security infrastructure for which we had no provisions. With intensified security concerns in the United States, Caribbean countries are confronted with increasing waves of deported felons from the United States. This carries the risk that, among these deportees, there might well be prime recruits for organized crime and narco-trafficking. Caribbean societies are simply not equipped to respond effectively to those challenges. Among member countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, Antigua and Barbuda is considered to be relatively affluent. The grim reality is that Antigua and Barbuda is confronted with an economy that has been experiencing sustained decline. The country has been accumulating crippling debt. We are uncovering disturbing levels of unemployment, particularly among our young people. This can well place a significant proportion of our youth at serious risk. Many of these concerns are common to small States of the Caribbean. Policies and rules are made in organizations controlled by the powerful few. This brings us to the contradiction that, as small States strive to be all that we can be, we are penalized for our success. Policy makers in the developed world, donor countries and multilateral donor agencies should not take our natural and physical attributes as barometers of our economic and social development. In this age of globalization, where the emphasis is on bigness, being small is definitely a disadvantage of major magnitude. Small economies cannot easily diversify production. Jobs are concentrated in a limited number of industries — namely, agriculture, tourism and services. Tragically, we are now encountering a situation where our unemployed young people are easily induced into the drug trade. Given that the Caribbean region is a recognized drug trans-shipment point between Latin America and the United States and Europe, the attraction of easy money and effective marketing to youth by drug dons make this job opportunity very attractive to the youth of the Caribbean region. My party, the United Progressive Party, campaigned on a platform of transparency, accountability and integrity in every functional aspect of government, and throughout the society as a whole. As a demonstration of my Government’s seriousness in combating corruption, I tabled anticorruption and integrity legislation in our Parliament during our first six months in Government. My Government and the majority of the people of Antigua and Barbuda are committed to every option that will support our dedication to good governance in our country. I challenge the United Nations to stand by the tenets of the Millennium Declaration, which call for equity among nations, large and small. There is a compelling reason for this call. Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries are currently engaged in three separate sets of negotiations that will seriously impact the economies of our countries and the welfare of our people. To date, there have been no concessions afforded to the special needs of small States in our negotiations with the European Union, on the Free Trade Area of the Americas and with the World Trade Organization. Not everyone engaged in these negotiations appears to be in sympathy with the fundamental goals of the United Nations Millennium Declaration. 24 If affirmative action is not to be proffered to Antigua and Barbuda and other small States of the Caribbean region and the world, let us at least be spared punitive suspension of whatever special facilities enabled us to move our economies forward. Antigua and Barbuda thanks this General Assembly for the opportunity to propose that, in keeping with the letter and the spirit of the United Nations Millennium Declaration, small States, such as those of CARICOM, should be afforded the promised opportunity to be beneficiaries of globalization and the new world economic architecture, instead of leaving us casualties, as we must now be accurately described.My first words are to congratulate you, Sir, on your election and to tell you how gratified the delegation I have the honour to lead is, seeing you preside over the work of our august Assembly. Your great human qualities and great experience in international relations, to which you have devoted a great part of your life, convince us that our debates will be successful. You can rely on the support and full cooperation of my delegation in carrying out your noble mission. On this occasion, I would also like to express the gratitude of my delegation to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his dynamic leadership during the past session. I would also like to convey to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, the expression of great appreciation as well as the sincere words of encouragement of His Excellency, General Lansana Conté, President of the Republic, for the Secretary- General’s untiring efforts in defending and promoting the noble ideals of our Organization. Fifty-nine years ago our Organization emerged based upon universal values that are equally relevant today. While there has been some definite success in defending those values, the world is now facing the effects and consequences of upheavals that threaten the foundations of our institution. Three years after the tragic events of 11 September 2001, international terrorism continues to strike out blindly, in an odious manner. The increase in terrorism throughout the world is, for my country, a source of great concern. Through me, the Guinean Government reaffirms its resolute condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and wishes to express its sympathy and solidarity with the victims of that scourge. My delegation believes that the struggle against terrorism must continue with greater resolve, but we must also recognize that we can only win the battle if the international community energetically attacks the underlying causes of that scourge, including inequality, poverty and injustice. Given the highly tense international situation with its many hotbeds of tension throughout the world, progress over the last few months in the settlement of disputes is a source of satisfaction to us. In West Africa, after many painful years of instability, we are happy to note positive achievements, thanks to the political will and resolve of its leaders, civil society and the international community. In Liberia, there is hope since the transitional Government was established. The deployment of the United Nations mission and the progress achieved in terms of the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme, are all very encouraging. The considerable commitments taken in February at the international conference dedicated to the reconstruction of Liberia must be honoured, in order to preserve the peace that has been restored, and to ensure security throughout the subregion. In Sierra Leone, the peace-building process undertaken with the support of the international community has shown some commendable successes — the gradual drawdown in the United Nations mission troops is being carried out according to agreed criteria. Further resources will be necessary to strengthen the capacity of the security forces so they may take over from the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone, to reduce unemployment among the young, to reintegrate former combatants and to rebuild the country. In order to promote the momentum of the peace process, the Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Mano River — enlarged to include the neighbouring countries of Côte d’Ivoire and Mali — took place on 20 May 2004 in Conakry. The outcome 19 of the summit shows the political will of our States to strengthen their cooperation for the consolidation of peace and promotion of development in the subregion. I would like to reiterate the appeal that was addressed to the international community to concretely support the activities of the Mano River Union. I would also like to renew my country’s appeal for economic, humanitarian and financial assistance so that we can confront the negative impact of continuing to manage and care for hundreds of thousands of refugees and internally displaced persons while consolidating our development foundation. I can assure you that the Republic of Guinea will not fail in its historical duty to safeguard peace, and will continue to carry out its duties in terms of solidarity to populations in distress in the subregion, and we will do this on a basis of mutual confidence and respect for national sovereignty and our common obligations. In Guinea-Bissau, notable progress enables us to have hope. We are gratified at the resumption of cooperation with the Bretton Woods institutions which will make it easier to mobilize the required resources to build a strong peace. In Côte d’Ivoire, the preservation of unity, territorial integrity and the full sovereignty of the country must serve as the core of the peace process that is under way. We appeal to all parties to rely on dialogue in order to overcome the difficulties that lie ahead on the way to peace. Guinea is very preoccupied by the persistence of interdependent transborder problems that characterize socio-economic conflicts and crises. Among those problems are the proliferation of and illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons, the movements of mercenaries, the recruitment and the use of child soldiers and the pillaging of natural resources. The initiative for transforming the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) moratorium on export and import of small arms and light weapons into a regional convention is sound and deserves the firm support of the international community. The Republic of Guinea encourages the Open- Ended Working Group established to negotiate an international instrument on small arms and light weapons to speedily arrive at an agreement ready for immediate implementation. Like West Africa, the Great Lakes region is on the road to peace in spite of persistent instability in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is hoped that, beyond the instability of the transition period, the momentum that exists will enable that country to restore lasting peace and devote its energies to national reconstruction. My delegation welcomes the deployment of the United Nations Operation in Burundi. We urge the international community to make greater efforts to conclude the peace process, thus ensuring genuine reconciliation among all citizens of Burundi. Guinea is satisfied to note the progress made on the question of the Sudan and urges support for the African Union’s efforts for a comprehensive peace agreement. Nevertheless, we are concerned at the humanitarian and security situation in Darfur. We invite the brotherly Sudanese Government and the parties concerned to spare no effort to reach a settlement to the crisis. Turning to the Horn of Africa, my country welcomes the encouraging results of the national reconciliation in Somalia. We also hope that Ethiopia and Eritrea will manage to settle their dispute and restore peace. The Republic of Guinea is convinced that there is no alternative to a political settlement of the question of Western Sahara. My country therefore encourages the parties to strengthen their cooperation with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in order to find a just, lasting and mutually acceptable settlement. The Middle East continues to be the scene of grave events arising from the logic of violence that diminish day by day the chances of a peaceful settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian crisis. Guinea is greatly concerned at the Israeli Government’s stubborn determination to continue its construction of the wall of separation in spite of the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice. My country is convinced that peace in the Middle East greatly depends on obliging all parties to respect their commitments as set out in the Quartet’s road map and the relevant Security Council resolutions. I reaffirm the Guinean people’s feelings of solidarity and friendship for the brotherly 20 Palestinian people and their historic leader, President Yasser Arafat. My Government remains concerned at the situation prevailing in Iraq. It hopes that the establishment of a secure environment will enable the Iraqi people to consolidate their sovereignty and dedicate themselves to the reconstruction of their country. With respect to the Korean Peninsula, my delegation urges the parties to continue efforts aimed at the peaceful and independent reunification of the two Koreas. I also reaffirm the deep commitment of the Government and the people of Guinea to the one-China policy. Four years ago, the adoption of the Millennium Declaration raised hopes for a better life for one billion human beings. To that end, my country urges the United Nations and the other development partners to commit themselves fully to contributing to the elimination of poverty by implementing the measures for attaining the Goals. Of course, achieving those Goals essentially depends on the creation of a global partnership for development, in particular in the least developed countries and the vulnerable segments of society. While it is true that globalization has created enormous wealth and prosperity in certain regions of the world, it must also be noted that the majority of the inhabitants of the world, in particular in the least developed countries, have not reaped the benefits. We believe that a world that provides no opportunities for development cannot be a world of peace, or even a world at peace. The Monterrey International Conference on Financing for Development and the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development, as well as the recent eleventh session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in São Paolo, Brazil, and the International AIDS Conference in Bangkok, Thailand, provided opportunities to make the needed commitments. The plans of action adopted at those conferences should be implemented by all development actors and at all levels. We believe that the 2005 review of implementation of the Millennium Development Goals will enable us to make necessary adjustments and add the needed momentum. In that context, my delegation holds that only by increasing official development assistance, supported by debt relief and better access to markets within the framework of a more fair globalization, can we overcome the obstacles to sustainable development. With respect to trade, at the present session Member States should reaffirm their political will to move beyond the failed World Trade Organization Conference at Cancún and conclude negotiations concerning the Doha Development Agenda. The recent agreement reached by the General Council of the World Trade Organization at Geneva is a beneficial step in the right direction. Conscious of the importance of all that is at stake, the African leaders are more committed than ever to tackling the major challenges facing the continent. The efforts made to achieve the objectives of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) reflect that awareness. In that context, we appeal again to the international community for enhanced support for NEPAD, which steadfastly places Africa on the road to better taking charge of its own affairs. Given the many challenges, the Member States of our Organization have the critical responsibility of taking action together and individually. Our collective response, commensurate with all these challenges, should be comprehensive, integrated and multilateral. The reform of the United Nations is now more necessary than ever. I would even say it is indispensable. The restructuring of United Nations bodies, in particular the revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform of the Security Council, will undoubtedly enhance the efficiency of our collective Organization. My delegation calls for a reformed United Nations that is adapted to the new realities of the world, a United Nations of increased solidarity and tireless efficiency, better able to strengthen peace and stability in the world, for the happiness of our peoples.I wish to greet you all and express my great pleasure at having this opportunity to address this Assembly. I also wish to thank the United Nations, once again, for everything it has done and is doing for my country. Specifically, I would like to stress the importance of giving support to the returnees who were expelled from their homes. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a multi-ethnic country in which Bosnian Muslims, Orthodox Serbs, Catholic Croats, Jews and many other ethnicities lived in peace and tolerance for hundreds of years. In Sarajevo and in most other Bosnian towns, one can find mosques, Orthodox and Catholic churches and Jewish temples that have stood side by side for hundreds of years. For this reason, Sarajevo is called the Jerusalem of Europe. Preserving the multi-ethnic structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with all its characteristics and diversities, presents an historic challenge, not only to Europe, but to the whole world. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the foremost meeting point of world cultures and religions. It therefore refutes the theory of the clash of civilizations. I would like to update you on the situation in my country, which has made significant progress over the last nine years. The infrastructure destroyed in the war has been rebuilt and macroeconomic stability has been achieved, with only 1 per cent inflation. The banking system has been consolidated and foreign debts are being paid off. Since the post-war period, the gross domestic product has increased three times over and national reserves have increased 14 times over. Foreign currency reserves and savings are constantly increasing as well. We are on the right path to meeting all the requirements for starting negotiations with the European Union (EU) on stabilization and association agreements. Due to the Republika Srpska entityís failure to cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), we have been unable to gain Partnership for Peace membership, although we meet all of the requirements. Strong reforms are under way in the areas of education, customs, taxes, security and the defence 2 system. Many new central institutions have been set up, such as the Defence and Security Ministry, the intelligence service, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Joint Military Command and others. Compared with the approximately 500,000 soldiers of the three separate armies in 1995, the Bosnia and Herzegovina military forces now have 12,000 soldiers. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) had some 70,000 soldiers in Bosnia in 1996, and the Stabilization Force (SFOR) now has about 7,000. The security situation is stable; the peace has never been broken. Since the Dayton Peace Accords were signed, not a single foreign soldier has been killed in Bosnia. Instead of being a consumer of international aid, Bosnia and Herzegovina is increasingly becoming a participant in international peace missions, such as those in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia, Liberia, Timor-Leste, Haiti and others. The common foreign, security and defence policies of the European Union have enabled the EU to take the leading role in Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the end of this year, EU military forces will take over from SFOR in Bosnia. The positive stabilization process - as well as the overall progress made not only in Bosnia, but also in the other countries created after the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia - is being slowed down by an inappropriate attitude towards war crimes and war criminals. Some public and political officials are trying to find an excuse for the war crimes, saying they were committed in the interest of vital ethnic protection. Yet war criminals are treated as national heroes. This must be changed. Only on the basis of truth and justice can we build confidence and reconciliation among the people and friendly relations among our respective countries. The International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia has an irreplaceable role to play in that process. We deeply appreciate the work it has done so far. In our view, it must finish the trials that have already begun, particularly those of the highest-level officials. Some of the cases not yet completed can be transferred only to courts of countries where the crimes happened. This can be done only when those countries are prepared to guarantee fair and correct trials. Full cooperation with the ICTY must be an unavoidable requirement for accession to Euro-Atlantic institutions. Moreover, it is not enough to arrest and prosecute only war criminals on the ICTY's list. Local courts in our respective countries must prosecute thousands of other war criminals who are still at large, who constitute a destabilizing factor, who hinder positive processes, and who are often connected with organized crime. In my country, we are going to establish within the Bosnia and Herzegovina Court a war crimes chamber. The chamber will take over some of the Hague Tribunalís cases, but it will also prosecute many other criminals. It is going to be The Hague in miniature. We will therefore need technical and financial support, and we will have to involve international judges and prosecutors with experience in such trials, above all those who have worked at The Hague Tribunal. Next year will be the tenth anniversary of the genocide against Bosnian Muslims in the United Nations safe havens of Srebrenica and Zepa. The people most responsible for that genocide, as well as for all other war crimes committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic - have not yet been arrested. Those two men are responsible for the death of about 200,000 people. From this rostrum, I call on all in authority to arrest them. The outstanding issue of about 15,000 missing persons, whose bodies are spread among numerous mass graves throughout the country, 320 of which have been found so far in Bosnia, presents a big problem for my country. We need help in finding the missing and identifying them. The political system set up by the Dayton and Washington Agreements played a positive role in establishing peace, reconstruction and progress in my country. However, they are now increasingly becoming an obstacle to further development and progress. The current administration in Bosnia, with a federation composed of 10 cantons, a republic and a district - strong entities and a weak State - is an obstacle in our way towards Euro-Atlantic integration. It is an extremely complicated and expensive system that is barely operational. The people, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and outside, are aware of this to varying degrees. I believe the time is coming for domestic political representatives to start to discuss the revision of Bosnia's constitution and its compliance with 3 international conventions. We have to create an efficient State with institutions and mandates that will enable us to become a full member of the EU and NATO. I hope we will get support and help from friendly countries and the international community as a whole. A good opportunity for this will be next year, the tenth anniversary of the signing of the Dayton Peace Accords. It is time for Bosnia to turn from the Dayton phase to the Brussels phase. Bosnia and Herzegovina is sincerely and firmly committed to strengthening friendly relations with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia and the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro on the basis of mutual respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity and equality. Our geographical location, history, ethnic composition and economic and infrastructure connections are leading us towards overall cooperation. We are aware that, without a resolution of disputed issues, we cannot proceed further to European integration; we already have achieved some progress in this regard. The countries of South-Eastern Europe have made huge individual and joint efforts to achieve great progress in changing the stereotype of the region as a backward, problematic and conflict-ridden area of the European suburbs. Regional cooperation is being promoted in the areas of defence, security, border control, free markets, visa regimes, combating corruption and organized crime and the protection of ethnic and religious minorities. The issue of borders in the region cannot and must not be opened again. We have to arrange such matters in compliance with European standards. However, we have to open the issue of cooperation with respect to borders, since it is in our common interest. I think that the Iraqi crisis needs to be resolved simultaneously with the Palestinian issue. We therefore support the initiative of the Quartet and the road map as a basis for setting up a sincere dialogue between the two States, with United States mediation. We also strongly condemn all terrorist acts, as well as execution without trial of Palestinian religious leaders. We strongly condemn the Israeli side's construction of the protection wall. We are happy with the consensus among Security Council members on the transfer of sovereignty from coalition forces to the legitimately elected legal and executive authorities in Iraq. We think the United Nations should take the leading role in shaping the future of Iraq. The Iraqi people need to govern their own country, and the military forces that control the territory must respect the Geneva Conventions and humanitarian law. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of Iraq must be preserved, including sovereignty over its natural resources. We call for protection of Iraq's world heritage civilization and holy places, such as Karbala and the Imam Ali mosque in Najaf. With a view to helping the people of Iraq and contributing to the establishment of peace there, Bosnia and Herzegovina has sent a unit to Iraq to destroy mines and unexploded devices. My country is sincerely committed to combating international terrorism and is an active participant in the international anti-terrorist coalition. Terrorism is not only a threat to peace and security; in our view, it is immoral and counterproductive. It is immoral because innocent people are killed, and it is counterproductive because terrorism cannot resolve problems. It only produces new ones. In that regard, I would like to highlight here the example of Bosnian Muslims, since we were the major victim of the aggression against Bosnia between 1992 and 1995. We managed to defend ourselves, but both during and after the war we never turned our hands to revenge or terrorism. Allow me to review the issue of Security Council reform, as well as that of strengthening the efficiency of the mechanisms of the United Nations. The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina know from their own experience what a lack of proper and efficient United Nations action can mean. If United Nations mechanisms were more efficient, the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina would not have happened or, at least, the war would not have been so long. If they were more efficient, then genocide would not have been committed in the United Nations safe havens of Srebrenica and Zepa. For that reason, I want to remind everyone of the Organizationís obligation to assist the survivors in those areas. When considering the situation in the world today, the question of efficient cooperation in the area of security is inevitably raised. The Security Council needs to be the leading factor for peace and stability in the world. It has to have at its disposal mechanisms that can be operated with efficiency and speed in order to prevent conflicts from becoming military clashes. 4 Among other proposals, we support the initiatives to enlarge the Security Councilís membership. Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to become a non- permanent member of the Security Council. In terms of Security Council efficiency, our experience has been mostly a negative one. Through our participation in the work of the Council, we hope to prevent a repetition of our experience elsewhere in the world. Therefore, we take this opportunity to confirm our intention of putting forth our candidature for the 2010-2011 term. Bosnia and Herzegovina deserves that honour and we are determined to prove our worth.I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I assure you of Tanzania’s support as you discharge your mandate. I pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his able stewardship of the work of the General Assembly. I commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his staff for their dedicated service and tireless efforts during a very difficult time. The Millennium Development Goals represent our vision and hope for a new global partnership for shared global prosperity and security — an ideal at the very heart of the United Nations. But we are still far off the mark in meeting many of them, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. We must further strengthen our common resolve to act in their resolute pursuit. In this, as in other things, actions speak louder than words. We commend Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden for consistently meeting the long-established United Nations target of allocating at least 0.7 per cent of the national incomes of rich countries to development cooperation. Those countries have a broad national consensus on that matter, and their people are not in any way poorer because of it. We urge the other rich countries to produce timetables to meet that long-overdue target, to have coherent development policies and to earnestly and deliberately build and nurture a national consciousness and consensus on the global war on poverty. That war should now be a central political issue for all countries, rich and poor. Only then will the political will be generated to do more for the timely attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. It is true that money is not a panacea, but the eighth Millennium Development Goal — to develop a global partnership for development — may actually be the single most important key to unlocking new initiatives and latent capabilities to enable us to attain the Goals. And a genuine partnership implies shared rights and responsibilities as well as a shared 19 commitment to be evaluated. I commend the Governments of the Netherlands and Denmark for conducting, and making public, evaluations of their performance in meeting their commitments under the eighth Millennium Development Goal. On our part, never before have so many African Governments committed themselves to good democratic governance, to peer review, to ownership of the development agenda and to the participatory prioritization and sequencing of the tasks necessary for the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. We now need an equally unprecedented commitment — in deeds — to the global war on poverty in all rich countries. African countries doing their part in the global compact on poverty alleviation should not be constrained by a lack of supportive external resources. At the International Conference on Financing for Development, held at Monterrey, developed countries pledged to match stronger reform efforts in developing countries with increased support. Tanzania asks that they now show leadership by delivering on their promises. When both rich and poor countries meet their obligations, tangible progress is realized. My country is an example. Our Primary Education Development Programme, for instance, has recorded remarkable progress. We now expect to attain the education Millennium Development Goal in 2006, nine years ahead of schedule. Gender parity has been attained, and the net enrolment ratio is already 90.1 per cent. Pass rates have doubled over the past four years. That was made possible by an increased budgetary allocation to the sector, by debt relief, by increased aid channelled through our own budget and by local ownership and participation. We are grateful for the cooperation we have received from our development partners. Together, we have shown what can be done where there is political will. Yesterday, my colleagues and I launched the report of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization, entitled “A fair globalization: Creating opportunities for all”. The report is a contribution by commissioners with varied backgrounds and experiences; it is also a reflection of the views of many ordinary people consulted through national and regional dialogues. It presents one important consensus: globalization has produced both striking achievements and harmful distortions in global growth and development. We all agreed that, left unchecked, globalization will exacerbate the wealth gap within and between nations, thereby planting the seeds of social instability and crime on a national and global scale. But the report also presents the prospect of hope. Globalization, when properly governed, can be a force for good — a catalyst for change and for meeting the Millennium Development Goals. I commend the report to the Assembly. Responses to the challenges of globalization must begin at home. Good governance, prudent monetary and fiscal policies, macroeconomic stability, peace and security, the protection of property rights, setting priorities for poverty reduction and the creation of a conducive environment for investment and trade, both between Africans themselves and between Africa and the rest of the world — all those are things that we in Africa have agreed to address. But I must stress one conditionality: no solutions to Africa’s problems can be sustainable unless they are genuinely embraced and owned by Africans themselves. We have shown our new resolve to come to terms with our problems and to take the initiative and the lead in finding solutions. From our development partners, we ask in return for genuine respect for our ownership and the policy space for local initiative and leadership. We need policy space to deal with problems such as conflict, ethnicity, land and agrarian reform and institution-building, and we need adequate, consistent and predictable external support to implement the solutions we put forward. The Democratic Republic of the Congo deserves our continued and strong support. Instability in that country robs the entire region of its potential for shared progress, development and solidarity. The people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo must continue to walk down the path of peace, reconciliation and unity. They and the Government of President Kabila need and deserve our robust help. We commend President Mbeki and the South African Government for their efforts, and Tanzania pledges its unwavering support to them. In Burundi, we commend President Museveni of Uganda and the South African Vice-President, Mr. Jacob Zuma, for their dedication to helping Burundi realize a new political and social dispensation of inclusive governance, development and peace. The Regional Initiative for Peace in Burundi has made strenuous efforts to accommodate, through negotiations, all the parties in a Government of 20 national unity. Sadly, the Parti pour la libération du peuple hutu-Forces nationales de libération (Palipehutu-FNL) has refused to be part of that process. Its declaration of responsibility for the massacres against innocent and unarmed refugees at Gatumba was the proverbial last straw for us in the region, so we took a stand and declared the FNL a terrorist group. We appeal for the Assembly’s support in treating it as such. The first international conference on the Great Lakes region, which Tanzania will host in November 2004, will review aspects concerning peace and security, governance and democracy, economic development and regional integration, as well as humanitarian and social issues in the region. Ultimately, we hope to adopt a comprehensive security, stability and development pact for the Great Lakes region. I thank the Group of Friends of the Great Lakes region for supporting the preparatory process and appeal to the United Nations and the international community to render their support to that process. The humanitarian tragedy in Darfur is harrowing and demands urgent remedy. A humanitarian ceasefire agreement must be promulgated, presaging the evolution of a democratic and political culture. We commend and support the effort by His Excellency Olusegun Obasanjo, President of Nigeria and African Union Chair, and President Idriss Deby of Chad. We ask for the practical, urgent and increased support of the United Nations and the international community as a whole for the initiatives of the African Union in addressing this tragedy. The question of Western Sahara has dragged on for too long. We fully support the right to self- determination of the people of Western Sahara. It is the duty of this body to help them realize it. We support the United Nations peace plan and call on all sides to cooperate fully in its speedy implementation. When the Middle East road map was put forward in 2003, we supported it, believing that it addressed comprehensively the issue of the establishment of a viable Palestinian State living with the State of Israel, with recognized and secure borders between them. It is regrettable that the road map has been put aside. In our view, the road map remains the most reasonable, viable and sustainable way of resolving this long-standing conflict. We condemn the cycle of violence and killings and the use of excessive force. We urge that the implementation of the road map be brought back on track. We are living with the spectre of international terrorism: the most vicious and pernicious among international crimes. The people of Tanzania will never forget the terrorist attack directed at the American Embassy in Dar es Salaam in 1998, which killed or wounded innocent Tanzanians. There should never be any doubt about our unflinching resolve to cooperate with others in combating terrorism in all its forms. Tanzania is a faithful and active Member of the United Nations, and we reaffirm our readiness to work with our fellow Members in addressing global concerns in furtherance of the ideals of the Assembly and the Charter of the United Nations. It is, therefore, with deep humility and gratitude that the United Republic of Tanzania has secured the endorsement of the African Union to seek a non-permanent seat in the Security Council. Our candidature will be placed before the Assembly for election later during this session, and we appeal for the full support of our candidature. The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to ravage many of our countries. As public awareness grows and technology improves, so do our chances of protecting the most basic human right, the right to life. That right can be enjoyed by our people if current and future advances in science and technology are extended to the many poor who are infected with HIV/AIDS. Preventive care, access to affordable drugs and the health delivery infrastructure in developing countries all need to be widened and strengthened. On this front, too, we need help. Democratic governance is a universal norm, which has to be reflected also in the United Nations system. What is desirable for our individual countries must also be true for the United Nations. Recent developments in the reform agenda of the Organization must therefore be expedited. Our hope is that the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change will bring forth recommendations for a firm jump forward in the reconfiguration of the reform process. The Security Council must be representative of today’s wider membership of the United Nations and reflective of the current geopolitical and economic structure of the world. There are countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America that deserve permanent seats because of their major contribution to the sustainability 21 of the Organization and to global peace, security and development. The time to bring them in has come. Members of the United Nations must uphold steadfastly, in word and deed, the ideals of its Charter for peace with justice and for security with development for all. These common aspirations are the foundation of international law, of international order and of international cooperation. They also invest with credible legitimacy our collective pursuit of the happiness of humanity and the renewal of humanity’s environment. Working together, we can ascend to the heights to which we aspire. Only then shall we leave to coming generations a deserved legacy of a common future for all mankind.The protracted period of tension that the international community is currently experiencing underscores the need for greater cooperation and commitment. It is fortunate, therefore, that during the past year the General Assembly benefited from the capable guidance of President Julian Hunte. The wealth of experience of his successor, Mr. Jean Ping, together with his great diplomatic acumen and insight, lead us to feel confident that he is in the right place at the right time. We pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the exemplary manner in which he has promoted the United Nations and maintained and increased its relevance for the most critical issues of the day. The degree to which the United Nations is consulted on and participates in pivotal events and the resolution of crises throughout the world is a tribute to Mr. Annanís selfless dedication to the Organization. He is also to be commended for the closer working relationship that he has been able to foster with the private sector and civil society through the global compact, with the aim of offering help and expertise to needy communities and young people. As the Secretary-General stated in his most recent report on the work of the Organization, the United Nations ó indeed, the world ó has had a very difficult and challenging year. Many of us have been traumatized by terrorism, by the brutal acts of repression that are taking place in many parts of the world and by the tense situation and developments in Iraq. For the majority of the worldís people, however, the most immediate threats are those of hunger, poverty, lack of drinking water, environmental degradation and endemic or infectious diseases, including HIV/AIDS and malaria. Overall, the Secretary-General notes that we have departed considerably from the vision and spirit of the Millennium Declaration of 2000, which embodied the 14 aspirations of our time: a world united by common values, with the primary goal of providing better living conditions for humanity, in an environment of peace and security. Unfortunately, as the Secretary-General notes, events related to terrorism have shaken our sense of common purpose. The tragedy of 11 September 2001, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the ongoing bloodshed in the Middle East and other disturbing incidents throughout the world have profoundly divided the international community about how to ensure our collective security. While we have seen many examples of State terrorism, terrorism has become essentially stateless and nebulous in nature, and is able to spread without regard to borders or nationalities. Although there is no disputing the fact that terrorism must be confronted promptly and vigorously, the knee-jerk reaction of attempting to crush it militarily fails to address its many manifestations or get to its root causes. We must pay special heed to our prejudices and fears as we endeavour to resolve difficult political problems that may have been building for decades. We must also accept that terrorism is not a faith or an ideology. It may well be a tactic or a strategy of last resort on the part of those who view themselves, their faith, their beliefs or their physical environment as endangered. While we must act resolutely in confronting acts of terrorism, to do so precipitately, without examining the underlying causes, could prove destructive or even fatal. No one should excuse the brutal and heinous crimes that are being committed in so many places today, but we must acknowledge that the situation requires us to find a solution. The international community is threatened by the instability that this phenomenon entails. We must not underestimate the importance of realistic foreign and development policies directed at resolving tensions and reducing poverty. We must find a way to bring the world together to reconcile differences and eliminate reasons for misunderstanding. The words and thoughts of the late American President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, are relevant here. For him, security meant not only safety from attack by outside aggressors, but also economic, social and moral security. As he said, essential to such a peace is a decent standard of living for all individuals, for freedom from fear is eternally linked with freedom from want. We are all aware of the commitments we made at the Millennium Summit in 2000. The critical needs and ills confronting mankind were identified at that Summit, and we committed to resolving them in various ways and according to a specific timetable. The eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) represent a worldwide quest to eliminate poverty and hunger while improving health care, education and the environment. Sadly, an evaluation of progress towards reaching these goals by the target dates reveals that we are making erratic progress. A recent study in Geneva found that the world is scarcely making a third of the effort necessary to achieve these modest targets. In particular, the eighth goal, which calls for a global partnership of rich and poor countries for development, envisioned a substantial increase in official development assistance (ODA), a reduction or cancellation of debts, the removal of protectionist barriers for agricultural products and free access to the markets of the industrialized countries. Needless to say, progress on this goal has been limited. It is the only goal lacking a deadline or timetable and is hampered by the apparent reluctance of developed countries to keep their commitments. Of the 50 least developed countries (LDCs), 34 are in Africa. Although five or six African countries are close to transitioning, only one has successfully made a smooth transition. Attempts to mobilize domestic resources through the private sector will require more time and funds. Low levels of savings and investment rates testify to the huge decline in resources needed for development. Undoubtedly, there is an urgent need to continually increase development assistance to this group of countries. Africa's need for development assistance has created the impression that the continent is a major financial burden to the international community. In fact, while Africa is disproportionately aid-dependent, it does not receive a disproportionate amount of aid. Overall, as things stand, LDCs will not be able to reduce poverty, achieve universal primary education or reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS by 2015. A report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) describes LDCsí woeful deficits in savings dedicated to growth, public investment and essential services. The report also states that the conclusion is unequivocal and that on 15 the basis of domestic resources alone, LDCs cannot lift themselves out of poverty. Today, in a post-11-September world, a new rationale for aid is emerging. Aid is increasingly seen as a potent force in the war on terror by providing support to both front-line States and weak States in which terrorism could breed. Additionally, there is a mounting recognition of endemic poverty and of the inequalities that threaten national security interests. Despite this realization, however, development assistance programmes have become more selective, aimed at a small group of countries that are in some way qualified. Nevertheless, many countries fail to qualify for this aid. Concrete actions must be taken for the sake of the millions suffering in those countries. We ignore them at our own risk. Common sense tells us that conflict is endemic and hardly any region in the world has escaped its violence. However, the reality is that no new civil wars have broken out recently, and there has been a decline in the number of drawn-out conflicts within and between States. We notice that although the number of victims has risen sharply, the number of terrorist incidents has in fact declined. That said, fewer people are being killed by war than at almost anytime in the past century. Few wars are beginning and many old ones are ending. This is particularly true in Africa, where some seven millions souls perished in the conflicts of Angola, Congo, Sudan, Sierra Leone, Liberia and Somalia. With the exception of the Darfur region in the Sudan, each one of those conflicts appears to be either coming to an end, winding down or stabilizing. Of course, we are all deeply saddened by the scale of the tragedy in Darfur. This issue, however, needs to be tackled with the greatest care, clarity, fairness and seriousness. We must be cautious about making generalizations and forming prejudices too soon. We need to direct our efforts towards the right solutions. Conflicts, of course, require weapons, and reducing this threat requires a halt to arms shipments. These shipments divert vital resources from other critical needs. The countries of Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa spend some $22 billion on arms each year, that is, more than two thirds of arms sales worldwide. Solidifying peace in the world calls for more preventive diplomacy, peacemaking and additional peacekeeping missions. Unless fully supported by the international community through additional resources, further operations would strain United Nations planning, pre-positioned forces, logistics, procurement and command and control capabilities. What is required, therefore, is greater assistance for regional peacekeeping capabilities, particularly in Africa. Any action undertaken must necessarily have the approval of the United Nations. This is the only path that confers a degree of legitimacy on any undertaking. Action undertaken by the United Nations implies the approval of the Security Council. Here it must be noted that the Council continues to operate in accordance with the legacy of the Second World War in terms of its structure. Furthermore, the exponential growth in United Nations membership is not reflected in the Council. There is an urgent need for the developing world to have a stronger voice in the Council. The Council must have a more equitable and realistic distribution, in terms of both representation and composition. Security Council reform is long overdue and there is an urgent need to expand the reform in both the permanent and non-permanent categories, embracing developing and developed countries. We are pleased with the establishment by the Secretary-General of the High- Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. Some of its initial soundings cover the expansion of the Security Council, recalling membersí commitment to contribute to national and international peace and security. We deem auspicious the projected full review of the Councilís work at the end of every decade, including a review of the manpower and financial resources of peacekeeping missions. We await the Panelís report this December to the Secretary-General, and we will consider his comments during the next session of the Assembly. The President returned to the Chair. Following the Arta Peace Conference, which we initiated and the outlines of which I presented to this very Assembly several years ago, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) member States considered it necessary to complete this process by broadening its base. Since then, and to date, the Somali reconciliation conference in Nairobi, Kenya, under the auspices of IGAD, has achieved tangible progress, which we welcome. Particular recognition should be addressed to all IGAD member 16 States for their self-sacrifice and devotion, especially to our brothers from Kenya, whose good offices, patience and determination allowed the negotiations to continue even in the most critical moments. Indeed, the Somali representatives, spurred by the will of the region and the convergence of political and financial support of the international community, worked relentlessly to set up the first pillar of the Somali Government institutions ó that is, the Transitional Parliament. This first stage, welcomed by the Somali people within the country and in the diaspora, and the international community as a whole, finally brought a glimmer of hope that the reign of anarchy and chaos would soon come to an end in Somalia. The divergences of view that prevailed for a long time among the countries of the region on ways of resolving the Somali conflict have now yielded to common sense and collective resolve, to work in harmony and to collaborate in a sincere and fraternal spirit towards the ultimate goal of helping our Somali brothers achieve legitimate and lasting peace. The misunderstandings and difficulties encountered during the process have provided an opportunity for a fresh review of the statements of the various regional actors for a clear-eyed and in-depth analysis, imbued with the genuine desire to show the solidarity of IGAD countries towards Somalia, and has made it possible to underscore the common need to help the Somali people to establish a broad-based Government that is representative and legitimate. This Conference has culminated in a Somali Parliament, where all the factions and various components of Somali civil society are represented, such as intellectuals, professionals, women and others. Last week, the members of Parliament elected a Speaker, and today they are electing his deputies before proceeding on 10 October to elect the President of the Transitional Government. Without a doubt, and very importantly so, the facts bear out that we are today in a significantly different mood than the past, because this time the Somali people are more determined to deepen their dialogue and the reconciliation process. And as a region we are convinced that we must work together towards achieving the goals agreed upon. It is also the responsibility of the international community to act in a strong and decisive manner to assist Somalia. In the first place, the international community must provide the necessary financial and political support to rapidly enable the new Government to create the conditions for achieving the rehabilitation of facilities needed to house the new Government; the provision of direct budgetary support to pay wages and other administrative expenditures; and the tackling of security issues head-on, in particular, with the implementation of demobilization, disarmament and reintegration programmes (DDR). In this first six-month critical phase, the actions undertaken by the new Government will determine the authority of its legitimacy as it proceeds to consolidate the gains obtained from the reconciliation process, with the aim of addressing the formidable expectations of the Somali people. In the second place, at the political level, it is assumed that the new Transitional Parliament will be an all-inclusive body; it will agree to swear in members of this National Assembly; and all its members will accept the primacy of the rule of law, responsible norms of behaviour, disarmament and demobilization. Any contrary attitudes, actions or activities that could undermine the efforts to pacify the country or frustrate the effectiveness of the new Government should not be tolerated or accepted by the region or by the international community. In this respect, the Security Council, the unique body entrusted with the maintenance of international peace and security, may be called upon to take necessary measures in conformity with the United Nations Charter to apply the following measures in case the new State faces a resurgence of obstacles to the reconciliation process or restoration of the State. These would be the implementation of a list and a systematic regime of sanctions directed against those who would continue to undermine the Governmentís peace efforts. We are deeply convinced that this is a unique opportunity for the international community to finally resolve the long-lasting conflict in Somalia. We need to acknowledge the changes that have taken place. The Somalis are determined, and the region is united. We should, at all costs, avoid repetition of the scenario we have experienced in the past. Let us seize this opportunity. Let us, together, help our Somali brothers and sisters in their quest for peace, stability, and unity. 17 Until now, innumerable resolutions, commitments, initiatives and peace processes to resolve the long-festering Middle East conflict remain at best rhetorical. A clear-cut vision of the two-State solution - a secure Israel side by side with a viable Palestinian State - rings hollow in the wake of a large expansion of illegal Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories of the West Bank, with the building of thousands of houses on land confiscated from Palestinian families. All this sounds familiar. Over the last three-and-a-half decades, we have witnessed the blatant confiscation of Palestinian land, farmlands and water resources. The daily oppression and repression of Palestinian victims is beyond comprehension. Nevertheless, the Palestinians continue to struggle against all odds to maintain some semblance of civil order. Making an already untenable and explosive situation even worse, Israel, in defiance of international law and public opinion, has embarked on building a separation wall, which is penetrating and dividing Palestinian territory in two, well beyond Israelís 1967 borders, thus creating facts on the ground. And, as we all know by now, Israelís proposed tactical withdrawal from Gaza is not a prelude to Palestinian statehood. All these violent and deliberate actions have made a mockery of the road map, and thus, rendered it worthless; this is the same fate that met the Oslo Accords. Abandoned by the international community, the Palestinians are struck with indefinite deprivation, a sense of hopelessness and statelessness. That being the case, this Assembly has perhaps the sad duty to pronounce itself incapable of constraining Israel, a Member State of this Organization, rather than continuing to give false hope to a people that has already lost everything. Djibouti, strategically situated at a crossroad of the seas, and serving as a gateway to the growing African and Middle Eastern markets, has been fortunate in achieving a period of sustained growth, stability and improved governance. Many of our facilities are presently undergoing considerable improvements to respond to, and to take advantage of the growing demands. A new modern port is under construction, the first phase being an oil terminal expected to be operational by next year, followed by a major container terminal, and finally by an industrial free zone that will be the first of its kind in Africa, offering light manufacturing and value-added facilities and services in a duty-free setting, including warehousing, storage and distribution. In this respect, we wish to express deep gratitude to the inspiring and pragmatic leadership of Dubai, our key partner in this visionary venture, that will undoubtedly put Djibouti on the map of international trade and shipping. Djibouti seeks to improve its private sector development by reducing the cost of creating or doing business, by improving its labour force through investments in education, training, health, social protection and eliminating gender disparities. The Government is also working to strengthen institutional capacity and governance, while developing its absorptive capacity to better manage, as well as effectively utilize, donor support. The Horn of Africa has seen its share of conflict and natural disasters. Together with our friends in the region, we are resolutely engaged in mitigating the plight of our people, reducing tensions and conflict, developing cooperation in the areas of transport, communications, health and the environment. Regional and international security issues and, in particular, the fight against terrorism, are of primary concern to the countries in the Horn of Africa. Together with our international partners, we are doing all we can in the fight against that scourge. The same holds true for the HIV/AIDS pandemic, tuberculosis and malaria. Our region has no other alternative than to strengthen cooperation in all areas ó from economic development to improving confidence-building measures. Djibouti, friend to all, enemy of none, will spare no effort to further intensify the search for greater regional harmony and cooperation, while promoting a pluralistic, open, and healthy society at home.I have the distinct honour to congratulate you, Mr. President, a distinguished African diplomat, on your election to preside over the fifty-ninth session of this Assembly and to wish you success in your undertaking. I would also like to commend your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for the dedication and commitment that he brought to bear on his stewardship of the fifty-eighth session. Three years ago, a terrible tragedy hit this city. The unprecedented terrorist attacks of 11 September resulted in the death of thousands of innocent people of many nationalities, including some from my own country, Ghana. The whole world shared the pain and sorrow of New York in the aftermath of those atrocities. The whole world also rose in solidarity with the people of the United States to ensure that such tragedies would not happen again. 11 September reminds us of the importance of seeking a multilateral and peaceful means for the maintenance of international peace and security, especially now, when it has become evident that only collective, multilateral efforts will suffice to defeat the new scourge of mankind, global terrorism. The United Nations has an indispensable role to play, being the most universal and representative intergovernmental organization and the best forum for the practice of multilateralism. However, the success of 18 multilateralism and collective security will depend on how the reforms of the United Nations system are implemented. In this regard, we applaud the initiative of our illustrious compatriot, Secretary-General Kofi Annan, in setting up the United Nations High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, to make proposals on how the United Nations can best be reformed to meet the new challenges of our world. We, in Africa, agree that the objectives of the United Nations reforms, including the revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform of the Security Council, are aimed at enhancing the role of the Organization and its capacity to overcome current threats and emerging challenges. The reforms should be in conformity with the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and the process must be based on full consultations in a democratic and transparent manner. To this end, we look forward to a revitalized General Assembly that would assume its rightful position as the most authoritative and representative organ of the United Nations. With regard to the Security Council, the African position emphasizes the need to democratize and ensure equitable geographical representation, with Africa allotted no less than two permanent seats and five non- permanent seats in the expanded Security Council. I wish to address the crucial issue of poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development in developing countries in which widespread poverty is endemic, particularly in Africa. As we strive to overcome our current economic woes, we need the worldís solidarity, resources, technical know-how and support. The historic Millennium Summit of the United Nations, which brought together 189 nations in September 2000 and adopted the Millennium Declaration, was a clarion call for action to solve these problems and set forth the Millennium Development Goals with measurable goals and targets for combating them. On that occasion, the international community pledged to spare no effort to free our fellow men, women and children from the abject and dehumanizing conditions of extreme poverty. Africa has adopted the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), which reaffirms our belief that Africans have the primary responsibility to solve the problems of poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy afflicting the majority of our population and to stem Africa's marginalization from global markets. In tandem, we are striving to foster political stability, accountable and transparent governance under the rule of law, because we believe it is the right thing to do. Ghana has volunteered as the first country in Africa for the African Peer Review Mechanism, and my Government is cooperating with the review panel to facilitate the preparation of the review report, because we in Ghana cherish very much our democracy and our commitment of respect for human rights and the rule of law. Our renewed resolve, within the context of NEPAD, to accelerate the sustainable development of the continent, dovetails fully with the avowed commitment of the international community to help achieve the Millennium Development Goals. It was, therefore, a very welcome and positive development when the General Assembly, in its resolution 57/7 of 4 November 2002, urged the international community to organize support for African countries within the framework of the principles, objectives and priorities of NEPAD. However, for this convergence of vision and effort to yield the desired results, there must be genuine partnership between Africa and the international community. The implementation of NEPAD and the creation of institutions such as the Pan-African Parliament, the Peace and Security Council, the Economic, Social and Cultural Council, and various commissions of the recently established African Union, reflect Africaís determination to be the architect of its own future. The initiatives of the Economic Community of West African States, the West African regional body currently chaired by the President of Ghana, Mr. John Agyekum Kufuor, in dealing with the conflicts that have recently plagued our region are good examples of this development. Accra has been the venue for successful peace talks concerning Liberia and, most recently, on 29 July 2004, CÙte díIvoire, which has revived hopes for a durable peace in that important West African country. The important decisions taken at the last summit of the African Union in Addis Ababa have given cause for cautious optimism as the political leadership, Governments, the public, civil society and the private sector now seem to have embarked upon a journey of collaborative effort to put an end to conflicts and to focus instead on the promotion of peace, security and sustainable development for the benefit of the peoples of the continent. 19 It is disheartening, though, to observe that, despite the good intentions of the international community, as exemplified at the various international forums that have followed the Millennium Summit, there has not been any significant achievement due to the absence of genuine global partnership for development. There continues to be an agonizing paradox between the summit and conference declarations of a new global partnership and the persistence of an asymmetrical global system that works largely against the interests of developing countries. Quite evidently, the laudable long-term initiatives to halve hunger and poverty by the year 2015 cannot be achieved without a fundamental restructuring of the global trade system, particularly in agricultural products. Such an initiative should include developed countriesí dismantling subsidies and lowering tariffs, thereby helping to uphold and safeguard an open, equitable, rule-based, predictable, non-discriminatory trading and financial system. The concerns of developing countries have been reiterated in this Assembly over the years; we therefore urge our developed partners to act now. For many countries in Africa, stable long-term planning will be impossible without more systematic and sustained debt relief. Despite the progress recorded in the implementation of the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative and the provision of substantial debt relief by bilateral official creditors, achieving long-term debt sustainability and, at the same time, a reduction in poverty as targeted, remains a major problem for many African countries. We, therefore, welcome the initiative of British Prime Minister Tony Blair in setting up the African Commission. Official development assistance (ODA), as we are aware, continues to play an essential role in complementing other sources of financing for development and creating a congenial environment for private sector activity. Although ODA flows, which decreased in the 1990s, have picked up in recent years, the fact that these flows remain, on average, still far below internationally agreed targets is a major cause for concern. In this connection, it is pertinent to recall that an additional $50 billion a year in development assistance would be required as a minimum to meet the Millennium Development Goals. The fundamental question facing the international community is whether it is committed to the indispensable, challenging, but ultimately rewarding global partnership, which alone can make this dream come true. The HIV/AIDS pandemic is a global emergency and a key threat to achieving the Millennium Development Goals, especially for countries in sub- Saharan Africa. The pandemic has caused untold suffering and death in our countries, destroying entire communities, reversing development gains and posing a serious security threat. Unfortunately, despite the substantial measures taken by the Government in combating the scourge, Ghanaís efforts have been severely constrained by a lack of adequate resources required to prevent new infections, provide care and support for people, particularly women and children living with HIV/AIDS. We wish to urge the international community to provide the needed resources for the fight against this global emergency. Ghana attaches great importance to the empowerment of women to make them equal partners in the formulation and implementation of development policies. Since the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, gender equality has been an essential element of Ghanaís efforts to attain sustainable development. The active involvement of women in political processes and decision-making at all levels and in all sectors is being vigorously pursued. Impediments such as discrimination and violence against women are being dealt with through education, advocacy and legislation. Despite the strong political will within the international community to create a world fit for children, the reality in many parts of the world is a far cry from the ideals voiced at the twenty-seventh special session of the General Assembly, on children. We call for the adoption of effective policies to eradicate poverty, to ensure access to education and to provide families with support to guarantee the well- being of children. Decisive international cooperation is also required to strengthen legal and other preventive mechanisms to tackle effectively the increasing practice of child trafficking for unconscionable exploitative purposes. Ghana believes that the staff of the Organization, who make sacrifices daily to maintain peace and security in zones of conflict and humanitarian disaster, deserve to be provided with a secure and safe 20 environment in which to operate. In that regard, we will continue to condemn all attacks against United Nations personnel and call for firm action by States to establish conditions that prevent such attacks, in fulfilment of the obligations of host countries towards the United Nations and its personnel. Ghana, as a major troop-contributing country, will continue to support United Nations peacekeeping operations globally, as well as in Africa. That commitment, which began with our participation in the United Nations Operation in the Congo in 1960, is born of the firm moral conviction in our solidarity for humanity and the knowledge that a lack of peace and stability anywhere can be a real threat to peace and security for all of us. In conclusion, I urge Member States to rededicate themselves individually and collectively to the ideals that underpin the Organization and provide it with the commensurate resources as it strives to fulfil the aspirations of the peoples of the world. We cannot, should not and must not fail in that undertaking.First of all, on behalf of the members of my delegation and on my own behalf, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, upon your election to the presidency of our Assembly. Your election is a great tribute to both our subregion in Central Africa and to your country, the Gabonese Republic. It is also a sign of recognition of your abilities as a statesman and a guarantee of our work’s success. My thanks and my congratulations also go to your predecessor and his team for their dedication and the enthusiasm with which they did a great deal of work — which was much appreciated by all — in a particularly tense environment marked by animated debates about the Iraqi crisis. Finally, I would like to pay a particular well- deserved tribute to the Secretary-General of our Organization, our brother Kofi Annan, whose commitment and unceasing efforts to establish lasting peace and sustainable development in the world are praiseworthy. He can count on Chad’s support for all of the initiatives that he is still undertaking with courage and tenacity, particularly in dealing with the problems and conflicts in Africa, initiatives through which he is thus contributing to restoring our Organization’s credibility. A year ago, when we addressed this Assembly and reiterated our commitment to defend the great causes of mankind, we took that opportunity to condemn terrorism and all forms of blind violence and intolerance that could lead our world astray. We recalled at the time that our States needed to apply the United Nations Charter in reacting to terrorist acts — or acts considered as terrorist — that constitute a threat to international peace and security. We reiterate those appeals, and call again on the sense of responsibility of our States to act together to curb by all possible means the major scourges that are such a dangerous threat to all mankind, physically as well as socio-economically. 5 With respect to combating terrorism, the Government of Chad, for its part, is actively cooperating with the appropriate institutions of the United Nations, under Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), in order to strengthen its national capacity to prevent and combat this scourge. The past year for Chad, as for many African countries, was a year of serious concerns regarding the armed conflicts raging everywhere — conflicts that took peaceful populations hostage, destabilized our States and continued to jeopardize the joint efforts being made to establish democratic institutions and promote socio-economic progress. Let us say, however, that the accomplishments under the agenda that led to the re-election of the President of Chad, His Excellency Idriss Deby, for a second term are progressing at a reasonable rate in spite of various difficulties. This agenda, which is perfectly in line with the Millennium Development Goals, seeks to create, through good governance, conditions that are conducive to the strengthening of peace and stability in the country so that we can promote education and health for all social strata, employment — particularly for the youth and women — and true synergy among the different forces and competencies arising from the various national entities. This must be done so that we can do an effective job in combating poverty and the great pandemics, such as HIV/AIDS and malaria. I recall here that this agenda, in which the fight against illiteracy and ignorance is written in capital letters, is based on the most important principles: peace, security and justice. Without these, it will not be possible to build a society in which universal values such as democracy and the respect for human rights are ensured. In addition, the task of adapting our legislation to national and international realities was imposed on our national representation meeting, which made a commitment on 26 May 2004, to a procedure aimed at amending some provisions of the Fundamental Law adopted by referendum on 31 March 1996. This procedure, which will harmonize the Constitution with the requirements of democracy and fundamental freedoms, is in keeping with the final provisions of the Constitution, which itself authorizes the revision. In this context of globalizing economies, in which the rules of the game are constantly being subverted, in particular by the practice of the largest States of subsidizing their own agricultural products to the detriment of the poorer countries, all efforts to resolve these developmental problems have been inconclusive. Even a strict application by our States of structural adjustment measures is still seriously threatened by the double weight of foreign debt and the complexity of social problems. Those issues make it practically impossible to take action to stimulate economic growth in the developing countries. With the exception of oil resources, we are witnessing an ongoing decline in export earnings due to fluctuating commodity prices on international markets, and losses, caused principally by the policy of providing subsidies, continue to grow; yet States have been slow to help the least developed countries by meeting the commitments they made at successive development conferences. Here, let me speak of the cotton initiative, whose purpose is to obtain compensation for harm caused by subsidies that have been detrimental to the economies of cotton-producing African countries. It is increasingly urgent to ensure respect for the laws of competition, which the States seen as the principal initiators and defenders of free markets now seem to be disregarding. As if that were not enough, in addition to the inherent difficulties of the international economic environment, those very farmers are today confronting a threat of an entirely different scope: the invasions of locusts. This raises the spectre of famine throughout the Sahelo-Saharan countries. Chad is in a natural reproductive zone for locusts and is also considered a corridor for locust swarm migration. The situation is of even greater concern because, in addition to the other difficulties, the areas exposed to locust invasion are the ones that are protecting the Sudanese refugees. Our countries have taken the appropriate measures, thanks to the assistance of our partners; we have thus been able to deal with the progress of the first locust swarms. However, the threat has not disappeared. At the risk of having to manage a humanitarian crisis that could result from the destruction of food crops by the locusts, we must mobilize financial resources and the necessary technical and logistical means while we still have the time, in order to curb the scourge. We thank the countries and international 6 organizations that have helped my country, and I take this opportunity to reiterate my Government’s appeal to the international community for vigorous action against the threat of locusts. Responses to the appeal will help us set up appropriate structures for preventive action. While speaking of natural disasters, I must mention the consequences of tropical depressions that are doing a great deal of damage and that have, in the past few weeks, claimed thousands of victims among the populations of the Caribbean islands. We express our sympathy to those populations, and I would ask the wealthy nations to provide the needed assistance to help them recover from the disaster. In addition to natural disasters, armed conflicts too play a part in exacerbating the social crises from which our people are suffering. In 2004, my country and the United Nations have engaged in intensive diplomatic activity related, inter alia, to the humanitarian and security situation along the border between Chad and the Sudan. That situation, which is the result of a conflict between the rebels of Darfur, and the central Government in Khartoum, is of serious concern to my Government. The scope of the hostilities and the violent excesses perpetrated against civilian populations by the various parties to the conflict, have provoked massive and continuous flows of Sudanese refugees to the eastern and north-eastern regions of Chad. That flow has consequences for our people and for the environment, whose ecosystems were already in a precarious state of fragility caused by the aridity of the soil and the climate. The President of the Republic of Chad quickly understood the consequences of the conflict and made a commitment to help our brothers in the Sudan find a peaceful solution, by offering to mediate between the parties. He personally initiated the inter-Sudanese negotiations on the Darfur conflict, with the signature of the Abeche Agreement on 3 September 2003. That process was followed by the 8 April 2004 N’Djamena agreement on a humanitarian ceasefire, and the 25 April agreement on a joint commission; these will provide a framework for negotiations on a final and comprehensive settlement of the conflict. In other words, we could not remain indifferent to the tragedy that the people in Darfur were experiencing. It is our duty, more than any other country, to help our brothers in the Sudan to reconcile. We have spared no effort to help President Omer Hassan A. Al-Bashir and his Government, while respecting the sovereignty of their country, to resolve the Darfur conflict. Thus, we took the risk of exposing ourselves to criticism from the rebel movements, which accused us of favouritism, as well as the discontent of the Chadian people related to the people of Darfur. This clearly contradicts the widespread disinformation claiming that the Government of Chad might have supported some kind of rebellion against the legitimate authorities of the Sudan, with which our country has close ties of friendship and cooperation in all areas. We will never stop fulfilling our mission to mediate alongside the African Union to urge our Sudanese brothers to renounce war once and for all and to promote sincere dialogue in order to resolve the conflict. In spite of the recent uncertainties due to the hardening of positions, we place our hope in the Abuja talks under the auspices of His Excellency President Olusegun Obasanjo of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, current Chairman of the African Union. We believe that the adoption of Security Council resolution 1564 (2004), whose full implementation by the Government of the Sudan is expected in order to facilitate conditions conducive to the return of populations to their homes, will be followed by complementary measures aimed at convincing the other parties to the Darfur crisis to take a constructive approach at the negotiating table. We hope that the international community will be firm with all sides in order to promote a successful conclusion of the process of a political settlement of the Darfur crisis. Throughout the terrible times the populations along the border of Chad and the Sudan have endured, international solidarity has been evident. I must express the appreciation of the Government of the Republic of Chad for the many forms of assistance we have received from the international community, which has allowed us to help the refugees. I would also like to call upon States and organizations represented here to convey to the appropriate authorities in their countries and organizations an appeal to continue or renew humanitarian assistance to the refugees, whether from southern Sudan or southern Central Africa, whom we are sheltering in the south of our country. 7 I would also like to ask the international community to help the populations of the host regions not only to provide shelter for the refugees but also to make possible the reconstruction of their socioeconomic structures that have been affected by the unexpected flow of refugees. The flow of refugees and their prolonged stay in Chad would — if we are not careful — have consequences which might be dangerous to the security of my country. Having agreed to abide by the international commitments it has freely entered into, Chad is receiving the refugees and looking out for their safety. In the long term, the international support that my country enjoys should focus on promoting the voluntary return, within a short and reasonable time, of refugees to their countries of origin. International assistance to refugees must therefore be designed and conducted so as not to perpetuate the presence of the refugees in Chad. While we are working together with the international community to ease the pain of the refugees on our soil, we say frankly that we can in no way tolerate Chad being used as a base for subversive actions, for acts of terrorism or for the conduct of hostile or destabilizing actions against the institutions of the refugees’ countries of origin. Thus, the Government of Chad will act, with all the unambiguity reflected in its current position, against refugees who become involved in such activities. The gravity of the humanitarian and security situation born of the crisis that is raging in Darfur has not deflected my country’s attention from other similar concerns on the continent. We are following attentively and with great interest the evolution of other conflicts that are taking place in Africa and in other parts of the world. We are pleased to see the efforts being made within the African Union and the United Nations to find lasting solutions; we are available to help as best we can. Therefore, the Government of Chad has decided to respond to the needs outlined by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations by making available to the United Nations a contingent of 150 qualified men. On this solemn occasion, how could we fail to recall the unjust and undemocratic situation that characterizes the structures of our Organization? I would like to say firmly that my country remains committed to the common African position regarding the restructuring of the United Nations, including the enlargement and reform of the Security Council in order to ensure equitable representation of all regions. All the initiatives taken by Secretary-General Kofi Annan regarding United Nations reform are much appreciated by my country, which awaits with interest the outcome of the deliberations under way. The objective is the revitalization of the United Nations. All suggestions should help us to improve the performance of the principal organs and the functioning of present and future funds and programmes. To that end, my country would expect account to be taken of the concerns and viewpoints of Member States and groups of States that have been reiterated on many occasions in the Assembly. Chad awaits with equal interest the outcome of the study on globalization: the current characteristics and direction of globalization by no means enable weaker or transitional economies to benefit fully from the opportunities it offers. Another injustice should be pointed out. I must draw the Assembly’s attention to the question of the exclusion from our ranks of a large community of the 23 million men and women of the Republic of China on Taiwan. Those men and women, who increasingly are asserting themselves in international trade and are generating wealth throughout the world, deserve to be fully associated in decision-making on subjects and in areas with an impact on their lives and those of all humankind. The United Nations would have everything to gain and nothing to lose with their active participation in debates on the many topics of international concern. Their contribution would undoubtedly enrich the Assembly debates and would help us build the operational capacity of our world institutions, funds and programmes. The distressing legacy of armed conflicts includes buried caches of abandoned munitions and unexploded ordnance and, in particular, anti-personnel mines. Referring to the danger of landmines, the Secretary-General has said that these abominable weapons, buried by the millions, are not only waiting silently to kill or maim innocent children and women, but their presence — or even the threat of the presence of one single landmine — can put a stop to crop cultivation, deprive an entire village of its livelihood and thus place one more obstacle along the difficult path to reconstruction and development. Chad is 8 actively participating in the preparations for the Ottawa Convention review conference soon to be held in Nairobi and will continue to act to eliminate all of these arms so as to attain the objective of an Earth without mines. I would like to take this opportunity to thank, without exception, all the States and all the intergovernmental and non-governmental institutions that have helped us establish and implement our humanitarian demining programmes. We ask them for their continued generosity, and we ask them to extend their assistance to survivors among the victims of landmines, to help design and implement programmes enabling these individuals to be reintegrated socially and professionally. I appeal to all United Nations Member States to join in this humanitarian undertaking by acceding to the Ottawa Convention banning anti- personnel landmines.It is a source of pride for Africans and our friends alike to see you, Sir, presiding over the demanding business of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. You bring to your high office the immense wisdom and experience you have gained over the years as a dedicated public servant and Cabinet minister of the Gabonese Republic. You hold in your capable hands the mandate given to you by the Charter of the United Nations to give new impetus to the promotion of peace, human security and sustainable development throughout the world. I congratulate you warmly and pledge Namibiaís full support to you personally and to your Bureau. You will recall, Mr. President, the renewed spirit and firm resolve for change demonstrated by African leaders in July 2002 in Durban, South Africa. There, we stressed a new beginning for Africa in transforming the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and launching the African Union and its development arm, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD). We also reiterated our commitment to embrace the African diaspora in consolidating and transforming our continent. I am, therefore, delighted to note that the outgoing President of the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte, hails from the sister country of Saint Lucia in the Caribbean. I pay tribute to him for his excellent and successful service to the United Nations. During his tenure of office, he showed leadership and dedication to world peace, security and sustainable development. We are gathered once again at United Nations Headquarters to reaffirm the precious ideals, principles and purposes of the Organization, and to transform them into action towards ending armed conflict, saving our children and investing resources to eradicate hunger, disease and poverty in the world. Our illustrious and hardworking Secretary- General, my dear brother Kofi Annan, has left no stone unturned in his tireless efforts to exert his authority in conflict situations. His insistence on the centrality and legitimate responsibility of the Organization to be on the side of the poor, the weak and the needy in the world should be commended. In his annual report on the work of the Organization (A/59/1), the Secretary- General once again reminds Member States of the terrible state of the world, and offers real alternatives for world peace and security, social development financing and the mitigation of the effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other infectious diseases. I commend the Secretary-General for his worthy interventions and effective leadership. During the 1999-2000 period, Namibia had the rare honour and privilege of serving the Organization in two capacities. My country served both as a non- permanent member of the Security Council and, simultaneously, as President of the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly, whose task, among others, was to prepare for the Millennium Summit and the adoption of the historic Millennium Declaration. I was thus called upon to co-chair that Summit together with my Finnish counterpart, Her Excellency Ms. Tarja Halonen. At that memorable Summit, the largest ever gathering of world leaders unanimously endorsed the far-reaching Millennium Development Goals and targets. Today we all remain bound by that historic and unique undertaking. Member States collectively pledged, among other things, to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger; achieve universal primary education; promote gender equality and empower women; reduce child mortality and improve maternal health; combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other diseases; ensure environmental sustainability; and develop a global partnership for sustainable development. By endorsing those Development Goals and targets, our Governments have made a serious and irrevocable commitment, through reliable public policy interventions, to care for the millions of our children all over the world who are asking for nothing more than love, protection and a peaceful childhood. In this undertaking, we cannot ignore the ever- widening income gap between the rich and the poor, between the industrialized North and the developing South. This situation represents a dangerous time bomb, which the world can ill afford to let take its own course. Our planet Earth is too small to perpetuate the unacceptable juxtaposition of abject poverty and abundant prosperity. We will deal with this situation effectively only when we promote mutually beneficial commercial trade between the North and the South within the framework of North-South and South-South cooperation. I would like to emphasize that the Millennium Development Goals and targets by themselves are only 7 declarations of intent. Our Governments must translate them into sustainable policies, buttressed by adequate financial and technological resources, to make a real difference in the lives of our peoples. For its part, Namibia, in cooperation with the relevant United Nations agencies, has adopted a countrywide programme to implement the Millennium Development Goals and targets. In addition to deploying our own resolve and capabilities, we call upon other development partners to assist us in our national efforts towards nation-building, reconciliation and transformation. At the initiative of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of the Federative Republic of Brazil, world leaders converged at United Nations Headquarters on 20 September 2004 to exchange views and find workable solutions aimed at bringing an end to hunger and poverty in the world. We commend him for that important initiative, in which we participated. At the end of the meeting, a declaration was adopted, which Namibia fully supports. We call upon Member States and other stakeholders to implement it with due urgency. The world has enormous resources with which to fight and defeat poverty, hunger and underdevelopment. In this process of dialogue, we must insist on a realistic balance between the total world spending on war and weapons technology on the one hand and the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals and targets on the other. What is required is political will and compassion on the part of world leaders. The debate on weapons of mass destruction must not divide United Nations Member States, but should lead nations to find and enhance peaceful coexistence and cooperation. Developed countries should consider their support to the countries of the South as an act of enlightened contribution to regional and global stability, and as a purposeful incentive to encourage increased mutually beneficial commercial trade and investment among all nations. I wish to underline the significance of my presence at the current session of the General Assembly. Attached to my attendance are a long history, a personal journey and an unbroken link between Namibia and the United Nations over many years. I entered this building for the first time in 1960, as a petitioner before the Fourth Committee of the General Assembly. That was my first humble but determined emergence on the diplomatic scene. I have spent many years since then, attending various United Nations debates and conferences that dealt with the decolonization of Namibia and negotiations on self- determination and independence. During those many years, I addressed some of the Security Council meetings held in respect of the question of Namibia, starting in 1971, as the first freedom fighter accorded such an opportunity. I got to meet and know many distinguished statesmen, diplomats, fellow petitioners and eminent international civil servants in New York, Geneva, Paris and other important conference venues. My Namibian colleagues and I will always treasure the advice, support and solidarity we received from the United Nations family, and from friends the world over. Many friendly nations of the world stood firm and rendered moral, material and diplomatic support to the noble cause of our freedom and independence. Many world-renowned revolutionaries, particularly on the African continent, rendered selfless sacrifices, not only towards the independence of our motherland, but also to free the African continent from colonial exploitation and apartheid. I therefore would like to salute and pay homage to the visionary leaders of the African continent who shaped the vision of African unity and the continentís emancipation from the yoke of colonialism, foreign occupation and apartheid. Among them, I pay special tribute to Kwame Nkrumah, the first President of Ghana; Ahmed Ben Bella, the first Prime Minister of Algeria; Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt; Julius Kambarage Nyerere of Tanzania; Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia; General Murtala Mohammed of Nigeria; Antonio Agostinho Neto of Angola; and other African leaders and pan-Africanists. Namibiaís protracted liberation struggle was bloody and bitter. It caused the untold suffering and sacrifices of our people inside the country and those of us who were forced to spend many decades in exile. After many years of struggle, the international community finally recognized and endorsed the legitimacy of our cause for freedom, equality and justice, led by our national liberation movement, the South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) of Namibia. 8 Namibia became principally the legal responsibility of the United Nations, and in that way a unique partnership was forged for a common cause between the world Organization and the struggling Namibian people, which endured for 30 daunting and eventful years. On 21 March 1990, His Excellency Javier Perez de Cuellar, then Secretary-General of the United Nations, swore me in as President of the Republic of Namibia. Later in September of the same year, I returned to the United Nations to address the General Assembly and, on behalf of my people, to thank the United Nations for the special partnership and the principled support in various forms that eventually gave birth to the 160th State Member of our Organization. I paid tribute to those United Nations civil servants and members of the United Nations Transition Assistance Group (UNTAG) who served diligently to ensure the full implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978). I also paid homage to those who died in the course of their duty in Namibia. I wish to recall with appreciation that my initial access to the United Nations was made possible by non-governmental organizations, church groups, a handful of United Nations staff members and concerned diplomats from friendly countries. I sincerely thank them all. The Namibian people salute them and will forever honour the memories we shared. Among those many organizations, I wish to particularly single out and pay deserved tribute to the Africa-America Institute for its exceptional dedication to provide and expand educational opportunities to Africans across our continent, including Namibians, both before and after our independence. I join other African leaders in welcoming the Africa-America Instituteís fiftieth anniversary education partnership campaign, which I wholeheartedly recommend for global support. By my own decision and in compliance with our Constitution, I will be serving as President of the Republic only until 20 March 2005. I will then bid farewell to my State duties and public functions. I am looking forward to a less hectic life, but I will remain a fully engaged private citizen. I intend to undertake certain causes that are dear to my heart and be ready to assist national, regional and international efforts, especially in the areas of poverty eradication, people with disabilities, food production and infrastructure development. At the beginning of my statement, I referred to the launch of the African Union, NEPAD and Africaís resolve to pursue a new beginning. I now want to add another crucial dimension, that of gender equality and the empowerment of women in decision-making and their election to national, regional and international institutions. Our subregional organization, the Southern African Development Community, spearheaded this new thinking, and we are happy that the African Union has also started implementing this progressive and forward-looking agenda. The recent inauguration of the Pan-African Parliament, which is hosted by South Africa, is a litmus test for Africaís renewal. We must not delay or fail in our joint venture to achieve the total integration of our continent. The recognition and the full participation of women in decision-making are fundamental to Africaís transformation and industrialization. With that in mind, we proudly acknowledge the election of Mrs. Gertrude Mongella of Tanzania, who became the first President of the Pan-African Parliament. There is no shortage of competent and experienced African women to lead the way forward. The African Union Commission includes female commissioners from various African countries. Africa must place at the top of its agenda the involvement and support of women as leaders and role models. Since the days of the Organization of African Unity, the United Nations and Africa have been true partners. In the process, they have offered one another mutual support and ever increasing cooperation in the vital fields of conflict resolution, peace-building, humanitarian relief and social development. Now that the African Union has established its Peace and Security Council, in addition to NEPAD, we envisage a wider scope for cooperation and resource mobilization to plan for the prevention of armed conflicts and human suffering in Africa. With the attainment of sustained peace and stability, Africaís economic growth and poverty eradication will become a reality and the hopes and aspirations of our people will be realized. To that end, 9 we need continued and strong partnership with the United Nations. From this podium and in various other forums, we have reaffirmed our belief in a peaceful, democratic, transparent and just international system. We have advocated a system that would bring the poor and the rich of the world together to save the lives of millions and pursue sustainable development and human security. To achieve that noble objective, the United Nations, in particular the Security Council, cannot continue operating on the basis of undemocratic structures of decision-making. The Council should be reformed without delay; political will is what is lacking. We can do better. Now is the time. Africa needs its place as a key player in this world body. We demand our share of responsibility. The current war in Iraq has divided the world, causing enormous human suffering and undermining international peace and security. There is widespread distrust among nations, and the danger of nuclear proliferation makes the situation even more alarming. Millions of people in Africa, especially in the Great Lakes region and the Sudan, continue to experience untold suffering due to conflict and war. Namibia is deeply concerned about the killings and the human rights violations against innocent women, children and the elderly in the Darfur region of the Sudan. We call on all parties concerned, in particular the Government of the Sudan, to implement without delay all the agreements and commitments they have made. Against that background, my Government fully supports Security Council resolution 1564 (2004) of 18 September 2004. While we support the efforts of the African Union to find a peaceful solution to that highly volatile situation, we feel strongly that the Security Council should assume full responsibility in accordance with the Charter. This problem can be resolved only through a Security Council resolution establishing a peacekeeping mission for Sudan, in particular to deal with human suffering in Darfur. In that context, as a product of the United Nations ourselves, and in the light of our commitment to the maintenance of international peace and security, Namibia is prepared to contribute a battalion to such a United Nations mission. The United Nations Settlement Plan for Western Sahara must be implemented immediately. Likewise, the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people must be realized. We, the international community, owe it to them. Namibia reiterates its call for the immediate and unconditional lifting of the United States embargo against Cuba in order to allow the people of the two countries to coexist peacefully. The global security situation is being further threatened by the emergence of mercenaries, who undermine legitimate Governments. The African continent has not been spared by this ugly phenomenon, which should be condemned by the international community. The United Nations is the ideal place for finding solutions through multilateral negotiations and compromise. The Secretary-General needs the unwavering support of all Member States in order to play an effective role in the Middle East and Africa and in conflict situations around the world. Whether fighting poverty, HIV/AIDS or terrorism, the international community must act as one. We must stop human suffering and promote security and prosperity for all. Namibia stands for peace, unity, stability and mutually beneficial economic partnership. Our Constitution is the primary guide we rely on in those pursuits. My Government is implementing Vision 2030 and the successive national development plans in stages, with a view to further enhancing economic growth and improving the living conditions of our people, including by transforming our villages into viable socio-economic participants. Poverty, education, health care, unemployment, HIV/AIDS, skills development, the empowerment of women, the protection of children and assistance to people with disabilities are among the urgent national priorities covered in those people-centred government interventions. We carry them out in partnership with business, labour and those representing civil society. Happily, the competent United Nations agencies and international experts based in Namibia are working closely with my Government to bring prosperity and transformation to Namibia and the subregion. When we succeed, Africa 10 will benefit and the world, too, will acknowledge the shared rewards of development partnerships. I conclude my statement in the confidence that, through the United Nations, humanity will triumph over the challenges that confront us today so that the future generations will live in peace, free from the scourges of war, poverty, hunger and disease. I believe strongly that our common goals and objectives are achievable because a people united, striving to achieve a common good for all members of society, will always emerge victorious. Long live the United Nations!The election of Mr. Jean Ping to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session does honour to our continent, to our subregion of Central Africa and to his country, Gabon. I congratulate him sincerely on behalf of my delegation. We are familiar with Mr. Ping’s high sense of duty, his selfless dedication to his work and his great skill, and we have no doubt that — like his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia — he will spare no effort to meet our expectations. To the Secretary-General we say how much we appreciate his initiatives and his tireless efforts to make the Organization more effective. At the Millennium Summit, Member States made solemn and very important commitments. Today, despite the fact that some progress has been made in implementing the Millennium Development Goals, the situation remains troubling. The assessment of the implementation of the Goals scheduled for 2005 is thus of particular importance. Here, we support all initiatives that would give fresh impetus to international cooperation to combat poverty and hunger. I am thinking in particular of the initiative of His Excellency President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of the Federative Republic of Brazil, which rightly focuses on the Millennium Development Goals and on the Monterrey Consensus. The African Union’s Extraordinary Summit on Employment and Poverty Alleviation in Africa, held on 8 and 9 September in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, was also intended to address those concerns. In spite of all the problems that have hobbled the Doha round of multilateral trade negotiations, the resumption of negotiations this summer in Geneva gives us some reason to hope for the establishment of equitable rules of international trade. We continue to hope for greater equity and solidarity among poor and rich nations with a view to achieving globalization that is fair. We therefore support the recommendations of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization. To meet the Millennium Development Goals, we also need peace and security — which, unfortunately, are lacking in a number of regions. The situation in the Middle East continues to concern us. Peace, that fundamental aspiration, remains beyond the grasp of 46 the peoples of the region; it is our joint responsibility to put in place the conditions for lasting peace. In Africa, the attention of the international community remains focused on the too-great number of crises. To be sure, we can be pleased at recent developments in the situation in Côte d’Ivoire, following the Accra III summit, but we must continue to work to make the process irreversible. In the Sudan, the Darfur crisis continues to be of great concern, in both its humanitarian and its political dimensions. A greater mobilization by the international community is required to support the efforts of the African Union. The objective is to avoid a disaster and to ensure peace for the people of the Sudan. In our subregion of Central Africa, we were pleased with the positive outcome on 12 July 2004 of the national forum held in Sao Tome and Principe, scheduled under the Memorandum of Understanding, dated 23 July 2003, and concluded under the auspices of the Economic Community of Central African States, the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries, the African Union, the United States of America and Nigeria. In the Central African Republic, where there is still a peacekeeping force of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, supported logistically by France, our hope is to see the democratic process move forward and proceed to the general elections which are scheduled for 2005. We welcome the efforts of the international community in Burundi — in particular, the South African mediation — for the results achieved to date. We call upon the political leaders of that country to remain focused on the national interests. Unity and development in Burundi depend on that. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, political life in the eastern part of the country in particular has recently been marked by a number of grave events such as the Ituri crisis, the Bukavu rebellion and the Gatumba massacres. We renew our support for the global and inclusive agreement, as well as for the institutions for transition. We call on the international community to continue to pay all the attention required to that country, and we support all initiatives that would increase troop strength and the means of action of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is in that context that we are pleased with today’s signature of the terms of reference of the joint oversight mechanism between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda. That overview of the political situation in our subregion, which includes a number of countries in post-conflict situations, fully justifies the request of Central Africa to have a United Nations office. We are pleased with the existence of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Questions of Security in Central Africa and, in particular, the work given to that Committee. We wish to continue to have the input of the Committee in its relations with the competent bodies of the subregion, in light of what is at stake. Similarly, we expect implementation of the conclusions of the multifaceted mission that was dispatched to Central Africa in June 2003 by the Secretary-General. We appreciate those conclusions as being very relevant, especially those establishing programmes for disarmament, demobilization and reintegration to help consolidate the peace processes taking place; helping to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS; stopping the circulation of small arms and light weapons; protecting the environment and creating conditions for development in Central Africa. In order to meet all of the challenges and to establish all the conditions required for stability, we are placing our hopes on the international conference for peace, security, democracy and development in the Great Lakes region, preparations for which are already under way. That conference will undoubtedly be an excellent opportunity to search for lasting solutions to the recurrent crises that cause bloodshed in the region. I reiterate my country’s willingness to make its contribution to that process. As you know, the Republic of the Congo is among the countries in our subregion which is in a post-conflict situation. Under the leadership of President Denis Sassou-Nguesso, Congo is endeavouring at the same time, to consolidate peace and to re-establish a comprehensive macroeconomic equilibrium. Among our current priorities, the question of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration continues to be very important. Our national programme concerning those issues will, for the 2004- 2006 period, involve more than 40,000 ex-combatants. 47 The efforts of the Government, which are supported — and we appreciate that support — by the European Union, the United Nations Development Programme and the World Bank, will be continued. We would also appreciate any other contribution that would help the Congolese Government resolve that thorny issue. Additionally, Congo, in hoping to benefit from the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, is very sensitive to the decisions taken in Paris on 9 and 14 September 2004, respectively, by the Paris Club and the donors. Here I reiterate the appreciation of my Government for those efforts. Congo’s eligibility for that Initiative will undoubtedly allow us to allocate a majority of our resources for development and therefore to follow up with what was contained in our Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which we expect will be validated by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. That would help us succeed in our efforts, within our national plan, concerning good governance and transparency in the management of our national affairs. Therefore, in following up on those various objectives, our country has joined the African Peer Review Mechanism under the New Partnership for Africa’s Development and we have signed on to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. Concerning the environment, we are involved in a partnership with the international community concerning the Congo Basin Initiative. Brazzaville will shortly host a summit that will consider plans to conserve the forests of this world heritage area. We therefore welcome the support given to that plan by France, the United Nations, the European Union, the United States, Germany, South Africa and a number of non-governmental organizations. Congo reiterates its support for multilateralism. We remain convinced that the United Nations is the ideal framework for meeting the challenges that face the world. But the world has changed. New challenges are before us that require reforms that will allow the United Nations to adapt itself to current missions and the global configuration of the twenty-first century. We therefore welcome the reform process undertaken by the Secretary-General and are truly hopeful regarding the recommendations of the high- level panel which was set up to examine the principle threats and challenges to collective peace and security and to make proposals with respect to reform of the international system. Among the reforms expected, we firmly support the idea of enlarging the Security Council in its two components, namely, permanent and non-permanent members. We must take into account — among other things — the diversity of today’s world in order to highlight the criteria of geographical representation and of responsibility in the management of worldwide affairs, without ever sacrificing effectiveness, cohesion, transparency or credibility. As was stated by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, in his statement to the General Assembly at the 3rd meeting, on 21 September, “today, more than ever, the world needs an effective mechanism through which to seek common solutions to common problems.” In order do this, we must not only act together in complying with the rules that we ourselves have implemented, but we must also comply with the commitments we have made.Mr. President, I offer my congratulations and those of my country on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. Eighteen months ago, the United Nations faced divisions more serious than any since the Cuban missile crisis of October 1962. We all worried whether the strength and unity which we had built up since the end of the cold war could survive. Then last year we watched, as Secretary-General Kofi Annan stood at his now famous fork in the road. In the year since, almost instinctively, we have decided to follow our Secretary-Generalís directions. This Organization has not been plunged, as some predicted, into paralysis; instead, I have felt a powerful if unspoken determination to make the United Nations work, and to work more effectively, to fulfil its central task: to secure peace around the world. Over the last 12 months we have dealt with new crises such as that in Darfur in the Sudan, where we have set clear tasks for both the Sudanese Government and the rebel groups. We have tackled the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Great Lakes; mobilized international support for the new Iraq; and addressed a long list of hugely important subjects which rarely receive the coverage they should in the media ó Haiti, Georgia, Timor-Leste, Bougainville and Western Sahara. We have shown in those actions the unity of purpose which is one of the strongest weapons in our hands to defeat the evils which today affect the globe. And the search for consensus has not been confined to the Security Council. I am proud that just a few months after the difficult times of early last year, France, Germany and the United Kingdom came together to work, as we continue to do, on the Iran dossier before the International Atomic Energy Agency. I recognize, of course, the frustrations which all of us feel, not least over the Israel-Palestine conflict, where the clear path to peace set out in the road map and endorsed by the Security Council remains elusive. But all in all we have shown the will to make collective action work, though we know, too, that we need to go further. In particular, we need to get better at tackling threats which have changed dramatically since the founding of the United Nations. Today the greatest threats to our security often come not from other functioning sovereign States, but from terrorist organizations, from failing States and from man-made shocks to our environment like climate change, which can exacerbate State failure and breed internal instability. The High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change appointed by the Secretary-General is preparing its recommendations on ways to address the various challenges. We should remember in all this that we have one great advantage. Though its institutions and the founding text of the Charter has hardly changed in 60 years, the United Nations is not an organization set in stone, but a set of living institutions based on a shared will to make collective security work. The United Nations has adapted in the past - with the development of peacekeeping, a greater focus on individual rights and the setting of global targets for 34 development - and I am confident that it can adapt in the future. Of course, institutional change is part of that. At the United Nations foundation, one eighth of its members could expect to be elected members of the Security Council at any one time. Today that proportion is less than one eighteenth. The United Kingdom has long supported the case for expanding the Security Council to, say, 24 members, and for including amongst the permanent members: Germany and Japan, two countries which between them contribute 28 per cent of the budget of the United Nations; India, which represents one sixth of the entire worldís population; and Brazil, which just missed permanent membership back in 1945. But we should not see an expansion of the Security Council, or other institutional change, as a panacea. The biggest need is to adapt our common understanding - the United Nations jurisprudence, if you like - and its operational effectiveness so that we can respond more quickly and more thoroughly to todayís new threats. Let me highlight three areas which to me seem particularly important: first, our approach must be broader and must tackle threats to the most vulnerable, including poverty, disease and environmental degradation; secondly, we must build a new consensus by expanding the scope of collective action; and, thirdly, we must deal with the threat of terrorism, which menaces us all and everything for which we stand. Let me now take these three points in turn. First, there is the need for a broader approach which addresses the complex and interdependent nature of security today. Here, we have to do more to meet the Millennium Development Goals and to promote sustainable development, especially in Africa. We cannot have security without development or development without security. As the Secretary-General highlighted in his speech this week, we have to do more to entrench the rule of law and justice, especially in States recovering from conflict. The United Kingdom will pursue work on the Secretary-Generalís report during its Security Council presidency next month. We could also use the United Nations better, to agree to monitor and help implement globally accepted norms of good governance. And we need to act together quickly on climate change, perhaps the greatest long-term threat to our world in terms of stability and security. We have to implement Kyoto - and I greatly welcome what my colleague, His Excellency Sergey Lavrov had to say on that today - and agree to emission reductions beyond 2012. My second point is the need to build a new consensus on the scope of collective action. We all represent independent, sovereign states. But even as we founded the United Nations we recognized that sovereignty was a trust in the hands of a nationís government: there to be respected, not abused, from either without or within. The Charter set out arrangements so that an abuse from without could be dealt with through the inherent right of self-defence recognized in Article 51 of the Charter. But it also said that an abuse from within which threatens the peace could and should be dealt with by the Security Council, under the powers enshrined in the other articles of Chapter VII of the Charter, and by the many conventions concluded within the United Nations framework, including, for example, the 1948 Geneva Convention. No longer - we all said - could or should the world turn away from unspeakable barbarities like that of the Holocaust. But we have not always lived up to those high expectations, as the tragedies of Rwanda and Bosnia ten years ago reminded us. Today we must resolve to do so and to engage in situations of humanitarian catastrophe or grave violations of international humanitarian law and to act in the face of other threats to international peace and security. The principle of non-interference has to be qualified by a duty to protect, especially where Governments are failing in that duty. We therefore need, for example, to be ready to support greater use by the Secretary-General of his powers under Article 99 of the Charter, to bring threats to peace to the Security Council's attention. We have to act quickly in response, because prevention is far better than cure. We should look to work more closely with regional organizations, as we are doing with the African Union in Darfur. We need more discussion on the criteria as to when the international community might have to intervene with military force in extreme circumstances. We must get better at engaging for the long term in countries recovering from conflict, 35 coordinating our efforts in response to locally agreed priorities. My third point is the urgent need to combat global terrorism, a menace directed at us all. If we have learned anything in the three years since 11 September 2001 it is that international terrorism is indiscriminate in its targets and merciless in its hatred. Christian, Jew, Hindu, Buddhist, Sikh, Muslim, people of no religion or any religion, and of every or no shade of political opinion, all have died through the terroristsí bullet or bomb. My friend Sergey Lavrov spoke eloquently a moment ago about the tears still wet for the terrible, unspeakable massacre of the young and innocent that took place in Beslan. Sergey, your tears are my tears; Russiaís tears are the worldís tears. We are all in the fight against terrorism together. Today in Iraq we are seeing again the depths to which the terrorists plumb. The vast majority of the victims of terrorism in Iraq are Iraqis. Our thoughts and condolences are with the Government and people of Iraq and with their families. But some of the victims of terrorism in Iraq are foreigners who are helping Iraqis to build a more stable and prosperous country. One of them is Kenneth Bigley, a British engineer held hostage by terrorists who have already barbarically murdered his two American comrades. Our thoughts and prayers are with their families. We continue to do all we can to secure Mr. Bigleyís release. I know - how could I forget - that opinions have differed over the rightness of the military action taken in Iraq 18 months ago. But I warrant that no nation is in favour of the terrorist insurgency now occurring there. For we all recognize that what is being attempted by the terrorists in Iraq is an attack both on the Iraqi people and on everything for which the Organization stands: safety, security and human rights. We have to come together to defeat the terrorists and their despicable aims. The threat of terrorism confronts democratic, properly functioning States with an acute dilemma, namely, how to fight those who recognize none of the values for which we stand while remaining true to those values. Our commitments under international conventions express many of those values and the importance that we attach to them. But equally, those conventions cannot be allowed to shelter those involved in terrorism. The conventions were designed to protect citizens from abuse by States, not by terrorists. The 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees protects those with a well-founded fear of persecution. I am proud that the United Kingdom and so many other nations have offered that protection when and where it was required. But as the 1951 Convention itself sets out, asylum is not an unqualified right. It does not apply to anyone who has committed a war crime, a crime against humanity or other serious crime; nor does it apply to anyone who is guilty of acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. We must never stoop to the level of the terrorist ó to torture, mistreatment or unjustified incarceration ó nor will any country within the European Union be party to the return of suspects to such conditions, nor to face the death penalty. But we cannot let terrorists exploit a protection designed for the persecuted, not the persecutors. We in the United Kingdom shall therefore be working closely with Russia on its important draft Security Council resolution, to see how best we can prevent those who commit, support and finance terrorism from sheltering behind a refugee status to which they are not entitled. Along with the Russian Federation and other partners in the Security Council, we also wish to look at ways to ensure the speedier extradition of such individuals. We, the United Nations, have over the last year begun to show a new determination to come together and to make collective action work. A year from now, we will meet again here to review the recommendations of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, as well as the Millennium Development Goals, and to set the United Nations agenda for the next decade. The United Kingdomís chairmanship of the G-8 next year will focus on tackling climate change and on Africa, on which the Independent Commission for Africa will be producing recommendations as to how best we can support the radical agenda for change and development designed by Africa itself through the New Partnership for Africaís Development and the African Union. Our presidency of the European Union will help us to lead efforts for a successful outcome in the Doha Development Round, and for building the European Unionís crisis-management capabilities. More than ever, global security is our shared responsibility. In the year ahead, as we continue to 36 adapt to todayís threats and challenges, we must find renewed determination and political will to make collective security work. The United Kingdom is determined to play its full part in that endeavour.I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I am confident that your wisdom, drawn from the positions of your friendly country of Gabon, will stand you in good stead in promoting dialogue among the peoples and the countries of the world, in invigorating the role of the United Nations and in preserving its Charter. I also express my appreciation, Sir, to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his efforts to bring the previous session to a successful conclusion. I take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the Secretary-General for his patience and efforts to make the voice of the United Nations heard in a precarious international situation, amid volatile regional conditions, in which force is preferred to law, wrong preferred to right and war preferred to peace. Our world has been going through extremely difficult times since 11 September 2001. That is particularly true of the United States and the Middle East. The 5 United Nations could have very well shared the fate of the League of Nations in the 1930s, although very little thought was given to the dire consequences that such a development would have entailed, given the absence of other alternatives. It is no exaggeration to argue that the major challenges today to the questions of peace, security and development stem not only from failing to heed the United Nations Charter but also from manipulating some of its Articles to greatly disrupt and derail international relations and to deliberately upset the international equilibrium that we inherited from the cold war era. Thus, it becomes clear that the surge in extremism, the diversity of its causes and manifestations and the spread of poverty and hunger across large parts of the world are not the concern of only one country, one people or one religion, but, rather, of all peoples, countries and religions of the world. It is also clear that this deteriorating situation, which the international community acknowledges but has failed to strive in earnest to remedy, will not serve anyone in particular. This is all the more true now that the justifications of the cold war era, with its enormous expenses on armaments, can no longer be invoked and that pre-emptive wars, with the great losses in life and property they entail, have proven useless. The mistakes committed during the world war on terror, regardless of whether they were committed in good faith or in bad faith, have worked as a call to promote and practice terrorism, which has been embraced by an enemy whose whereabouts we do not know. This enemy is committing acts so horrific that they remind us of the Middle Ages. In this context, the peoples of the developing countries are wondering why hundreds of fighter jets and thousands of soldiers would be hauled across the continents and why billions of dollars would be spent to bring about a regime change in certain countries when those resources could have been channelled — even partially — into financing education and development projects in those same countries? When reform becomes a national and an international demand, how can we justify to those seeking reform the fact that the movers and the shakers of the world chose to impose sanctions instead of investing in peace and prosperity and chose to spend billions on war instead of opting for the road that would surely lead to reform and progress? Is it possible to prove that throughout history military solutions, and not political or economic solutions, have been more effective tools for reform and progress and for saving the lives of millions of people plagued by injustice, poverty and disease? At any rate, while political solutions may not necessarily guarantee full success, military solutions are definitely a recipe for failure. Moreover, while such an argument may sound idealistic, there can be no alternative to political solutions. The current international dilemma is exacerbated by military solutions. There are many examples to prove that argument. We can cite, by way of example, the situations in Iraq, Afghanistan and other places. Left alone, that dilemma will not be solved. It can only be solved if the leaders of the world work in earnest and evince the necessary political will to restore credibility to the United Nations and guarantee respect for international legitimacy through their commitment to United Nations resolutions that are based on the principles and purposes of the Charter. Justice and equality, it must be recalled, are at the core of the Charter of this Organization. The peoples of the world were optimistic about the great strides that were made in science and technology and the collective and individual achievements that spanned all fields of human endeavour in the past two decades. They aspired to a globalization with a human face that was based on a dialogue among civilizations, and synergies with other cultures, that would keep the spectre of cold and hot wars at bay. However, some power circles attempted to exploit those great human achievements to further their own narrow interests. They devised new colonialist policies that disappointed the peoples of the world and turned back the clock. At the speed of light, the world forgot about the surge of optimism that overwhelmed many of the world’s leaders as they addressed this Assembly four years ago when they celebrated the third Millennium. Today, a wave of pessimism has taken over the world because of extremist and intolerant policies advanced by some strategic think-tanks that were determined to find a new enemy, under any pretext, after the fall of the Soviet Union. 6 Israel has contributed to the creation of many of those flimsy pretexts. It has packaged them with great care, breathed life into many of them, and distributed them among the delegations that owe allegiance to it. It was hoping to achieve the following: first, to incite the Americans in particular and the West in general to wage endless wars in the Middle East, in order to underscore the old-new theory of Israel that the Arab- Israeli conflict is not the core of the problems of the region. To prove our point we refer to the argument promoted by Israel that the situation in Iraq and its repercussions are more dangerous and complicated than that prevailing in the occupied Arab territories and Palestine. Sharon is trying to mislead world public opinion into believing that achieving peace would require only the dismantling of some Jewish settler outposts in Gaza, not withdrawal from the West Bank and the occupied Palestinian territories, let alone withdrawal from East Jerusalem and accepting a just solution to the problem of the Palestinian refugees. Secondly, Israel hoped to divert the attention of the world and camouflage the settlement activities in the occupied Arab territories that have continued unabated, while continuing to build the racist segregation wall and lessening the importance of State terror perpetrated by Israel on a daily basis. Israel has repackaged its policies as an act of self-defence that does not warrant condemnation and denunciation even though it targets innocent civilians. But Israel has not fully succeeded in realizing its goals, and even where it has, that success will be short- lived because Israel has in recent years transformed its regular army into gangs bent on committing systematic killings and war crimes against Palestinian civilians, all perpetrated in the territories it occupies in the West Bank and Gaza. Killing the Palestinians often occurs in the course of house demolitions that terrorize their wretched occupants, who frequently look death in the eye. All this notwithstanding, the defenceless Palestinians have stayed the course and refused to surrender or leave. Israel bears an important share of the responsibility for the intensification and worsening of the American predicament in Iraq by avoiding the resumption of the peace process despite the hand extended to it in peace by the Palestinians, Syrians, and Lebanese. I must repeat that Israel bears an important share of the responsibility for the intensification and worsening of the American predicament in Iraq owing to its failure to resume the peace process. The Israeli course of action may come back to haunt it because its continued occupation of the Arab lands is a major cause of the rejection of American policies in the broader Middle East. That is also true in Europe where polls conducted a year ago showed that most of the citizens of the European Union believe that Israel poses a threat to international peace. Among the strategic mistakes committed by the think-tanks and research centres that owe their allegiance to Israel is to mislead the Israelis into believing that the new Iraq will hasten to conclude peace agreements with Israel and establish diplomatic relations with it before it withdraws from the occupied Arab territories. They ignored the fact that the Iraqis refused to adopt the new flag that was designed for their country after the war simply because its colours somehow bear resemblance to the Israeli flag. The deteriorating situation in Iraq remains a source of great concern for my country and other countries in the region and the world. That state of affairs should prompt all of us to mobilize all efforts to win the battle for peace in post-war Iraq. Syria, a neighbouring country directly concerned with events in Iraq — given our historic and geographical ties as well as our common national bonds with the Iraqi people — has spared no effort to guarantee Iraq’s stability, security, independence, territorial integrity and the unity of its people. We stand ready to cooperate with the neighbouring countries and all the parties concerned, including the United Nations, to enable the Iraqi people to govern themselves, manage their resources and establish optimal relations with their neighbours. Syria has repeatedly declared its commitment to a just and comprehensive peace. We continue to call for the withdrawal of Israel from all the Arab territories occupied in 1967, for guaranteeing the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to establish their own independent State with Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with the resolutions of international legitimacy, namely, Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), the Madrid 7 terms of reference and the Arab Peace Initiative endorsed by the Beirut summit of 2002. That was the basis of Syria’s serious engagement in the peace negotiations for over a decade. The literature published on the subject recently in the United States and Israel bears witness to the seriousness with which Syria approached those negotiations. What the peace process lacks today is a strategic Israeli decision comparable to the Syrian decision to achieve peace in the region. It was rather disparaging that the Foreign Minister of Israel used this rostrum of international legitimacy to ignore the facts and selectively refer to a resolution recently adopted by the Security Council on Lebanon. Israel violates Lebanese airspace, territorial waters, land borders and sovereignty on a daily basis and continues to occupy parts of Lebanese territory. The representative of Israel tried, in vain, to misguide the international community. The world community today bears witness to Israel’s persistent non-compliance with 40 Security Council and 600 General Assembly resolutions, all of which call upon Israel to withdraw from the occupied Arab territories so that a just and comprehensive peace can be established in the region. Soon after the adoption of every resolution Israel would reject it, levelling accusations and heaping insults on the Organization. It has refused to allow entry to members of fact-finding missions, and has even harassed them. Given all those facts, does anyone have the right to ask whether the statements by the representative of Israel mark the beginning of a radical change in the position of his Government, perhaps indicating the pursuit of a policy that respects international legitimacy and is committed to compliance with its resolutions? For centuries our region has endured more foreign threats and onslaughts, acts of aggression, misrepresentations of facts and use of force against our peoples than any other region. Its potential has been wasted and its material and intellectual resources squandered, thus preventing it from attaining its development goals and advancing its capacities. The Middle East suffers an explosive situation brought about by Israeli’s expansionist policies, continued occupation and virtual sabotage of any chance for peace in the region. Furthermore, Israel’s acquisition of a nuclear arsenal constitutes a major destabilizing factor in the Middle East region that threatens the future of its peoples. Syria was among the first countries of the region to call for declaring the Middle East region a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction, in particular nuclear weapons. We have seriously worked to attain that objective. We have joined the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and concluded a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). We have also contributed to numerous initiatives to attain that goal, most recently through the draft resolution we submitted on behalf of the Arab Group to the Security Council on 29 December 2003 (see A/58/667, annex). The draft resolution called for the establishment of a zone free of all weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East region, in particular nuclear weapons, in the context of a collective international monitoring regime under United Nations supervision, which would enhance the role of multilateral international disarmament conventions. International terrorism is a cause for concern for us all. Together we should work to eradicate that dangerous phenomenon by addressing its root causes. It is on this basis that Syria has condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We condemn the kidnapping and killing of innocent people and the targeting of civilians, government institutions, humanitarian agencies, religious establishments, international organizations and diplomatic missions. In that context, we reiterate our condemnation of the heinous terrorist act that killed innocent children in a school in Beslan, Russia. We also call on the international community to condemn the systematic State terror perpetrated by Israel in the occupied Palestinian territories against the defenceless Palestinian people, as well as the many massacres perpetrated by Israeli occupation forces, in which innocent children, women and the elderly are killed. During its tenure on the Security Council, Syria strove to support the Council’s efforts to combat international terrorism. It has acceded to most of the international counter-terrorism conventions as well as to the Arab and Organization of the Islamic Conference anti-terrorism conventions. The two latter conventions define crimes of terrorism and distinguish between terrorism and the legitimate right of occupied peoples 8 to resist occupation in accordance with international law and the United Nations Charter. My country is following with great concern the developments in the brotherly Sudan. That concern stems primarily from our commitment to the territorial integrity of the Sudan and the unity of its people. We view with satisfaction the positions and measures adopted by the Government of the Sudan to address the humanitarian crisis in Darfur. We believe that the League of Arab States and the African Union can play an important role in the settlement of the crisis. Syria welcomes the increased role of the African Union in seeking effective solutions to the major issues facing the countries and the peoples of Africa. We believe that the African Union’s conflict settlement mechanisms, including its Peace and Security Council, will strengthen the role of that important continent and its ability to face the challenges of peace and development. In the Millennium Declaration, world leaders underscored the need to create an environment favourable to development and to eradicate poverty at the national and global levels. Have we acted upon those commitments? How far have we gone on the road towards implementation of the Millennium Development Goals? Have we taken the necessary steps and cooperated far enough to give the necessary impetus to efforts towards progress in the entire developing world? Development is a human right to which every human being is entitled. It is not an exclusive privilege available to one side to the detriment of the other, regardless of the disparities between them. That right should be accorded priority status on our agenda, and it must not be manipulated for political gains. It is heartening to note that some enlightened leaders have taken it upon themselves to shed light on two of the most critical problems of our world: poverty and hunger. In launching the Action Against Hunger and Poverty, they proposed practical collective solutions to preserve man’s dignity. Syria welcomes the Declaration issued by the world leaders in response to the initiative of the Brazilian President to discuss that question. Syria has effectively contributed to the debate on the reform of the United Nations system, the revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform of the Security Council and the increase of its membership. Syria hopes that, at this session, the Assembly will continue to address the urgent questions of peace and development so that a broad consensus will emerge and coordinated measures will be adopted towards resolving those questions. The prime objective of reforming the United Nations is to enhance its ability to face the new threats and challenges. However, reform should be built on commitment to the principles and purposes of the Charter. Syria is following with keen interest the work of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change appointed by the Secretary-General to review current and future threats to international peace and security and the current state of affairs of the main organs of the United Nations, with a view to submitting proposals on enhancing their roles. Syria will be participating in the deliberations among Member States on the proposals and opinions of the Panel. As we have made clear in past years, Syria supports reforming the Security Council and increasing its membership. In our view, that reform should be based on the principles of universality, effectiveness, democratic participation and geographical representation, particularly of developing countries. Syria has consistently stressed the importance of assigning a permanent seat on the Security Council to the Arab States, to be allocated by rotation among the Member States in accordance with the procedures of the League of Arab States. Since its establishment, the United Nations has successfully overcome many acute regional and international crises. Its Charter has had to coexist with some of those crises. At times, the United Nations has dealt with those crises successfully. At other times, it has skirted them without actually coming to grips with them. A case in point is the Palestinian question, which is as old as the United Nations itself. The Arab-Israeli conflict still rages in spite of the fact that the United Nations has adopted more than 600 resolutions on the subject. Israel, however, has not implemented a single one of these resolutions and continues to find protection both inside and outside the United Nations. A lot has been said about establishing a greater Middle East. We are convinced that success in achieving that will remain elusive unless the relevant resolutions are implemented and peace is restored, in 9 accordance with the aspirations of the people of the region and the world.On behalf of the Government of the Sultanate of Oman, I am pleased to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of this session. We assure you that we will sincerely cooperate with you in order to contribute to the success of this session and to the realization of the desirable objectives to which we all aspire. We all hope to serve humankind and the cause of international peace and security. I also take this opportunity, Sir, to express my heartfelt thanks to his Excellency Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, your predecessor and President of the Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, for all his efforts to ensure the success of that session and of the concurrent resumptions of the tenth emergency special session. This session of the General Assembly has been convened under very complex and difficult circumstances. There has been a clear decline in the international community’s ability to unite and to reach consensus on solutions to the diverse problems that have undermined international diplomacy. Those problems have deprived preventive diplomacy of its ability to create an environment of international understanding conducive to agreement on issues of common interest to all peoples. We believe that there is an urgent need for the international community to review both regional and international policies and to put an end to the sense of uncertainty, pessimism and vagueness surrounding the work of the United Nations. States that can influence international policy have a moral and material responsibility to take the initiative to review those policies and create an environment of cooperation among international stakeholders. The region of the Middle East is the focus of global attention, because of its potential impact on international stability. We share the interest shown by many countries in the situation in the Middle East, which is prompted by the need to find solutions to the political and social problems facing the region. Here, it is worth noting that the Group of Eight, at its meeting on Sea Island in the state of Georgia in the United States on 9 June 2004, focused their interest on the Middle East. In principle, we welcome their position since we believe that closer cooperation is essential within the Group of Eight and the countries of the Middle East to consider how to prioritize the discussion of the political issues that remain the main obstacle to the march of the people of the Middle East towards progress and stability. The problem of Palestine and Israel’s continued occupation of Arab territories in Syria and Lebanon cannot be put on the back burner indefinitely. Therefore, we should seek fair and just solutions to those problems. The road map announced on 30 April 2003 was welcomed by the Arab countries but has yet to be implemented. We therefore call on the United States of America, the Russian Federation, the European Union and the United Nations — the members of the Quartet that sponsored the road map — to fulfil their commitment to the Middle East. The Security Council adopted resolution 1546 (2004), by which it transferred sovereignty in Iraq from the Coalition forces to an interim Iraqi Government. It was a milestone in the development of the situation in Iraq. However, the deteriorating security situation in Iraq remains a cause of deep concern. We believe that the interim Iraqi Government is making great efforts to restore normalcy and stability. We support the Government of Iraq in its endeavours to unify all Iraqis around a common agenda. We feel that certain successes have been achieved through the adoption of political dialogue, and that it is essential to Iraq to expand that dialogue. In the Sudan, the Government has been making commendable efforts to achieve stability in Darfur. We look forward to ongoing cooperation between the African Union and the Sudanese Government. The Government’s willingness to implement certain measures proposed by the United Nations and to cooperate with the Security Council to implement resolution 1564 (2004) deserves our support and commendation. In our view, the United Nations should provide financial and technical support to the efforts of the African Union and the Sudanese Government to achieve peace in Darfur. Moreover, we believe that any action by the Security Council against the Sudan would be harmful and would undermine the United Nations ability to work effectively on the ground. It would, moreover, hamper the efforts of the Sudan and the African Union to achieve peace. All human beings share this Earth and should work together to develop and preserve its resources. It is highly important that the international community take note of the environmental changes taking place 22 everywhere, such as the destructive storms, floods and fires that have had tremendously harmful effects on all humanity. Those phenomena may be caused by human transgression and destruction of environmental diversity. That is why the international community is called upon to study the environment and do whatever it can to stem the phenomenon of desertification and drought in order to preserve great global sources of food. Recent international policies have resulted in the emergence of serious types of terrorist acts. One of the most horrific of such acts was the hostage-taking in a school in Beslan in North Ossetia in the Russian Federation. We strongly condemn that terrorist act and express our solidarity with the Russian Government in fighting such attacks. We believe that the international community should show solidarity in the face of terrorism everywhere and engage in in-depth consideration of the phenomenon. The convening of an international conference to consider terrorism is a good idea, since the outcome of such a conference could be an important tool that would help defeat the phenomenon. The Sultanate of Oman believes that States’ accession and commitment to disarmament treaties and conventions would enhance and maintain international peace and security. In that context, we should seriously consider the possibility of establishing collective mechanisms for arms monitoring and control, based on unified standards acceptable to all, be it in the field of weapons of mass destruction or that of conventional weapons. Otherwise, the role of the world order will remain limited to theoretical studies or to drawing attention to the dangers of the arms race to development, the environment and international peace and security. The world stockpile of weapons of mass destruction, in particular nuclear weapons, could destroy human life on our planet many times over. That is why the Sultanate of Oman has signed most conventions on disarmament and arms control, including the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Biological Weapons Convention. The emergence of globalization and the World Trade Organization raised the hopes and aspirations of peoples for an era of international cooperation that would broaden sustainable development. However, the results of the new developments have been an amalgamation of democracy and dictatorship, of human rights and enslavement, of great prosperity and extreme poverty, of the provision of advanced health care side by side with fatal contagious diseases, of free trade and world trade monopoly, and of a rise in the price of industrial products and a decline in the prices of the raw materials required to maintain their production. The amalgam has led to economic imbalances. Is that what we sought to achieve? The High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change was established in the context of an initiative by the Secretary-General to seek ways of reforming the Organization, and in particular of expanding the permanent membership of the Security Council. We would welcome such an expansion in order to broaden the base of participation in the Council’s decision- making process. However, the permanent members should work to create an international climate conducive to an expansion that reflects the international will. Conditions of membership should be reviewed to include aspects that conform to international changes so as to guarantee equitable representation and international consensus if possible. We believe that it is high time for permanent members of the Security Council to review their own attitudes and policies in the Council in order to facilitate the required restructuring. We believe that the excessive adoption of Security Council resolutions on secondary international issues undermines the prestige of the Council and reduces the ability of the United Nations to deal with priority questions that are important to international peace and security. We believe that the Security Council must not interfere in the internal affairs of Member States, so as to preserve the international consensus in addressing issues related to international peace and security. The Sultanate of Oman would like to express its support to the efforts made by the United Nations. We would particularly like to express our support to the Secretary-General and to the role he plays in conducting the affairs of this Organization. Our delegation will spare no effort to ensure the success of this session, in order to realize the objectives to which we all aspire.I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election. We are pleased that a man of your ability, a Francophone representative of a friendly country, is directing our proceedings. I also wish to warmly applaud our Secretary- General. We have heard his message on respect for the rule of law. And through the Secretary-General, I wish to commend the entire staff of this institution, here and everywhere in the world: their courage and commitment are a credit to our ideals and to the organizations they serve — sadly, sometimes at the cost of their own lives. How are we to meet the challenges facing the world? That is the question we all keep asking ourselves, one after another, from this rostrum. And how are we to meet the world’s expectations unless we all mobilize? More than ever, the United Nations remains the one irreplaceable, legitimate framework for harnessing that mobilization and translating it into collective action. We have much to do: conflicts remain unresolved, while others are breaking out; poverty is declining all too slowly; people are destroyed by wars; refugees are torn from their land; and the threat of terrorism is not fading. Yes, we have much to do. Yes, we have a duty to act, and an obligation never to give up. The United Nations is acting — on all fronts, on the front line. To resolve conflicts and prevent them from flaring up again, it is present everywhere, on all continents, in Haiti, Kosovo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in Côte d’Ivoire, Afghanistan and many other fronts, deploying over 50,000 Blue Helmets. It provides assistance to 17 million people protected by the High Commissioner for Refugees. Through the World Food Programme, it feeds more than 100 million individuals. And it helps, especially through the United Nations Development Programme, 170 States or territories to develop. United Nations activities — our activities — continue to expand. Thus, the Organization is called upon to be at the centre of the counter-terrorism measures that the international community is putting in place. The threat of terrorism, now a global one, calling for a global response. That is why France committed itself here to the fight, and did so again recently by supporting the strengthening of the Counter-Terrorism Committee. The tragedy of 11 September, which I refer to with feeling here in New York City, was an attack on us all. Since then, terrorism has continued to strike: in Europe, in Madrid, six months ago; and in Asia, in Bali and Jakarta. Cowardly attacks are mounted against the weakest. How can we not be appalled at the tragedy of the school in Beslan where children — the symbol of innocence — were violently massacred? We are waging a merciless fight against terrorism. Let us at the same time address its roots. That means putting an end to situations that terrorists exploit; giving the world’s excluded hope again; restoring dignity to those peoples deprived of it; and ensuring that dialogue and cooperation among civilizations, cultures and religions prevail, rather than conflict and intolerance. Global threats require a strong, and always collective, response. The threat of proliferation, which 29 could merge with that of terrorism, calls for resolute and sustained action. The non-proliferation regime has been seriously undermined by the combined action of certain States and non-State actors. That is why strengthening existing instruments is today essential. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) Review Conference in 2005 will be an opportunity to do so. A safer and freer world is, first, a more just world. That is why we must act relentlessly to resolve conflicts. I am, of course, thinking, first and foremost, of the Middle East, where — in the wake of the hopes raised by Madrid, Oslo, Camp David and Taba — the absence of any prospect is today breeding despair, extremism and violence of every kind. This central crisis can be resolved only through a negotiated settlement based on international law, enabling all the peoples — I repeat, all the peoples — of the region to live in dignity and security. The road map, which the parties have accepted and which the Security Council has endorsed, must be implemented in full and in good faith. France hopes that the withdrawal from Gaza is a first step in that direction. It will make every effort to get the peace process under way again. It will continue to act vis-à- vis all the leaders — the elected and legitimate leaders — of that region. Let us make no mistake: building peace in the Middle East is a historic responsibility for our generation. Europe — the European Union — in partnership with the United States, Russia and the United Nations, is determined to play a political role in order to stimulate this process. In Iraq, violence is exploding. It seems to us that only when the Iraqis themselves take control of their future, and when the political process provided for by the Security Council is pursued, will the country be able to escape the chaos that is destabilizing the entire region. France, as everyone knows, did not approve of the conditions in which the conflict was unleashed. Neither today nor tomorrow will it commit itself militarily in Iraq. However, it reaffirms its willingness, with its European partners, to assist the Iraqi people in rebuilding their country and in restoring their institutions. Who can fail to see that, in the Middle East, everything is fragile and everything is interconnected? Who can fail to understand that the only path — everywhere — is sovereignty and justice for peoples? Only then will they make progress towards peace and the economic and political modernization to which they are entitled. Africa, too, is where we will win or lose the battle for justice. Without justice, there will be no peace. Without peace, there will be no lasting development. The future of the African continent, and its stability and development, are a vital objective for us all. Today, with the impetus of the United Nations, longstanding crises have been, or will be, settled — Mozambique, Sierra Leone and Liberia. Others, however, have broken out, and together we must prevent them from worsening or spreading: in Côte d’Ivoire, the Central African Republic, and Darfur. The Great Lakes region is slow to find the path to peace, just as the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea is slow to die, and the Somali question remains to be resolved. On that great continent, which is undergoing profound change, facing real threats but also considerable potential, political leaders are today demonstrating a genuine determination to commit to working to resolve conflicts and crises. That can be seen from the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD); the resolute commitment of the African Union on the political front and in the field; and the growing role of regional organizations. We resolutely support that commitment. For development, but also for peace-building, we wish to bring about the conditions for an effective and coherent partnership between North and South. Given the magnitude of the goals and needs of the continent, I firmly believe in the importance of pooling the efforts of the Europeans with those of our African partners, under United Nations auspices, whenever necessary. I am convinced that our experience of European integration — without attempting to teach any lessons — can simply be useful to that continent, and that is the sense of the statement made on our behalf by the representative of the presidency of the European Union, Bernard Bot, before the Assembly the day before yesterday. France has long been involved in strengthening African peacekeeping capacities. Today, the European Union intends to make a commitment immediately and with determination. Operation Artemis, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, is proof of that 30 commitment. The creation of the European Peace Facility now provides major support to African organizations. We are willing, if the African Union so wishes, to assist it in its action for peace, as in the Sudan. Mr. Olhaye (Djibouti), Vice-President, took the Chair. Justice and conflict prevention cannot be dissociated from collective action to promote development. The Millennium Goals — to which the developing countries, donor States and multilateral institutions are committed — are an overriding obligation for us all, especially the wealthiest countries. More than $50 billion a year is still needed to achieve those objectives — a fact of which we all are aware. On Monday, 100-odd countries endorsed the New York Declaration on Action Against Hunger and Poverty. Together they ask that additional resources be provided for development, including through innovative mechanisms. This is a powerful movement, launched in this very forum of the United Nations, aimed at generating the necessary resources for justice and for development. It is an important milestone. My country is proud to have contributed to it, through the voice of the President of the Republic, and it will continue to do so. But France is also fighting for a more controlled, and therefore most just, globalization that would give everyone a chance. We advocate the establishment of a political body, in which the United Nations must have its due place — to improve coordination of multilateral action in the economic, social and environmental fields and to provide the necessary impetus. This is one of the major issues that we must consider in coming months, especially on the basis of the proposals that the Panel on reform is expected to make. Again, a more just world is a world that respects human dignity and freedom. Fundamental human rights are universal. Each man, woman and child has these inherent rights, and it is up to us to see that they thrive and are respected. It is also up to us to fight firmly and uncompromisingly against all manifestations of violence and discrimination based on race, origin, gender or religion. Our resolve in the area of human rights, as elsewhere, must remain absolute and constant. I mean that we need a genuine dialogue with the civil society and with all non-governmental organizations. The time has come, it seems to us, to conclude the negotiation of a conventional instrument on forced disappearances, to recognize the rights of indigenous peoples and to mobilize against all forms of modern slavery. Let us not rule out the use of force, in certain cases and on the appeal of victims, to prevent massive human rights violations and acts of violence against civilians. The Security Council has the honour of assuming this responsibility, in accordance with the United Nations Charter. Let us also continue putting in place mechanisms to combat impunity, often the prerequisite for durable peace and lasting reconciliation. The establishment of the International Criminal Court specifically meets this objective. We welcome the major milestone reached with the entry into force of the Rome Statute. The dignity of humankind and peoples also requires due respect for cultures in their diversity. The sense of loss of identity contributes to the frustrations that breed a good many conflicts. The unity of the international community, it goes without saying, cannot be synonymous with uniformity. The negotiation of a convention on cultural diversity, which has just started at the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is, therefore, in our view, a key objective. It must produce a concrete result, as planned, before the 2005 general conference. Our planet is dangerous; it is also in danger. The earth is showing signs of strain; we are not maintaining it; in fact, we are plundering it; the climate is deteriorating. And yet, we should remember, scarcity of resources has at all times been a factor in conflict. For the future of our children, we must act while there is still time. Is there among us, for that matter, one single issue that more obviously ignores borders than ecology and ecological security and requires coordinated action — that is, multilateral action? International governance in environmental matters is, it seems to us, inadequate today. We must simplify and strengthen the existing international regime on environmental issues, develop monitoring, and early warning expertise, and increase financing, especially for developing countries. Let us be clear-sighted. For the environment, as for so many other issues, prevention costs less than 31 cure. In this regard, we hope the establishment of a United Nations organization for the environment will be considered, based on the achievements of the United Nations Environment Programme. We propose that this great undertaking, which is one of the Millennium Goals, be on the agenda of the September 2005 summit. In a world — our world — where 800 million people do not have enough to eat, where more financial resources are devoted to weapons than to development, where millions of men, women and children are forced to leave their land to escape destitution or massacres, the international community has a duty to act and to show imagination. It is here at the United Nations where we can meet to take initiatives, to fight misfortune and to apportion the tasks, all of them urgent. The United Nations system, which is unique and more indispensable than ever, also has an obligation to reform itself to meet new needs and new threats, and to make the most of new technologies merely in order to live in our times. The Secretary-General got down to this problem at the start of his first mandate. Considerable work has already been done. The proposals of the high-level panel will be the basis for the next, still more ambitious, stages. France has made proposals on many issues, such as peacekeeping operations, human rights and development financing. We have also indicated, with Germany, how the representativity and legitimacy of Security Council action might be improved. We advocate enlargement in both categories of members, permanent and non- permanent; and we have expressed support for the aspirations of Germany, Japan, Brazil and India, which should be accompanied by a country from Africa. In a complex and unpredictable world, it is our joint responsibility to maintain and strengthen the one institution where all nations can work together, where they can unite to shape and control their common destiny. Through its legitimacy and ever-increasing effectiveness, the United Nations must be the instrument of universal conscience for which it remains the crucible.First, I wish to warmly congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. The most recent Arab Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Programme identified the pressing challenges facing the Arab world both now and in the future. Thus, it contributed to triggering a broad debate on the future of reform in the Middle East. Partly in response, the Tunis Arab Summit adopted in May 2004 a document on the process of development, modernization and reform in the Arab world with a view to improving joint Arab action. That platform paper highlighted the need to consolidate democratic principles and to broaden the base of political participation. It also called for intensifying efforts to improve performance in the political, economic, social and educational areas by: giving more attention to youth issues, the advancement of women and the modernization of social institutions throughout the Arab world; improving education; completing the Arab common market plan; and laying out a pan-Arab economic development strategy. Jordan, for its part, supports this vision, which is in line with the plans we have already been pursuing within our national reform agenda. Jordan believes that for reform to be truly meaningful it has to emanate first and foremost from within society and be sensitive to the particular characteristics and needs of each country. Accordingly, we in Jordan sought to develop an integrated agenda that addresses the primary issues of concern to our citizens throughout the country. Those include broader political development and personal freedoms, greater roles for women and youth, a more efficient judiciary system, educational reform and the achievement of steady economic growth with a view to improving the living conditions of all individuals, leading to a more progressive, open and tolerant society. Within the same framework, the Government of Jordan sought to strengthen the partnership between the public and private sectors, both inside Jordan and at the larger, Arab regional level. The most recent inter- Arab initiative was launched by Arab private sector 12 and grass-roots civil organizations, with active Jordanian participation, in Amman on the margin of the World Economic Forum, which was convened at the Dead Sea last May. That initiative laid the foundation for the delineation of a vision for the Middle East for the year 2010. A well-developed plan of action will be laid out at the Davos World Economic Forum in 2005. The plan will provide a framework for pooling and analysing constructive inputs and proposing answers for the challenges facing Jordan and the region in general. However, the series of reform measures currently under way in Jordan will be inadequate without the support of the international community. The help we need involves support for our development projects, direct assistance to the Jordanian economy and foreign debt relief. Of special significance in this regard is the aid needed and expected from the Group of Eight industrial Powers to Jordan’s plans and initiatives, which have been based on positive, realistic and sustainable goals. The long-standing status quo in our region has made virtually impossible all serious efforts to forge ahead with the overall Middle East reform exercise. The creation of a favourable climate that helps accelerate regional development and progress depends on the termination of the Israeli occupation of Arab land on the basis of international legality with a view to ensuring security and stability in the region. The time has indeed come to focus on starting the peace process on the basis of the road map and the terms of reference it contains, including the Arab peace initiative and implementation by both the Israeli and Palestinian sides of their respective obligations under the road map. In fact, the road map provides a well- defined vision of the ultimate solution of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, namely the vision put forward by President George Bush of the United States of two States living side by side in peace. President Bush reaffirmed that position in a letter he sent last May to His Majesty King Abdullah Bin Al Hussein. The letter also elaborated the firm position of the United States, which rejects any measures that would prejudice the outcome of final status negotiations on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). The launching of any serious political process requires immediate action on the part of all parties to put an end to violence and to all forms of killing of civilians. Let me recall here that, according to the road map, the obligations of both sides must be carried out in concert. For its part, Israel should fulfil its commitments, beginning with the cessation of all settlement building and all extrajudicial killings. At the same time, the Palestinian side should complete the reforms required to control the security situation in the occupied Palestinian territories and bring violence to an end. In that regard, we welcome the decision to consolidate the Palestinian security apparatus. Israel’s announcement of its unilateral withdrawal from Gaza, however, must be effected as an integral part of the road map and within its terms of reference. The withdrawal must be coordinated with all parties concerned, especially the Palestinian side, in order to ensure a smooth transfer of power. It has become abundantly clear, now perhaps more than ever before, that there is a real need to develop an effective monitoring mechanism, operated by the Quartet, to ascertain whether all parties meet their mutual obligations and to ensure the scrupulous implementation of the road map by the two sides in their progress towards a successful conclusion. Here, I wish to pay tribute to the Quartet for its persistent efforts to maintain the momentum of the peace process. Once again, I wish to reaffirm Jordan’s commitment, along with that of all other Arab States, to the Arab peace initiative which the Arab Summit adopted in Beirut in 2002 with a view to putting an end to the Arab-Israeli conflict through the conclusion of a collective peace agreement providing for the security of all countries in the region and laying the foundation for the establishment of relations with Israel. The agreement would also create a framework for a solution to the Palestinian refugee problem on the basis of General Assembly resolution 194 (III), a full Israeli withdrawal from the Arab territories occupied in 1967 and the establishment of an independent, sovereign and viable Palestinian State. Jordan stresses the need to respect and implement the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) on the separation wall being built by Israel in the occupied Palestinian territories. The pronouncement of the International Court of Justice is the law, and no peaceful settlement of the Palestinian question can be realized unless it is based on observance of the rules of international law and the recognition of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian 13 people, including the right to self-determination. In that regard, the Court’s opinion was both clear and specific on the following points. First, the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, is an occupied territory and, under international law, Israel is an occupying Power. Accordingly, the claim that the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, is a “disputed territory” has been dismissed once and for all. Second, the relevant rules of international humanitarian law are applicable to the occupied Palestinian territories, including The Hague Regulations of 1907 and the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949, which, according to the International Court of Justice, are legally applicable to that territory. Third, the Palestinian people have the right to self-determination and Israel is violating that right in contravention of the binding norms of international law. Fourth, the Israeli settlements built in the territories occupied in 1967, including East Jerusalem, are in breach of the rules of international humanitarian law. Fifth, the construction by Israel of the wall in the occupied Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem, is illegal. Furthermore, Israel must cease its violations relating to the construction of the wall by, inter alia, dismantling those portions of it erected in the occupied Palestinian territories, reinstating the rights of the owners whose lands were lost and compensating those who incurred losses as a result of Israel’s illegal actions. Sixth, the construction of the wall and its route create a fait accompli on the ground which could become permanent and which, in that case, would be tantamount to the actual annexation of the occupied Palestinian territories. Seventh, the international community is under a legal obligation to refrain from abetting Israel in its illegal activities and is prohibited from recognizing the illegal situation effected by the construction of the separation wall. Accordingly, Jordan welcomes General Assembly resolution ES-10/15 and considers it an important step, reflecting the international community’s recognition of the legal conclusions of the International Court of Justice and its desire to take practical steps to enforce it. The separation wall threatens the national security of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. The wall is not only a barrier to the establishment of a viable independent Palestinian State, but it also partitions the West Bank into three distinct, isolated sections. Moreover, and in view of the arbitrary Israeli closures and restrictions on movement, the occupied Palestinian territories are witnessing an unprecedented level of deterioration in every aspect of their political, social, economic, security and humanitarian situation. This is bound to have a spill-over effect on neighbouring countries, especially Jordan. That is the backdrop against which Jordan supported the efforts leading to the adoption of the International Court of Justice advisory opinion and Assembly resolution ES-10/15. Jordan will continue to support the Palestinian people in its efforts to establish an independent State on its national territory, on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 1397 (2002) and 1515 (2003), the principle of land for peace, the road map and the Arab peace initiative. We also stand ready to provide any assistance that the Palestinian side might seek to help it to reform its administrative and security structures with a view to fulfilling its obligations under the road map. Jordan welcomes the formation of the interim Iraqi Government and the restoration of Iraqi sovereignty at the end of last June. In that regard, we wish to pay tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and his Special Adviser, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, for their unrelenting efforts, which culminated in the formation of the interim Government despite the enormous odds they encountered at every stage of the process. Jordan underscores its support for the Government of Iraq and stands ready to lend all possible assistance to Iraq, its people and Government in the forthcoming phase in order to enable the country to rebuild its institutions, manage its own affairs and recover its regional and international status. The ongoing transition in Iraq and the need for it to develop its political and economic processes require the cooperation of all parties. With support, the Iraqi people will be able to determine their political future without external intervention, gain control of their 14 natural resources and preserve Iraq’s territorial integrity. Despite overwhelming odds and the current instability, it is our hope that elections for the transitional national assembly and the formation of a transitional Government will be completed by the end of January 2005. Jordan calls upon all States to provide every possible assistance towards the achievement of those goals. The United Nations obviously has a pivotal role to play in ensuring a successful outcome. In that regard, we welcome the appointment by the Secretary-General of his Special Representative for Iraq, Mr. Ashraf Jehangir Qazi, and express our willingness to fully cooperate with him in order to ensure the complete and smooth fulfilment of the United Nations mandate in Iraq as set forth in Security Council resolution 1546 (2004). In the meantime, Jordan strongly condemns violence, the killing of civilians and beheadings in Iraq. We remain committed to helping our Iraqi brothers in the training of Iraqi police and army units in order to enable them to improve their capacity to restore control over the security situation, as well as through the provision of necessary humanitarian assistance. It is indeed regrettable that there is still a tiny minority representing extremist movements and organizations that seek political power by means of intimidation and violence under the false pretext of Islamic action. Such groups exploit Islam as a means of achieving political or even personal gain by resorting to violence and terrorism and thus, unfortunately, tarnishing the image of Islam, a faith of moderation and tolerance. We also condemn all acts of terror, including those gruesome and blind acts perpetrated in Madrid and Beslan, which require our firm collective stand in combating them. The events of 11 September 2001 marked a new era of immense challenge to the international community in terms of dealing with the repercussions and implications of such events. Fighting international terrorism entails taking measures that affect international relations and the principles that have guided States since the creation of the United Nations and the adoption of its Charter. In our view, a meaningful and effective global campaign against terrorism requires consensus on the following principles: Respect for the provisions of the Charter and the rules of international law, and non- transgression against the sovereignty of States; striking a balance between the counter-terrorism measures taken by States and the principles of human rights, public freedoms and non-abuse of the state of emergency to justify counter-terrorism measures; providing a clear and specific legal definition of “terrorism” as well as of the concept of “terrorist groups” that would not allow any legal justification for the commission of terrorist acts. By the same token, such definitions should not compromise the rights envisioned in the Charter and in the provisions of international humanitarian law, such as the right to self-determination. In the same vein, combating global terrorism ought not be a tool for discrimination against the followers of any creed or a cover for assault against their religious beliefs. Finally, the “no justification for terror” policy should not lead to disregard for its underlying causes. Rather, an effective battle against terrorism would require global cooperation in addressing its root causes and the genesis of the phenomenon. I am pleased to announce that the Government of Jordan has welcomed the formation of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change to examine the modalities for improving the performance of the United Nations in the maintenance of international peace and security and its reform in general. We support the exercise undertaken by the Panel and look forward to receiving its recommendations at the end of the year. We share the vision, laid out by the Secretary- General in his reports to the General Assembly, that reform is a continuous, comprehensive and dynamic process that must include all political, economic, administrative and financial activities of the United Nations. We also believe that, if reform is to succeed, genuine partnership between Member States represented by the regional groups and the Secretariat of the United Nations is required. In this regard, we believe that the thrust of reform should be an upgrading of efficiency and not a reduction in the expenditures or in the budget of the Organization. Therefore, a set of benchmarks must be developed to assess performance. In the meantime, there should be no room for the random setting of agenda priorities or for selectivity in implementing reform. 15 Regarding reform of the Security Council, I would be remiss if I failed to commend the Open- ended Working Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase in the Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters related to the Security Council. Jordan supports the principle of increasing membership in both permanent and rotating seats in order to make the Council more representative of the United Nations membership. In this regard, Jordan is of the view that the responsibilities of Council members should be reconsidered in order to ensure that all members have the capacity and political will to contribute effectively to peacekeeping operations by way of meeting their obligations under the Charter. The contribution by Security Council members of human resources to peacekeeping field operations, not just of financial and equipment inputs, is an essential requirement for the success of those operations. This is indeed a primary responsibility that must be met by members of the Security Council, especially the permanent ones. In addition, we think that effective operations require the development of a flexible mechanism that allows the adoption of clear resolutions by the Council, in close coordination with troop-contributing countries that are not members of the Council, as well as functioning in a transparent framework. In closing, let me once again thank you, Sir. I would also like to wish this session of the General Assembly every success as I pray to almighty God to guide us to better serve our people and to live up to the responsibilities entrusted to us.Allow me to convey to all members of the United Nations family the warm greetings and best wishes of His Majesty King Mswati III, Her Majesty the Indlovukazi, the Government and, indeed, the entire Swazi nation. The Kingdom of Swaziland congratulates you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of this session. We are especially proud that a fellow African has been elected to that demanding position, and we are confident that your diplomatic skill and experience will help you to lead the Assembly towards a successful conclusion of its deliberations. In the aftermath of 11 September 2001, the world is understandably preoccupied with the question of security and the war on terror. The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to condemn, in no uncertain terms, terrorism which constantly threatens world peace, security and stability. As part of our support for the alliance against terrorism, the Government of Swaziland is currently studying the United Nations conventions that deal with terrorism, to ensure not only the adaptation of such important conventions, but also compliance with them. The Parliament of the Kingdom of Swaziland will be debating, and will hopefully pass, its long-awaited anti-terrorism bill during its next session. Future world stability is also threatened by the continuing spread of weapons of mass destruction. Our failure as an Organization in that regard thus far is due to inability to agree on a time frame suitable to all Members for arms control and nuclear disarmament. The Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test- Ban Treaty (CTBT) were designed as an essential first step towards a world free from the danger that such weapons pose. We clearly need to find a way to strengthen the non-proliferation regime and to prevent the flow of conventional weapons and anti-personnel landmines into zones of conflicts or into the hands of terrorists. The Kingdom of Swaziland therefore calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to implement the proposal of the Non-Aligned Movement by establishing, as its highest priority, an ad hoc committee to begin negotiations on a programme for the complete and time-bound elimination of nuclear weapons from those countries that have them. While the possibility of global conflict has diminished since the end of the cold war era, it is a fact that there has been a corresponding increase in the incidence of internal conflicts and cross-border disturbances, arising from a variety of causes, including ethnic and religious confrontation. The situation in the Middle East is inevitably at the centre of the debate on peace and security. The Kingdom of Swaziland pledges the continuation of our support for all initiatives and efforts aimed at resolving that situation and at bringing peace and stability to the Middle East. We sincerely believe that the vital role of the United Nations continues to be critical to the resolution of the Middle East conflict. The creation of the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), and the great strides that have been taken in the past two years, are a clear indication that we are moving in the right direction. We are convinced that, with the support of the international community and in the spirit of the true partnership that is demonstrated by mutual respect, we shall succeed in our objectives, initiatives and efforts to raise the living standards of our peoples. We have placed our trust in NEPAD to be the vehicle for that shift away from the underdevelopment and conflict of the past by addressing the fundamental root causes of our problems. The ongoing integration of our initiatives and programmes within the African continent will make possible sustainability and true growth in our economies. Together, in unity of purpose, we shall succeed. In that regard, we welcome the establishment by the Secretary-General of the Advisory Panel on International Support for NEPAD, which will, in our view, help us to be more effective in our efforts to promote Africa’s development. Our united effort is also addressing the conflicts that continue to threaten peace, stability and security on the African continent. We realize that, without those elements, our development goals will continue to elude us, especially because, apart from resources that are wasted on arms, our people can be productive and be able to trade among themselves and with the rest of the 22 world only under conditions of peace, stability and security. The establishment of the Peace and Security Council of the African Union is a landmark event in our efforts to manage our conflicts. In particular, allow me to single out for commendation Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his tireless efforts to highlight and address African problems. We look forward to the complete resolution of the dispute in Somalia, and in particular to the resolution of the dispute in the Darfur region of the Sudan. The complex challenges facing the world today lend greater significance and urgency to initiatives for the reform of our Organization. The Kingdom of Swaziland believes that those reforms are essential if the United Nations is to retain the global credibility and authority that are so necessary to its operations. Our aim must be to transform the Organization into a structure that is truly representative of all Members and that is transparent and efficient in its operations, while remaining consistent with the purposes and objectives of our founding Charter. We believe that achieving balanced representation in the principal organs of the United Nations should be a priority. In that regard, we support an increase in both permanent and non-permanent seats in the Security Council. The Security Council in particular requires reform in order to strengthen its legitimacy. Its composition must reflect the plurality and diversity of the membership of the United Nations, to recognize the profound geopolitical changes that have taken place in recent history. However, due to a lack of political will on the part of some Members to increase the membership of the Security Council, progress in the reform agenda remains unattainable. Turning now to the question of development, we believe that the Millennium Declaration marked a turning point in carrying out the mission unanimously entrusted to the United Nations in the area of sustainable development. Indeed, for the first time, heads of State or Government agreed on specific goals and targets in the social, economic and educational fields, up to the year 2015. In our view, the leaders were correct to make the related topics of peace, security, development and poverty eradication priorities to be addressed, because future world stability depends on the ability of national Governments to increase the momentum for economic development and their capacity to improve the delivery of job creation and essential services such as health and education. Developing countries have been facing special difficulties in responding to the challenges brought about by globalization. As a result, many developing countries, especially the least developed ones, have remained marginalized in the globalizing world economy. Consequently, the benefits of globalization are unevenly distributed. In that regard, the Kingdom of Swaziland believes that in order to maximize the benefits of globalization, the process of integration into the world economy should take into account the level of economic development of each country and the capacity of its institutions and enterprises. In particular, specific national development potentials and socio-economic circumstances, as well as differing initial conditions relating to size, resource endowments, economic structure and location, should be considered. It is also necessary to take into account the specific development, financial and trade needs of developing countries, in view of the fact that there can be no one-size-fits-all trade development strategy. I believe that I speak on behalf of many from the developing world when I say that small economies are not receiving fair treatment in global trade. The proposed removal of preferential terms for our agricultural products and the continuation of subsidies for such products from the developed world is bound to deal a fatal blow to many of our weak economies. We request understanding and appreciation of our situation by our developed partners. We are asking for a partnership that will take into account our unique situations as developing economies so that we can participate effectively in the global market. For our part, as small economies, we pledge quality and high standards for our products. Our farmers are more than ready to deliver the best to international markets. It should be noted that agricultural incomes are the cornerstone of development for our rural communities. For our part in the Kingdom of Swaziland, poverty alleviation remains the number-one priority. Sixty-six per cent of our people are living below the internationally recognized poverty line, yet our classification as a lower-middle-income country prevents our access to many of the funds and resources that are available to those in different categories. We will be working with the United Nations to ensure that this situation is corrected. 23 In the meantime, we are focusing our efforts and available resources on programmes that meet the challenges of poverty in a sustainable and equitable manner. Our national development strategy, which is the result of direct consultation with all stakeholders, has incorporated all eight priority United Nations Millennium Development Goals so as to provide us with a blueprint for government action towards achieving the vision of improving the livelihood of our people by 2022. Despite all our best efforts and our limited success in many areas, we are restricted in our capacity to meet our objectives due to a multitude of problems that are affecting us simultaneously and that we cannot overcome on our own. As is the case with all developing countries, we are particularly at risk in times of global economic difficulties and are particularly vulnerable to disease and to the effects of changing weather patterns. Weakening our efforts to meet our development challenges is the threat posed by multiple health hazards, including malaria and tuberculosis, but especially HIV/AIDS. AIDS continues to claim the lives of many of our people. No sector of development has been spared the ravaging impact of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, with enormous strain placed on our financial and human resources as we make the required interventions. We are attacking the enemy on various fronts, with priority on prevention, care, counselling and treatment. Our National Emergency Response Committee has had some success with regard to home- based and community-based care for those already ill as a result of infection. Unfortunately, we are currently experiencing an exodus of qualified nurses, who are being employed in the developed world. The exodus has adversely affected our capacity-building efforts. That exodus, together with other wider impacts of HIV/AIDS, has dealt our economy a heavy blow. The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to make the welfare of children a priority in our development strategy. In that regard, both the Government and the private sector, including non-governmental organizations (NGOs), have responded with zeal and determination to the plight of orphans and other vulnerable children, resulting from the effects of the pandemic. The Government is providing bursaries for such children in order to ensure that their education is not disrupted. The Government and the business community, in partnership with NGOs, are providing school feeding schemes in order to improve their nutritional balance. We are also using our traditional structures to cater for their material and emotional needs; this includes the provision of local reporting structures to prevent the abuse of those children. The chiefdoms also provide fields where communities grow food for orphans and other vulnerable children. Let me take this opportunity to express the most profound gratitude of the entire Swazi nation to the United Nations and to all our development partners for the support we continue to receive as we face that killer disease. The support we have received from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria continues to prop up and sustain our programmes and strategies in our fight against this scourge. Fellow members, we shall be forever grateful to you all. The Kingdom of Swaziland is fully committed to the principles of good governance and the rule of law. The nation has just completed debating the Kingdom’s draft constitution, and the draft will soon be submitted to Parliament for final consideration before the end of this year. For more than 30 years, the Kingdom of Swaziland has been enjoying excellent relations with a nation which, despite an outstanding record in international development assistance and despite fulfilling every requirement for membership in the Organization, is nonetheless excluded from participation in the activities of the United Nations. I am referring here to the issue of the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan, who are denied the right to contribute to the global initiatives undertaken by this world body. The Government and the people of the Republic of China on Taiwan have made enormous advances in economic, social and political terms, and they have shown themselves ready and able to share their experience and advice with all the nations of the world. The Kingdom of Swaziland, therefore, proposes to the Assembly that the time has come to revisit this issue so as to ensure the inclusion of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the activities of the United Nations and its associated agencies. In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to express the deep gratitude of His Majesty the King, the Indlovukazi, the Government and the people of Swaziland to the United Nations and 24 its agencies for the many programmes of assistance undertaken in the Kingdom of Swaziland since our independence. We believe that the United Nations, as the only truly global Organization, remains the only hope for overcoming the many complex challenges facing the world today. Despite the setbacks, and despite the obstacles to achieving our collective aims, there can be no doubt that the world could be a more troubled place without the combined efforts of all of us. The Kingdom of Swaziland, therefore, takes great pride in reaffirming our commitment to the principles and ideals set out in the Charter, and we ask Almighty God to watch over and guide us in the challenging times ahead for our Organization.Allow me at the outset warmly to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session and to assure you and the other members of the Bureau, whom I also congratulate, of the full support of the delegation of Mali as you carry out your mission. I also wish to pay tribute to the dedication of Secretary-General Kofi Annan and to thank him for his tireless efforts in the service of the United Nations. Six days ago, Mali commemorated in its own way the forty-fourth anniversary of its independence. From this high rostrum, the most symbolic of all, I wish to recall the efforts of my country to build, under the leadership of Mr. Amadou Toumani Touré, President of the Republic and Head of State, a democratic, stable and prosperous Mali asserting its place in the concert of nations. For several weeks now, our country and others of the North and West African regions, have been stricken by an unprecedented locust infestation. As President Amadou Toumani Touré stressed in his message to the nation on 22 September, the magnitude and speed of the infestation have surpassed the most pessimistic projections. The catastrophic effects of that insect plague on the upcoming harvest and on our vegetation are a true threat to the livelihood of the millions of men and women thus exposed to famine. The Government of the Republic of Mali is actively working to suppress the scourge, above all through a national mobilization that has brought teams, brigades and village communities to work in the field, and with the support of the international community, and in particular to brotherly African countries. I reiterate here my country’s gratitude to them all. I also wish firmly to say, however, that, faced with the insect plague and in order to ensure the food security of infested countries, including Mali, we have a shared responsibility to launch and strengthen short-, medium- 16 and long-term international mobilization. We must act, act quickly and act effectively. Questions related to international peace and security continue to be a source of concern to us. In the past year we have seen crises and conflicts multiply throughout the world. I would like, in particular, to recall the situation in West Africa and Mali’s initiatives to contribute to the settlement of the crisis in Côte d’Ivoire, whose subregional repercussions are considerable and fraught with consequences for peace and stability in West Africa. In this regard, the so-called Bamako II meeting made it possible to establish the conditions for the success of the Accra III high-level meeting. I forcefully echo the assertion of President Amadou Toumani Touré that Mali will continue to support peace and reconciliation in Côte d’Ivoire: peace for the people of Côte d’Ivoire, and peace for all of the foreigners who live in that brotherly neighbouring country. Here I would mention Mali’s participation in the peacekeeping missions of the United Nations, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in Liberia, Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and Haiti. Furthermore, Mali’s commitment to international peace and security is at the root of our country’s action to make the Sahelo-Saharan area a focal point of development and stability. This was especially evident during the Malian presidency of the Community of Sahelo-Saharan States. Mali is also deeply concerned by the situation in the Middle East: measures to close off Palestinian territories, arbitrary arrests, extrajudiciary executions, the destruction of property, land seizures, lack of respect for resolutions adopted by the international community and the siege imposed upon President Arafat. Those actions do not help to establish true peace in that part of the world. Mali, which has always supported the just cause of the Palestinian people, urgently appeals to the members of the Quartet to restore dialogue between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, with a view to a just, equitable and lasting settlement of a conflict which has gone on too long. International terrorism is today another challenge to international peace and security. We have seen this phenomenon on all continents, making it abundantly clear that terrorism has neither homeland nor religion. That is why the international community must display steadfast political will in combating terrorism by, inter alia, strengthening the available legal arsenal, including mechanisms for cooperation and technical assistance. Beyond this, we must tackle the root causes of the phenomenon, which include poverty, massive human rights violations, intolerance, injustice and impunity from prosecution. The question of small arms and light weapons is also a primary concern for us. Mali has made a significant contribution in this area by developing initiatives at the subregional, regional and international levels. In this regard, Mali is striving to transform the ECOWAS Moratorium on the Importation, Exportation and Manufacture of Small Arms and Light Weapons in West Africa into a convention. We further believe that the international community must now resolutely engage in the establishment of a binding legal instrument on marking, registering and tracing small arms and light weapons. The situation of children in armed conflicts is also a source of concern for my country. We fully support the recommendations contained in the report of the Special Representative to the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict (E/CN.4/2004/70), and call for the effective implementation of Security Council resolution 1539 (2004). Along the same lines, Mali is working within the Human Security Network to keep this question among the priorities of our Organization. In order to effectively prevent and manage these situations of crisis and conflict — that is, to preserve and guarantee international peace and security — the international community must work for an international order that is based on the rule of law, and for a United Nations whose legitimacy is strengthened. Thus, we welcome the establishment of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, and we anxiously await its conclusions. The question of development is, and must remain, a priority issue on the international agenda, and thus we welcome the decision to hold a plenary meeting in 2005 devoted to follow-up of the outcome of the Millennium Summit, and to a comprehensive and coordinated follow-up and implementation of documents from the major conferences and summit meetings organized by the United Nations on economic 17 and social topics. We hope that that meeting will enable us to conduct an objective and candid review of the way in which commitments have been met, including the progress achieved and obstacles remaining in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. Defeating poverty is a major objective for the Government of the Republic of Mali. As part of that endeavour, the adoption in 2002, and the implementation, of a strategic framework, has made it possible to achieve important results in the areas of education, health, rural development and basic infrastructure. I take this opportunity to express Mali’s support for the initiative launched by Presidents Jacques Chirac and Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, which led to the New York Declaration on Action Against Hunger and Poverty adopted on 20 September 2004. On trade negotiations, Mali attaches great importance to the round of trade negotiations under way within the World Trade Organization (WTO): the Doha development round. We hope that those negotiations will lead to an economic system which will enable all countries, especially developing countries, to fully maximize their potential. We hope to see a true breakthrough in agricultural negotiations, which should lead to the elimination of subsidies and other production and export support mechanisms, particularly with respect to cotton. Indeed, cotton is one of the commodities where we, African producer countries, offer true comparative advantages, since production costs are one fifth those in developed countries. At present, however, our countries are seriously harmed by production and export subsidies for cotton. For that reason, we reaffirm our opposition to subsidy policies which undermine free market competition, lead to overproduction and lower prices on the international market and prevent our agriculture from getting off the ground. That is why Mali is also calling for the gradual elimination of all tariff and non-tariff barriers, as well as the implementation of measures on the free movement of people, goods and services. We are pleased with the European Union’s commitment to facilitate the integration of least developed countries within the multilateral trading system, including through the adoption in April 2004 of an action plan for agriculture that includes a proposal for an Africa- Europe partnership on cotton. The AIDS pandemic is progressing at such an alarming rate that, in addition to its health repercussions, it has today become a problem for economic and social development, especially in Africa. That is why we must implement, urgently and in full, the commitments that we undertook in 2001 so that we can mobilize the necessary energy and resources to effectively fight the scourge. Mali has set up a multisectoral programme to fight HIV/AIDS at a cost of $150 million, or 73 billion CFA francs. The implementation of that programme will make it possible to distribute antiretroviral drugs to patients free of charge, as well as to provide necessary impetus to the information and awareness campaign with a view to prevention. Pilot laboratories for screening and counselling will be established throughout the country, and small and medium-sized businesses for social outreach will be set up, thus providing jobs for young people. With regard to the situation of people with disabilities, Mali is pleased with the negotiations that are under way with a view to elaborating a convention to protect their rights and dignity. We are convinced that the adoption of such an instrument would establish a framework for improved social and economic integration for people with disabilities, allowing them to fully participate in the development efforts of their respective societies. I would like to conclude in the same vein as I began — by emphatically reaffirming the faith that Mali has in the United Nations, whose purposes and principles, set out almost 60 years ago, remain deeply meaningful and highly relevant. It is true that recently the Organization’s capacity and credibility have been seriously undermined. It is therefore all the more important that we carry out a thorough reform of the Organization and revitalize its main bodies. Mali welcomes the important progress that has been achieved in the context of the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly. The reorganization of the work of the Main Committees, the strengthening of the role of the Bureau and the improvement in working methods will certainly result in the greater effectiveness of this important body. I would like to pay tribute, Sir, to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for the remarkable work that he accomplished in that respect. 18 Mali shares the common African position that Security Council reform is a necessary — indeed, a priority — task if we are to strengthen the capacities and the credibility of that important body. The Council must be more representative and legitimate. Its composition should reflect the realities of today’s world and be expanded in both categories of membership, with particular account being taken of the representation of Africa. The people of the world have placed their hope in the United Nations, and they expect, in return, greater peace, security, democracy, development and solidarity. As the community of nations, we have the means to achieve those goals, thanks to our collective awareness and the safeguarding of the values we all share: democracy, respect for the rule of law, the primacy of human rights, the preservation of the environment and the protection of future generations from the scourge of war.It gives me great pleasure to congratulate you, Sir, as you ably and wisely guide our deliberations at the fifty-ninth session. Allow me also to take this opportunity to express my delegation’s appreciation to Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia for his successful stewardship of the work of the fifty-eighth session. The world has changed a great deal since our hopes and aspirations were enshrined in the Charter almost 60 years ago. What has not changed, but remains unaltered, is our collective desire to build a safe, tolerant and secure world, anchored in justice and social progress. What has not changed is the very spirit and driving force that brought us together — we, the peoples of the United Nations. Those opening words of the Charter remind us that the United Nations is a creation of the peoples of the world. Those words compel us to recall that our Organization has been entrusted by our peoples with the sacred task of translating their aspirations into reality. They are words that tell us that we are assembled today not only as delegates of our Governments, but also as representatives of our peoples. With those words, the Charter freed the world from the notion that only States matter. With those words, the people were placed at the heart of our United Nations. Today, the technologies and discoveries that make the world smaller and should bring us together are being used to tear us apart. Today, new forms of political, economic and social division directly threaten our people and the values and dreams they hold dear. These threats have the potential to overwhelm the gains of our Organization and to divide our peoples. All these factors have given rise to clamour for decisive reform in the United Nations. We should start with the basic reform of the structures and relationships that define powers and responsibilities. For our Organization, this means pursuing earnest reforms in the Security Council; the General Assembly and its subsidiary bodies; and the Secretariat. But addressing the most basic elements is also the most difficult thing to do. Any planned reform of the United Nations should be endorsed by consensus by all 191 Member States. Any reform of the Security Council should give due consideration to the views of the five permanent members, as they will have the final say in the matter. 15 Any reform should also recognize that a country like Japan deserves to be considered for a seat as a permanent member. We must all put our creative energies to work, spare no effort and ignore no avenue or opportunity in bringing greater peace and progress to our peoples. Religion and religious leaders have a role to play in fostering tolerance and greater understanding among peoples. They bring unique perspectives to the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Inter-faith dialogue between the peoples of different civilizations should also be encouraged. Deep and historic divisions can be healed through a dialogue between peoples of different faiths and civilizations. The Philippines will work with like-minded delegations in support of efforts to broaden such a dialogue. Our peoples’ differences, whether of belief or of culture, should not be a basis for misunderstanding or conflict. But most of all, reform must begin by placing the welfare and interests of the peoples of the world at the forefront our deliberations. In the 15 minutes that it will take me to deliver my remarks, 60 people will have died of tuberculosis. By the time the curtain falls on a Broadway show, 250 persons, mostly women and children, will have been trafficked into forced servitude or prostitution. By the time we wake up tomorrow morning, 3,000 children will have died of malaria and a further 6,000 children will have perished for lack of clean water. Instead of having school books in their hands, over 300,000 children in conflict areas have their fingers on the triggers of automatic rifles. HIV/AIDS kills 3 million people a year; millions of refugees crowd camps. One fifth of the world’s population still live in abject poverty, barely subsisting on less than the price of the newspaper sold around the corner from our hotels. Terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the massive proliferation of small arms directly threaten the people and their livelihood and represent an assault on their dignity. Critical flashpoints, most of which are in my part of the world, have the potential for armed conflict that would certainly place people and their futures at grave risk. As a founding Member of the United Nations and as a current member of the Security Council, the Philippines places its faith in the Organization for the maintenance of international peace and security, the promotion of social progress and better standards of life and the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. People antedate the evolution of statehood. As we place people at the centre of the United Nations, I would like to highlight the need to protect their lives and the importance of ensuring their livelihood and promoting their dignity. We must allow our peoples to live free from fear, to live in a safe and secure world. Terrorism poses a serious threat not only to the lives of our people, but also to the values and ideals that define our societies. Terrorism reduces people to mere pawns in a ruthless game of competing beliefs and ideologies. The rubble in Jakarta has been cleared. Flowers cover the little graves in Beslan. But the enemies of all peoples are still lurking in the shadows, conspiring and plotting, with evil in their hearts and the blood of innocents on their hands. The Philippines condemns all forms of terrorism. No cause or dogma can ever justify its use. Long before 11 September 2001, the Philippines and its people suffered from the scourge of terrorism. We have seen the face of terror and felt its deadly touch. We were among the first in our region to join the international war against terror. The Philippines believes that conflicts should be addressed before terrorism can begin to define or exploit them. This can be done by working together with other nations. President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo believes that a new kind of peace has to be developed for a new kind of war, waged by terrorists. She proposes a new global alliance to alleviate poverty and remove it as a breeding ground for resentment and conflict. With the help of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, violent secessionism has given way to peaceful autonomy in southern Philippines. The potential for terrorism to breed has been drastically reduced. In partnership with Malaysia, we are closer to a negotiated peace with the remaining secessionists, who themselves have renounced terror. With Norway as a facilitator, prospects remain for peace talks with 16 one of the world’s few remaining communist rebel groups. Another important dimension of human security is economic. At the national level, economic security means primarily providing livelihood for the people. In the Philippines, President Arroyo has enshrined that goal in her 10-point programme of action for 2004 to 2010. The programme calls for the creation of 6 million jobs in six years by giving more opportunities to entrepreneurs, tripling the amount of loans to small and medium-size enterprises and developing 1 million to 2 million hectares of land for agribusiness. If we are to maintain economic security, the international community should also make job creation a priority goal in international economic cooperation. The General Assembly should look more closely at innovative tools that will help spur economic growth, particularly in developing countries. Greater attention should be focused on how micro-credit or microfinance — an area where the Philippines has made significant strides — could serve as an instrument to alleviate the conditions of the poorest of the poor. Creative ways to solve the lingering debt issue and the spiralling cost of energy should also be considered. We need to ease the burden of debt servicing and to channel those meagre resources to where they are needed most. Each day, developing countries pay the rich nations $717 million in debt service. Every baby born in the developing world already owes $482 at birth. Every year, sub-Saharan Africa pays $10 billion in debt service — four times as much money as the countries in the region spend on health care and education. The wise mobilization of domestic resources, such as remittances for development, should also be carefully studied. Remittances by migrants — much greater than the total amount of overseas development assistance — alleviate the poverty of the family members remaining in their country of origin. Economic security prospers when the playing field is level for both developed and developing countries. Levelling the economic playing field ensures that the fruits of globalization will benefit the people in terms of better opportunities, more jobs and improved livelihood. International trade, investment and development are crucial tools in raising the people’s standard of living. But the people of poor countries continue to face persistent barriers to their products from the developing world. Those barriers exist despite the strictures of the international trading system, emphasizing the need for an open, rule-based multilateral trading system. Economic crises in developing countries result in immediate threats to human security. When people do not know where their next meal will come from or when their crops will fail, human security is compromised. In an interlinked global economy, crises spread rapidly. The prevention and mitigation of such crises in developing countries also enhances human security in developed countries. A World Bank study shows, for instance, that the total elimination of agricultural subsidies in rich countries would increase rural income in low- and medium-income countries by about $60 billion a year. Needless to say, international trade policy needs to be fair, not only to farmers of the developed world, but also to their counterparts in the developing countries. As a start, a substantial reduction in agricultural subsidies for farmers in rich countries would go a long way towards helping their fellow agricultural workers beyond their borders. There is also a need for developed countries to implement their commitments to allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross national product for official development assistance. Again, official development assistance is an instrument to help people help themselves — a social responsibility that is more pronounced now, in an era of increasing globalization. The inexorable pace of globalization fuels new phenomena and creates new challenges to human security. The fluidity of capital, technology, culture and even people should be acknowledged as inherent to globalization and should be harnessed for the good of the people. Democracy and freedom — central elements to ensuring the rights and dignity of the people — should be encouraged and promoted, particularly in countries that are in transition or recovering from conflict. It is in that spirit that the Philippines supports the call for the establishment of a democracy fund. The Philippines is prepared to provide technical support and training in the areas of governance, the administration of justice, electoral processes and similar subjects, with third-party support. We will share our knowledge — a result of our own experience as Asia’s first democracy — since we have had to struggle to regain and preserve that very same democracy. 17 The world should continue to support the people of Iraq in their valiant effort to create a democratic, free, pluralistic and secure nation. The Philippines stands ready to assist in implementing Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) on Iraq, which was unanimously adopted during our presidency of the Council last June. The United Nations has a significant role to play in Iraq in the political process leading to the elections scheduled for January next year, and it deserves the full support of the international community in its efforts to build a stable and peaceful Iraq. Conflict has devastating effects on the safety and security of people. The deliberate targeting of innocent civilians as victims is increasingly being used as a weapon of war and as a tool of terrorists. The movement of people across borders reinforces the interdependence of countries, facilitates the transfer of skills and knowledge and stimulates economic growth and development. In order to protect the security of migrants, we must give them the legal status that will enable them to gain access to basic services and will ensure the protection of fundamental rights. The International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families entered into force on 1 July 2003. We take this opportunity to call on all our friends to make every effort to accede to the Convention. The interdependence and interlinkages among the peoples of the world require that human security should top the agendas of local, national, regional and global governance. Human security addresses the challenges of the twenty-first century, responds to our peoples’ aspirations as enshrined in our Charter and reinvigorates the United Nations in the process. Finally, in a world where people are sometimes reduced to images on a screen and their suffering distilled into pixels and fonts, perhaps we should again be reminded that, when we gave life to the United Nations almost 60 years ago, we ushered in a new era in the human saga, embarking on our historic journey with the words: “We the peoples of the United Nations ...”.Today our continent is experiencing a time of great opportunity, yet it is also beset by serious threats, including a falling standard of living for the masses, radical adjustment measures, the globalization of financial capital and a lack of access to markets in developed countries - all of which have not contributed to generating sustained economic growth, and even less to reducing poverty and inequality. The great challenge before us is to redouble our efforts daily to eradicate this cancer by strengthening public institutions and forging a new social ethic, as well as a new international order with multilateral bodies that truly contribute to peace throughout the world, human development and the sharp reduction of poverty, social inequalities and the exploitation of man by man and nation by nation. The United Nations, this noble institution, must not lose sight of its historic memory, its raison díÍtre and the objectives that led to its creation, if its efforts currently under way are to result in healthy attitude changes and a greater political capacity to institute regulatory frameworks that can put a stop to economic Darwinism and conflicts throughout the world. Today, more than ever, the possibility of building a more just world, free from such painful contradictions, depends upon the inclusion of the less developed countries in the globalized economy and the political will to overcome pure market forces. The industrialization of the United States, Germany and Japan in the nineteenth century could be described in similar terms, as could their emergence from their relative backwardness compared with Great Britain, the pioneer nation of that time. The failure throughout almost all of Latin America to overcome its backwardness, poverty and dependency is frequently due to selfishness and historic impediments to advantageous connections between our national economies and the worldwide market. If this seems to be a recurrent condition, then we should constantly keep in mind the message of the Consensus of Brazil: we must govern globalization if we are to turn it into a source of opportunity for all, if globalization is not to be what it has become ó a force synonymous with marginalization, exclusion or conquest, dependent on markets and cheap labour, which leads to a form of semi-slavery in many countries. I wish to propose to the General Assembly joint action that can be taken in four areas. First, social investment throughout the continent must reach levels that will make it possible to attain the Millennium Development Goals. To that end, the poorest countries, which clearly cannot obtain such levels of investment, could have recourse to a counterpart fund for social equity with soft financing coming from international organizations and unilateral contributions. Secondly, we realize that not everything can be solved with money. Money, when it is misused, weakens and corrupts. Accordingly, we must also commit ourselves to carrying out the necessary institutional reforms to ensure the proper formulation, implementation and assessment of social policies. And we must be ready to ensure that access to the aforementioned funds will lead to wide-reaching innovations in the management of public administration, demonstrable by means of indices on efficiency and transparency. Thirdly, international organizations must increasingly realize that economic and social reform must flow from the experience and wisdom of those countries themselves, with their own formulas that are in keeping with their cultural standards and that involve all the representatives of civil society. Fourthly, with growing levels of poverty it is impossible to meet the burden of external debt servicing. There must be a new, realistic policy that will put forward rational terms on future payment of debt, terms that will make it possible to lay the basis for sustained and equitable development, terms which allow us to meet our commitments without pushing our 19 people into irreversible poverty. It is important to place the needs of the poor and dispossessed over the repayment of the debt. That is why we must imaginatively and skilfully devise alternative financing mechanisms for the fight against hunger and extreme poverty. That task requires greater intellectual resources and technical expertise and a new and fair financial architecture, not the accumulation of wealth, worship of the market or the promotion of globalization that does not allow the just distribution of the wealth produced by all of us throughout the world. We need a new financial architecture that enables us to reduce poverty and to work for the stability of the worldís emerging democracies. One year ago, my Government inherited a situation characterized by economic stagnation, recession and spreading poverty and by weak and unreliable public institutions, resulting in timid social policies that could hardly tackle the Millennium Development Goals. Two major challenges face my country. First, the indigenous population - which in Paraguay is not large, totalling no more than 100,000 - lacks access to its most vital needs and faces the disintegration of much of its natural lands owing to the historical rule of indolent landowners, and most recently to a type of agrarian modernization that was insensitive to human dignity. Secondly, the unconscionable face of extreme poverty in my country is that of the peasants. Today, two out of three Paraguayans continue to belong to that social sector. Likewise, one of the most significant causes of that critical national problem is the very unjust distribution of land that has existed for many years in Paraguay. That is not only an urgent and very shocking social problem, but also a political and ethical problem that is manifested in a repeated and increasingly grave struggle for land. In the light of that situation, we propose a State with social, fiscal and environmental responsibility: social responsibility in the sense of guaranteeing health, education and basic services and avoiding concentration of profit and wealth; fiscal responsibility to avoid a deficit and chronic indebtedness, which ultimately punish social investment; and environmental responsibility to preserve natureís reproductive capacity and to ensure for future generations the right to enjoy resources not created by man. We also propose the implementation of a national anti-poverty strategy that will channel the domestic and external resources necessary to meet the Millennium Development Goals. The national Government has defined as a top budget priority an increase in social spending to resolutely address the problems of poverty, destitution and inequality, with the objective of reaching 40 per cent of the central administrationís total public spending for next year, 2005. For development, cooperation is not enough; there must also be access to markets on preferential terms, liberalization of the agricultural product markets and special treatment for the landlocked least developed countries, such as Paraguay, punished by history and geopolitics, which make our foreign trade more expensive and significantly reduce our competitiveness. There needs to be a compensatory framework to place my country, Paraguay, on an equal footing with other nations in terms of international trade. In the international context, we join in the appeal for a more just and humanized international order in which the least developed are not always condemned to discrimination, indifference and backwardness. With that objective, we must move towards an inclusive multilateralism that will offer equality, rationality and justice in international relations. Similarly ó and in keeping with Paraguayís position on Taiwan in the United Nations ó we once more reaffirm our conviction that the brotherly Republic of China, Taiwan, should become a full- fledged Member of the Organization, in accordance with the principle of universality and with norms of international law. Today we have heard more of the same things we hear every year in the Assembly. But we hope that this time we can return to our countries and share with our peoples the news that finally, in New York, the worldís leaders have taken important steps forward in alleviating - even if just a little - the pain, sorrow and hopelessness of the millions of human beings who live on Earth. I am confident that God will give us the wisdom and the strength necessary to lead our countries on the path of freedom, peace, development and justice.Allow me at the outset to convey the greetings and best wishes of the people of my country to Member States and their people, and to the Secretary-General. War, oppression, crime, hatred and suffering plague hundreds of millions of men and women all over the world today. In pursuit of the ideals of peace, democracy and happiness, the United Nations is the united conscience of humankind. In order to achieve the goals of the Millennium Declaration, our Organization must be strengthened structurally, economically and spiritually. Serbia and Montenegro therefore supports both the initiatives for the enlargement of the Security Council, that based on the need for equal representation of all continents, and that which concedes a special role for the most developed countries, without whose support the United Nations would be unable to fulfill its noble goals. The fight against global terrorism in all its manifestations, such as anti-Semitism and anti- Islamism, is our primary responsibility today. Those who perpetrated, masterminded and bankrolled terrorist atrocities in New York, Washington, Moscow, Beslan, Jerusalem, Madrid, Istanbul and other places have not only declared war against all nations, but also against God himself, who is the same God for all people. In the fight against terrorism, force is unavoidable, but prevention is what we need most. 52 Politicians, international religious and spiritual leaders and the media must constantly emphasize that the killing of children and of innocent civilians are crimes that the terrorists are perpetrating against their own religions and nations and that God will neither forgive them nor reward them with paradise for such crimes. Multilateralism is the only means to prevent the catastrophe of the clash between faiths and civilizations. At the same time, terrorism must be condemned with equal resolve by everyone. There can be no acceptable terrorists, nor should terrorists be proclaimed as `freedom fighters’ anywhere. Serbia and Montenegro is a small country that has been confronted with most of the world’s current problems and misfortunes. The recent wars that saw the break-up of Yugoslavia - one of the founding members of the United Nations - have had immense and painful consequences: unemployment; poverty; the tragic plight of some 600,000 refugees; hopelessness among young people, which breeds drug dependence; a rising suicide rate; and the desperate position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The reality of Kosovo and Metohija today is both dramatic and grim. Over the past five years, the international administration and dominance of the Albanian majority of this Serbian province have led to the killing or abduction of more than 2,500 Serbs, including many children, and to the destruction of 1,500-year-old churches and monasteries and approximately 40,000 homes. As a result of terrorism and massive violations of basic human rights, nearly 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. The hopes of suffering victims are directed towards the United Nations, particularly its bodies and specialized agencies. I take this opportunity to express my most profound gratitude to the Secretary-General and to the Director-General of UNESCO for the decision to convene, in November, an international donor conference aimed at funding the reconstruction of destroyed churches and monasteries in Kosovo. We are also grateful for the principled position that all homes must be rebuilt, that conditions must be created for the return of all of those who have been expelled and that the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija must be guaranteed the right to life and to freedom of movement and all civil, national and religious freedoms. The spirit of a united Europe and a united world lives in the hearts of Serbs and Montenegrins. While we respect the existing State borders that we share with our neighbours, we wish to erase them in everyday life and to build a common European future based on dialogue, reconciliation and equality among all nations. We are fully confident that, with the strong support of the United Nations, we will attain that goal. But the insistence by some on the creation of a sovereign State of Kosovo amounts to a call for the break-up of the sovereign State of Serbia and Montenegro. Such an objective breeds new hatred and misery and is contrary to the basic tenets of international law and to the Charter of the United Nations. We will not agree to the violation of the rights of our State and its citizens. By applying consistent standards in addressing all crimes, the United Nations will assist the efforts of the democratic Government in Serbia and Montenegro to fulfill our obligations to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which is something we must do. The nation is innocent; responsibility rests on the individual, and none of those who have been indicted for war crimes has the right to hold a nation hostage. All of us on this planet are brothers and sisters. Gens una sumus: we are all one family. Therefore, the primary obligation of any majority, whether religious, racial or ethnic, is to fully protect the rights of minorities. I can assure the Assembly that my Government is unreservedly committed to that principle.Fifty-nine years ago the United Nations was established by nations determined to work collectively to find alternatives to conflict as a means of resolving disputes and to create a stable, secure and more just and prosperous world. Devastated and exhausted by world war for the second time within 25 years, nations put their faith in multilateralism and in this body in order to avoid future wars. The name 'United Nations' evoked the unity of humankind, in which our shared needs and common humanity were more important than our differences. It is obvious as we consider the world today that we have achieved that vision only in part. Yes, world wars have been avoided. International covenants have set out universally agreed human rights standards against which the performance of governments can be measured. International law has been developed and strengthened. As Kofi Annan emphasized this morning (see ), putting the rule of law into effect at home and internationally is essential to achieving a fair, just and civilized world. Cooperation has achieved advances in meeting social, economic and environmental needs. But much more remains to be done. War, more often within than across the boundaries of States, has taken the lives of tens of millions of people since 1945, most of them civilians. Weapons of mass destruction have accumulated and access to them has spread to more countries. New diseases such as HIV/AIDS have emerged, with devastating consequences. The gap between rich and poor countries has widened, not diminished. This year the Secretary-General's High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change will put forward proposals for reforming and strengthening the United Nations, aimed at ensuring its relevance and effectiveness in addressing these issues. It is critical that we seize this unique opportunity to institute positive reforms and not squander it by adopting narrow, self-interested and inflexible responses. Nor will a lowest-common-denominator approach achieve what we all require. Reform is long overdue. The composition of the Security Council cannot go on reflecting the world as it was in 1945. An expanded Security Council and reform of outmoded electoral groupings is necessary for the Council to be representative of the international community as it is today. Those changes will strengthen the Councilís mandate and enhance its credibility as the pre-eminent organ of the United Nations. No solution, of course, will satisfy the viewpoint of every Member nation. A willingness to compromise on a package of proposals will be essential. But clearly, enhancing the representation of areas such as Asia, Latin America and Africa must be an objective, and account must be taken of the significant contributions to the United Nations of nations such as Japan. While the High-Level Panel will focus on reform of the United Nations and security considerations, development goals to create a fairer world and promote economic and social progress in the developing world are further vital considerations for the United Nations in the year ahead. For hundreds of millions of people, starvation, disease and poverty are more immediate threats than the concerns others of us have about terrorism and security. We are now at a turning point in achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Improving the quality and quantity of development assistance is crucial. However, real and lasting progress to meet development challenges is also dependent on building a fairer, more open and equitable global trading system. Countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) spend $360 billion each year on subsidizing agricultural 47 production in a way that excludes opportunities for the developing world to export - not only to OECD countries, but to third markets as well. That sum dwarfs the amount the OECD countries provide in development assistance. New Zealand welcomes the progress made at the World Trade Organization General Council meeting in Geneva in July, which put the Doha Development Agenda back on track. Agriculture is at the heart of the round; the European Union and United States agreement to eliminate all agricultural export subsidies is particularly welcome. The United Nations must also adapt itself to the changing nature of security and humanitarian concerns. The concept of national sovereignty being paramount and standing in the way of international intervention in local conflicts cannot be sustained. As the Secretary- General has challenged us, 'if humanitarian intervention is, indeed, an unacceptable assault on sovereignty, how should we respond to a Rwanda, to a Srebrenica - to gross and systematic violations of human rights that offend every precept of our common humanity?' (A/54/2000, para. 217) The International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty concluded two and a half years ago that sovereign States have the responsibility to protect their own citizens from avoidable catastrophe: from mass murder and rape, from starvation. When they are unwilling or unable to do so, that responsibility must be borne by the broader community of nations. We are today witnessing a humanitarian and human rights catastrophe in Darfur. The World Health Organization reports that up to 10,000 people a month are dying or being killed. The very young and the elderly are most vulnerable. A few days ago, by its resolution 1564 (2004), the Security Council resolved to support an enlarged African Union monitoring mission, demanded that all parties cease all violence and human rights violations and threatened further steps against the Government of the Sudan if it fails to disarm the militias and protect civilians. Within the General Assembly, countries must work together in a united and determined way to enforce those provisions and prevent the tragedy that is unfolding. History will not forgive those who stand in the way of protecting 1.5 million refugees in that region and allowing them to return safely to their homes. It is also important that those responsible for the mass murders and the abuse of human rights there be held to account for their actions. There must be no impunity for such crimes. That is true in Darfur, and is also true of those responsible for the destruction of East Timor and the murder of people there in 1999. The ad hoc tribunals in Indonesia have failed to bring to justice those who are responsible. That failure can only encourage such people to commit further atrocities, believing that they will never be held responsible for their actions. New Zealand welcomes the establishment of the International Criminal Court and the role that it will now play in dealing with genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. It urges all countries which have not yet done so to accede to the convention establishing that body and to recognize its jurisdiction. In the area of conflict resolution, we face today two major challenges: in Afghanistan and in Iraq. New Zealand has strongly supported efforts to bring security and stability to Afghanistan. As a small country we have contributed more than NZ$80 million in military and development assistance. We welcome progress towards presidential elections next month and the essential democratic mandate that they will provide to the Government. Strong international support, however, will be necessary to meet the challenges which lie ahead. That includes ending the production and trading of drugs. Afghanistan provides about 75 per cent of the world trade in opiates. The money derived funds warlords and organized crime and undermines the ability of the legitimate Government to function. New Zealand deplores the violence in Iraq, which continues to harm or take the lives of so many people, and the circumstances which have contributed to that violence. We call on those responsible for taking the lives of innocent people to end their violence. They now have access to a political process which they should use to promote their views and interests. A credible election process is vital to creating an Iraqi Government which has a popular mandate. The United Nations has a key role to play in that process, but adequate security and a safe environment are first necessary for that to occur. New Zealand will continue 48 to support the interim Iraqi authority and the United Nations in their efforts to restore security, peace and prosperity to the Iraqi people, who have suffered for so long. In Iraq and elsewhere, close attention also needs to be given to the protection of United Nations staff. The General Assembly this year will consider an integrated security strategy for the United Nations, which will incorporate a system-wide review of the United Nations security apparatus, accountability and resources. The Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel must be strengthened and supported by all States Members of the United Nations. New Zealand condemns all acts of terrorism and will continue to contribute strongly to the campaign against terrorism. In particular, we condemn the inhumanity of terrorists in Beslan who sacrificed children as pawns in pursuit of their political objectives. However, attempts to suppress terrorism by force will not by themselves be enough unless we also address the causes which drive people to support, finance or be recruited into terrorism. In that regard, no action will be more important to the undermining of terrorism today than finding a just and sustainable solution to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian people. The international community must work with those countries to overcome the failure of leadership, the lack of resolve and the cycle of violence and retaliation which stand in the way of solving that conflict. Finally, in the Pacific region, New Zealand's own neighbourhood, we can celebrate the progress which has been made in Bougainville and in the Solomon Islands in ending conflict and re-establishing the rule of law. In both cases, a concerted regional response with the support of the United Nations has been effective. In Bougainville, that response created peace from a situation where a 10-year civil war had resulted in widespread devastation and the loss of thousands of lives. In the Solomon Islands, the intervention of the Regional Assistance Mission has restored the rule of law by its elected Government in place of the anarchy created by armed militias. More than 3,500 weapons have been collected and destroyed, social services and a credible budgetary progress restored and militiamen and corrupt elements from the police and Government arrested and charged. Much however, remains to be done to meet the wide-ranging challenges which confront the Pacific region, including environmental threats, ethnic conflict, poor law enforcement and governance and the threat of disease. Regional solutions are being applied by the Pacific Islands Forum through greater collaboration and integration in addressing problems. International cooperation through processes such as the 10-year Review of the Barbados Programme of Action set to take place in Mauritius next year will also help. In conclusion, 59 years from the end of the Second World War and the establishment of the United Nations, the world continues to face major challenges to its security and well-being. The opportunity exists this year for us to consider and improve the ways by which the Assembly can address the problems faced by humanity and make a difference. Success or failure to do so will be the collective responsibility of all of us.I am pleased to convey my congratulations to the President elected to the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I likewise take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the great efforts he has been exerting to restructure and reform the United Nations, to improve its methods of work and revitalize its role in all fields in order to face the demands and challenges of the twenty-first century. Reform and restructuring of the United Nations system have become imperatives, since this world Organization remains the ideal mechanism to address the urgent problems of the world, by way of combating poverty and hunger, ensuring the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, achieving disarmament and resolving armed conflicts, combating diseases that take the lives of millions, such as AIDS and malaria. The United Nations has organized numerous international conferences and summits in the last 10 years, such as the Millennium Summit, the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg and the International Conference on Financing for 50 Development in Monterrey to address those multilateral problems. The international community may not have been able to achieve enough progress in addressing some of these issues, but this should not prevent us from redoubling our efforts to implement the international treaties, resolutions and programmes of action of such United Nations conferences. This must be done in order to ensure respect for the purposes and principles of the Charter, international law, the central role of the United Nations and its primacy in preserving international peace and security and in the strengthening of international cooperation in the economic, social and cultural spheres. Terrorism is one of the major challenges the United Nations faces in this millennium. Its negative effects are extremely serious and touch upon all States without exception, although to varying degrees. Terrorist attacks such as those of 11 September 2001, the attacks against the brotherly kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the events in Jakarta and Beslan emphasize the fact that this phenomenon affects us all. Its targets are all peoples of the world, not any one State in particular. We must, therefore, cooperate fully and collectively in addressing the roots of terrorism and not simply deal with its tragic effects. Kuwait has endorsed all of the United Nations resolutions to combat terrorism. Terrorism, however, is not related to any one ethnic group, culture or religion. It is an international phenomenon that must be addressed by the United Nations, as the ideal framework for diagnosing its causes and arriving at the necessary solutions needed to contain it. A year and a half after the fall of Saddam Husseinís dictatorship, the situation in Iraq continues to be a delicate one of uncertainty and insecurity, due to terrorist acts carried out by armed groups and the remnants of the old regime. This is hampering the efforts of the interim Iraqi Government, which is endeavouring to rebuild what the old regime destroyed through its policy of aggression. Convinced as we are that security and stability in Iraq mean security for the region as a whole, Kuwait supports the efforts of the Iraqis to rebuild their country in these difficult times, so that Iraq may resume its positive international and regional roles. We are sure that the Iraqi people will be able to do this. In that regard, we support Security Council resolution 1546 (2004), which supports the effort that everyone wishes to see, namely, the preservation of Iraqís sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity. Kuwait supports the interim Government of Iraq, which is expressing the will of the Iraqi people to build a tolerant Iraq that cares about peace, based upon democracy, the building of constitutional institutions and respect for and pursuit of its internal political process, which would be embodied in the establishment of the Iraqi National Congress that would build such institutions, formulate a new constitution, and conduct new and free elections. Kuwait aspires to strong brotherly relations with the new, free Iraq, based on mutual respect, good neighbourliness, respect for bilateral agreements and resolutions under international law. We welcome, likewise, the creation of a tribunal for former military officers responsible for crimes against the Iraqi people and the people of Kuwait committed during the invasion of Kuwait, as well as for the killing of Kuwaiti prisoners of war and third- country persons. We express our appreciation to the United Nations and international and regional organizations ó such as the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the League of Arab States and the Gulf Cooperation Council ó for their support and their condemnation of the old regime, which killed prisoners of war and concealed that crime for more than a decade in flagrant violation of international humanitarian law. We also thank the interim Government, which is seeking to investigate what has happened to those prisoners of war. We are following with great concern the tragic situation faced by the Palestinian people in the occupied Arab territories as a result of Israeli policies and practices that contravene international and humanitarian law. We reaffirm our support to the struggle of the Palestinian people and their legitimate claim to recover their political rights. We therefore call upon Israel to respect Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), and 1515 (2003), the principle of land for peace, the road map and the dismantling of the racial separation wall. That is part of our integral vision for resolving the situation in the Middle East, which must be based on mutual respect and cooperation between all parties. To ensure stability in the Middle East, we must also work to eradicate weapons of mass destruction, 51 and all parties need to pursue the path of understanding and dialogue to implement the noble principles of the Charter of the United Nations governing inter-State relations and relations among the peoples of the world. We reiterate, in that regard, that the dispute between the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran concerning the three islands that belong to the Emirates should be resolved by peaceful means. We urge the two parties to resolve that dispute as rapidly as possible. Regarding Darfur, we are all concerned about the humanitarian tragedy there. We believe that the Sudan is striving to find a reasonable solution to that humanitarian dilemma. Kuwait is pursuing international and regional efforts to achieve peace and security in both Afghanistan and Somalia, which for many years have suffered from a lack of authority and the deterioration of their economic and political situation owing to the conflicts between various local forces and factions. We support the good offices of the United Nations and regional organizations that have made progress possible at the political level. We hope that those efforts will continue so that national reconciliation in those brotherly nations can be achieved. The information revolution and the vast technological progress in the areas of trade and communications have brought about interdependence. The world has become a little village, every corner of which can now be reached. Many States, and developing countries in particular, have therefore undergone fundamental changes in their economic framework in order to take advantage of the phenomenon of economic globablization and ensure progress and development for their peoples. Despite the benefits of those policies, such as the liberalization of international trade and the lowering of tariff barriers, many countries, especially the least developed among them, are suffering from marginalization and many aggravated social problems, such as poverty, hunger and the spread of diseases resulting from the deterioration of their economies. For that reason, we call upon the international financial institutions, and the World Trade Organization in particular, to give special attention to the developing countries and to consider providing financial support to improve their economic and social situations. We call upon the developed countries to increase their development assistance, to open access to their markets, and to reduce the debt burden of the developing countries so that they are able to strengthen their economic infrastructure. Kuwait continues to support development projects in many developing countries through regional and international institutions and organizations, as well as through the Kuwaiti Fund for Arab Economic Development, which we had the honour of establishing over four decades ago and through which we have provided more than $11 billion to over 100 countries. At the Millennium Summit our leaders laid out the paths to be followed and goals to be attained. Let us work together to achieve a better future for all peoples.I wish to express our satisfaction at seeing Mr. Ping preside over this fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly and we wish him a successful presidency. 24 Ever since the signing of the Charter of San Francisco, and before that during the time of the League of Nations, Chile has been firmly committed to the international community, to multilateral cooperation and to the best values of peace, security, development and human rights which this Organization represents. Chile has been an active participant in the international system because we believe that governance at the global level is the logical extension of the institutional order that each State has achieved and can demonstrate in this global forum. While in the last century our main task was to establish rules of coexistence and conduct for the international community, today, faced with the challenges of the twenty-first century, that task, in our opinion, has become more urgent and ineluctable. What we have before us is a panorama of positive opportunities, on the one hand, and of complex threats, on the other. For countries such as ours, integration into the global community creates opportunities which a closed society would preclude. We see integration into the global community as providing possibilities for growth and for creating space for our efforts, and we feel that this is the inescapable destiny of all of us. Countries need freedom, peace, security and respect for international law; based on scrupulous respect for treaties, we need to work towards the building of a shared global order. Stability can be achieved only through governance under which all interests are represented. Thus, voices are being raised in various countries in order to state the obvious: no one can shape the world that is emerging except through agreements and negotiations. The complexity of the world emerging before our eyes is too great to be handled in a centralized or unipolar manner. Of course, little will be achieved if, at the same time, each country does not put its own house in order. Without justice, solidarity and respect for human rights, there can be no stable or genuinely beneficial governance in our own societies in the medium term. I therefore believe that it is the responsibility of each of our societies to apply the principles of the United Nations and to make them realities. We have an ethical duty to be efficient and effective in the attainment of those goals and ideals. It is clear, however, that globalization also includes negative aspects that can affect us all. Today, we are afflicted by such public evils as terrorism and organized crime; illicit trafficking in persons, arms and drugs; and the money-laundering associated with those activities. Nothing is more counter to our principles than terrorism, a virtual dark force of globalization. Accordingly, here in the United Nations, Chile has contributed through its efforts in chairing both the Al Qaeda/Taliban Security Council sanctions Committee and the Counter-Terrorism Committee, key instruments of the international community for waging this combat. Globalization also has negative spill-over effects on the environment and exacerbates the marginalization of millions of people in societies or even continents who are unable to achieve integration into the global economy and global society. Faced with that reality of light and shadow, countries like Chile have a stake in helping to improve the positive aspects of globalization and to eliminate its negative aspects. But how do we turn those aims into reality? In our view, the best way to guide the agenda of globalization is through multilateralism. It is in the strengthening of multilateralism that each country has a stake and a national task to fulfil. As a non-permanent member of the Security Council, Chile has assumed its responsibility to the global community and has sought to act consistently with our values and convictions. Last year, with regard to Iraq, we said that only the United Nations could give the necessary legitimacy for the use of force and for addressing in an effective and unified manner the threats to peace arising from that country. For that reason, and in order to be consistent with our commitment to multilateralism, we said yes to the United Nations when the Security Council requested the presence of a multinational interim force in Haiti. We reacted in solidarity by dispatching to Haiti, in less than 72 hours, a military force and humanitarian assistance. We have shown that our region is capable of assuming the responsibilities required to ensure international peace and security. Not since the period of our national independence have forces from different Latin American countries acted collectively and independently of the great Powers in a mission to maintain peace in one of our countries. Today in Haiti, 25 the troops of a number of Latin American countries, supplemented by the joint Spanish/Moroccan force, are under the command of a Brazilian general and the representative of the Secretary-General is a Chilean. If we wish to strengthen multilateralism, reform of the United Nations is becoming increasingly necessary. Its ideals and founding purposes remain valid, but, as a number of speakers have noted here, the power structure upon which the Organization was built at its inception corresponds to a world that is very different from todayís world. Not only do we need to expand the Security Council to make it more democratic; comprehensive reform of the Organization is also needed. In addition, the United Nations needs specialization, not a proliferation of similar institutions. It needs greater accountability and a more transparent system of recruitment. It needs to derive the maximum benefit from every last cent that it spends. Many of our States are making those or similar changes in their own public systems. The United Nations can be better than we can in that area. It is a challenge for the Organization and for each of our States. I had the opportunity to exchange ideas with some members of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. That is why I am convinced that the Panel will offer to the Secretary-General recommendations aimed at strengthening two key areas: first, generate a political commitment that reaffirms the values of the Charter of the United Nations; and, secondly, strengthen the system so that it can face the challenges and opportunities of a world that is more global than it was 60 years ago. The world requires a larger and better United Nations. We have unacceptable humanitarian crises, such as that in Darfur, Sudan; a steady deterioration in the outlook for peace in the Middle East; and terrorist attacks, such as those in Beslan, Russia, and in front of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia. In the Security Council, Chile supported the transfer of national sovereignty to the people of Iraq, and we hope to see the elections scheduled for next January. In the case of Afghanistan, United Nations electoral assistance has been essential in the preparations for the elections scheduled for the beginning of October. The world to which we aspire will be better and reflect greater solidarity with the effective participation of citizens. In that spirit, we will host in Chile next year the Third Ministerial Conference of the Community of Democracies. Likewise, we are convinced that globalization will be better only if civil society is recognized as one of its principal actors. That consideration has been a decisive factor in the Action against Hunger and Poverty, which we ó together with the leaders of Brazil, France and Spain and the Secretary-General ó have promoted to effectively contribute to the attainment of the Millennium Goals. Yesterday's meeting presented us with a great challenge: have specific answers within 12 months, before the next General Assembly session. Some of the actions proposed depend on governmental decisions; others are the responsibility of multilateral organizations and civil society ó particularly non- governmental organizations, the business community, trade unions and universities. We say clearly: it is time to recognize that, in practical terms, the exclusive monopoly of States or Governments in the international sphere has ended; everyone is called upon to participate. The question is whether reform is possible. Why would the powerful give up some of their power? Our modest experience has shown us that one can negotiate free trade, for example, with the worldís most industrialized countries and reach agreements beneficial to both sides. Today, trade agreements cover two thirds of our exports, more than half of which are already free from tariffs. That has not been a simple matter; it requires time, preparation and patience. And why not say this? It involves a degree of conflict with the more developed countries. Trade agreements, in and of themselves, do not provide solutions for a set of issues that can be resolved only at the multilateral level. That is why we need to successfully conclude the Doha round, because there, decisive issues are at stake that we have not been able to resolve through bilateral negotiation. There we must resolve the issue of anti- dumping, the situation of subsidized agricultural and textile products, complex issues such as those related to intellectual property, and the question of how to deal with pandemics by using generic or low-cost drugs. Those issues are multilateral in nature. We must therefore deal with them multilaterally, and in doing so 26 we must be strong - we, the countries that understand that we are going to define more just trade rules. It is in that area that common sense is of much more help than dogmatism. One cannot ask others to give up their fundamental interests, but neither can anyone hope complacently for unfair results. That is why integration into the global society is a stairway with many steps. What is important is not to lose a sense of progress ó progress towards trade that is free, but fair; towards capital flows that are free, not predatory; towards cultural expansion, not destruction of what is local: our roots, what we are, our identities; towards an exchange of ideas, not lockstep thinking ó in short, towards pluralism, so that we all can be better. I have tried to share with the Assembly the vision and the responsibilities of a country of the South ó an open country that is interdependent with the rest of the world. Our modest experience has shown us that it is imperative to strengthen multilateralism as the only approach with the legitimacy necessary to ensure inclusive globalization that reflects solidarity - as has been said here, globalization with a human face. In conclusion, todayís world requires a larger, not a smaller, United Nations and more, not less, multilateralism. Our experience tells us that we can make a reality of our shared dream - the dream that was dreamt 60 years ago in San Francisco, but that now obliges us to meet the challenges of the twenty- first century that is beginning.On behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, I extend my sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your well-deserved election to the prestigious presidency of the General Assembly at this session. I assure you of my entire delegation’s unwavering support for you in your noble work. I also pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte, for his excellent guidance of the work of the Assembly at the fifty-eighth session. I also take this opportunity once again to congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan on his ongoing dedication and courage in discharging his responsibilities. I thank him for his ever-growing and resolute support for the cause of peace and security throughout the world and in my country, Burundi, in particular. When the Security Council adopted resolution 1545 (2004) authorizing the deployment of the United Nations Operation in Burundi, the United Nations made a real contribution to the peace process in my country, which two months later is now drawing towards the final phase of that process. The signing of the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation Agreement for Burundi on 28 August 2000 was a decisive step forward in the peace process in my country, which since 1993 had been devastated by the longest crisis in its history, even jeopardizing the very existence of the nation. The Agreement ushered in a new era of calm and a gradual return to peace with the conclusion of ceasefire agreements with the armed political movements, especially since the signing on 16 November 2003 of a comprehensive ceasefire agreement with the main rebel movement Conseil national pour la défense de la démocratie- Forces nationales pour la défense de la démocratie. Today, calm has descended throughout almost all our national territory because we have acted on our firm commitment to implement the agreements. Fully inclusive institutions have gradually been established and we are now preparing to enter the post-transition era with elected institutions, to the satisfaction of our people and that of the international community. We wish to send the strong message that we are resolved to break the logic of violence and to support the restoration of peace, reconciliation, democracy and development in our country. We also protect and strengthen peace and security by integrating the fighters from the armed movements into the security and defence forces that we will need to establish our national army and police force, to the comfort of all. The process will be complemented by the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants and troops not included in the integration process. The disarmament, demobilization and professional or social reintegration programme is coordinated at the uppermost level by the highest authorities of our country, including the ministries concerned and representatives of the World Bank, the army and the armed movements. The programme is currently in its first phase, bringing the combatants together into agreed zones. Those combatants will very shortly be transferred to the sites identified for their cantonment, while the Government troops will remain in their barracks. We already have in place a precedent for the integration of the forces, having created a special institutional protection brigade on 1 July. Moreover, mixed military units have begun training in a pilot centre with a view to establishing the national defence force. This approach is intended to correct the ethnic and regional imbalances that have often been observed in our country and that have constituted the source of the social and political conflict that has brought us so much suffering. The demobilization sites are ready, but we face a terrible shortage of material and financial resources to pay for the increase in the numbers of people we will have to handle in the first few years before progressive demobilization ends. We must recall that demobilization and disarmament will make a real contribution to creating a security environment conducive to the organization of free, democratic, transparent and honest elections. The draft post-transition constitution, which will serve as the basis for organizing the elections, and other legal and administrative texts were discussed at great length among the politicians in the President’s circle and at the levels of mediation and heads of State of the subregion. Some provisions on power-sharing that did not enjoy unanimous support were upheld by 20 of 30 political parties and endorsed by the twenty- second summit of heads of State of the subregion. They were then included in the draft constitution, which was adopted unanimously by our Parliament, with a 70-per cent attendance rate, on 17 September. We have 7 scheduled a referendum on the draft constitution for 20 October. Thus, despite the opposition of some political parties, we believe that Burundi will soon have a post- transition constitution and other legal texts that are customary in democratic countries. We are placing our faith in the Independent National Electoral Commission established to organize the technical aspects of the elections. We would stress that the Commission will succeed only if we obtain the support of our external bilateral and multilateral partners. We sincerely thank those who have already pledged their assistance, and we would urge others to follow suit. The efforts to maintain peace are still being resisted by the Palipehutu-Forces nationales de liberation movement, which still refuses to come to the negotiating table. Following the movement’s involvement in the assassination of Papal Nuncio Monsignor Courtney and in the massacre of Congolese refugees in Gatumba and elsewhere, the summit of heads of State of the regional initiative on Burundi, meeting in Dar-es-Salaam, classified it as a terrorist organization and recommended that the United Nations and the African Union take the appropriate restrictive measures. Here, I would like to urge the United Nations to support the decisions taken at that regional summit and thus to follow the lead of the African Union, which has already responded favourably to that appeal. I also take this opportunity to thank the heads of State of the subregion and the mediators for the support that they have constantly provided to the Burundian peace process. As everyone knows, security concerns are unfortunately not limited to within my country’s borders. The security of Burundi affects that of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Tanzania. In the light of that interdependence, an international conference on peace, security, democracy, economic development and regional integration in the Great Lakes region is scheduled for November in Dar es Salaam. That conference will undoubtedly have a positive effect on the countries concerned. I have the firm conviction that it will promote a new dynamic of peace in the entire subregion so that we can bury the hatchet of war and turn resolutely towards the integral and integrated development of our peoples. The efforts to contain and resolve the many conflicts that continue to shake the African continent are very instructive. First of all, the African countries and the African Union have shown their political will and their resolve to manage their own problems, despite an obvious shortage of resources. Therefore, it is time to call for the substantial strengthening of international support provided to the African Union and for much more active cooperation between the African Union and the United Nations on conflict prevention and the restoration of peace. Moreover, the various approaches have shown us that the quest for peace must be inclusive, not deliberately excluding anyone. That is a sensible and productive approach. Such joint action is something we hope the Organization can do — particularly now, when multilateralism seems to be recovering from recent difficult ordeals. We must therefore remain united to preserve the cherished ideals bequeathed to us by the founders of the United Nations and enthusiastically reaffirmed in the Millennium Declaration. A much more cohesive and shared action under the banner of the United Nations is thus essential at the present time, marked by the complexity of the challenges we are called to face, such as nebulous international terrorism, which is more of a threat to peace, stability and the safety of our borders than ever before; the risk of the proliferation of small arms and light weapons; and prostitution and the illicit trade in human persons, whose effects are both cruel and devastating to human rights, particularly children’s rights. Cohesion undoubtedly implies a carefully planned effort. In that regard, we welcome the Secretary-General’s initiative to establish a High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. Its conclusions will serve as beacons to us as we seek to humanize international relations and to promote a world of solidarity and development compatible with the environment. The complexity of the current challenges justifies — now more than ever before — the urgent, long-awaited reform of the Organization. We welcome the steps already taken to streamline the working methods of the General Assembly and the reforms already initiated within the Secretariat with a view to adapting the Organization’s internal structures and culture to new expectations and challenges. We hope that the same dynamic will be applied to Security Council reform so that it will soon become a reality. 8 Attaining the Millennium Development Goals is a challenge for us all. Experts suggest that the efforts already undertaken are not equal to the task. Therefore, we must sharpen our focus by mobilizing more of the necessary resources. Our moral and historic responsibility to future generations is particularly great in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Entire families have been decimated, millions of children have been orphaned and elderly persons are abandoned, alone and defenceless. It is the family structure that is disintegrating, and that is horrible to see. It is our common responsibility to unite our forces to wipe out this pandemic, which knows no borders and threatens the very survival of the human race. We have no right to fail. In the economic area, we know the unbearable situation of the peoples in the least developed countries, who are trapped in abject poverty. In that regard, my delegation urges the international community to work together in implementing the Brussels Programme of Action. From that perspective, debt relief, more flexible conditions for joining the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, an increase in official development assistance and the opening up of international markets deserve careful attention. The international community cannot remain indecisive on the issue of agricultural subsidies in industrialized countries that distort the rules of the game of free competition and considerably reduce the opportunities for poor countries to develop. Africa has enormous natural resources, yet poverty, diseases and suffering of every kind ravage it more than they do other continents. By forming the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, Africans have committed themselves to promoting good political and economic governance — a prerequisite for sustainable development. The priorities are already identified, sector by sector, and the subregional structures are being further strengthened. Yet the success of the efforts currently under way will depend not only on the resolve of Africans themselves, but also on the level of solidarity offered by the international community. The twentieth century and the beginning of the twenty-first century have witnessed important forums in which the world’s leaders have made decisive commitments in various areas affecting human security, in the profound sense of the term. Those commitments, which have given rise to much hope throughout the world, have been implemented only partially. It is our hope that the high-level plenary meeting scheduled for 2005 will be able to breathe new life into the implementation of the commitments made, for the happiness and prosperity of present and future generations.I have the greatest honour to speak on behalf of the people of Tuvalu, who wish me first of all to convey their warmest greetings to this session of the General Assembly. We also extend our sincere congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election and assure you of our full cooperation. 18 We congratulate the outgoing President, Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia, for his excellent leadership. Coming from a small island developing State ourselves, we are proud of the many achievements so ably accomplished under his presidency. We would also like to extend our warmest gratitude to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his staff for their dedication to the work of the United Nations. The United Nations, through the Secretary-General’s High Representative, participated in the Pacific Island Forum Leaders meeting, held in Samoa last month, at which a new strategy for regional cooperation in the Pacific, the Pacific Plan, was considered. That is highly commendable. Like all Forum members, Tuvalu looks forward to United Nations solidarity and support, bilaterally and through the Pacific Island Forum and other Pacific regional organizations, in order to realize that Pacific initiative. Tuvalu is privileged and proud to be in this most indispensable body, the United Nations. Our presence here demonstrates our belief in the noble principles and goals of the United Nations. At the same time, however, we are constantly reminded of our responsibilities to all Tuvaluans, who every day worry about their future economic, cultural, environmental and long-term security and survival on our small, isolated and extremely vulnerable islands. Tuvuluans wonder if the pride of being in the United Nations is commensurate with the many aspired needs of our people. Is there any real value of being at the United Nations to the villagers and local communities, who can barely overcome the limitations posed by the lack of opportunities, marginalization, isolation, economic exclusion and their extreme vulnerability? It is our strong belief that to maintain its legitimacy and relevance to all, the United Nations needs to reassess its role and functions in order to better reflect the reality of today’s world, in line with its principle of sovereign, equitable participation and representation. We therefore support ongoing reforms in the work of the United Nations. In particular, we support the increase in the number of both permanent and non-permanent seats in the Security Council. Expansion, in our view, should be considered on the basis of responsible contribution to international development and peace, and in this vein we would support the allocation of a permanent seat to Japan. We also believe more equitable representation of the developing countries in the non-permanent seats of the Council is vital and long overdue. Security challenges continue to create worldwide havoc, fear and uncertainty. Terrorist acts, including the unfortunate seizure of a school in Russia, have proven the continued existence of forces bent on undermining the United Nations founding goals of freedom, peace and security. They have also underscored the urgency with which we, the United Nations, must collectively combat these forces. Tuvalu is fully committed to joining the fight against international terrorism as required by Security Council resolutions. But we would need to seek the assistance of the United Nations and the international community to help us fulfil those requirements, particularly the reporting requirements of those resolutions and of the international anti-terrorism conventions. Tuvalu recognizes the seriousness of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in relation to the social and economic development and security of Tuvalu and other Pacific island countries. Given our exposure and the level of mobility of our communities, particularly our seafarers who serve on merchant ships worldwide, there is an urgent need for assistance from the international community, such as that provided under the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, in order to combat the threats of the epidemic. As is widely acknowledged, a serious challenge to Tuvalu and to all small island developing States is our unique vulnerability to external forces. That vulnerability arises not from our own actions but simply from our being islands with small economies, our isolation, our fragmentation and the fragility of our natural environments. These factors taken together translate into significant constraints on development and a severe lack of capacity to cope with the many changes taking place in the world, especially through globalization. Yet for us in small island developing States, although we witness daily the forces of trade, communications and travel creating a single global community, the problems associated with poverty, lack of opportunity, marginalization and environmental decline continue to plague our efforts. There is a genuine need for the United Nations and the international community to better recognize the special 19 and unique circumstances of small island developing States and their aspirations to participate more equitably in a globalized world. Sustainable development, particularly for the most disadvantaged and vulnerable developing States, is most crucial. In June, Tuvalu undertook a comprehensive review of its development priorities and adopted a national sustainable development strategy that we call “The Tuvalu Vision 2015”, premised on international development agendas, including the review of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and aimed at building Tuvalu’s resilience in coping with the challenges it faces. The promotion of good governance, democratic principles and respect for the rule of law is strongly recognized as fundamental to the successful implementation of that strategy. We acknowledge with greatest appreciation the generous support of the Governments of Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Italy and the Republic of China on Taiwan, the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs and the Asian Development Bank in that exercise. We look forward to partnering with them, and with others in the international community, in the realization of that strategy. As a poorly resourced small island developing State and a least developed country as well, even our best efforts to escape the cycle of poverty and marginalization are doomed to failure without the meaningful support of the international community, civil society and the private sector. The Millennium Declaration, the Monterrey Consensus and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation have all provided clear road maps for partnerships towards sustainable development. The signposts offered under these road maps will remain mere rhetoric unless they translate into real developments, responsive to the unique needs of small island developing States such as Tuvalu. It is for these reasons that full and effective implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States is ever so crucial. Tuvalu is very encouraged by the progress so far achieved in the review of the Programme. However, success in the further implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action will depend entirely on a better appreciation of the unique situation of small island developing States such as Tuvalu, easier access to and the provision of adequate financial and technical resources, development aid and the dissemination of appropriate technology, particularly for new and renewable energy and capacity-building. In terms of natural resources, Tuvalu is truly a small island country in a big ocean. The Pacific Ocean surrounding our islands provides the vital source of our livelihoods and our economic and social development. Increasingly, however, we are concerned with the real threats of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and of ocean pollution from waste, particularly from the trans-shipment of highly radioactive and toxic materials through our region. We seek the understanding of the international community to help us save our oceans and support fully the Pacific Islands Regional Ocean Policy adopted by our Government leaders in 2002. The overall decline in overseas development assistance in real terms is cause for serious concern. The failure of developed countries to fulfil the United Nations minimum target of providing 0.7 per cent of their gross national product in overseas development assistance to small island developing States translates into lower economic growth as well as a further widening development gap for small island developing States such as Tuvalu. This needs to be addressed urgently. An important source of financial flows to developing countries, particularly to small island developing States such as Tuvalu, is migrant workers’ remittances from developed countries. Indeed, remittances from our overseas workers, and particularly Tuvaluan seafarers serving abroad, provide a substantial source of income, which is so vital for social and economic development in Tuvalu. Tuvalu fully supports giving urgent international attention to the issue of migrant workers’ rights, including the maintenance of international standards specifying minimum requirements for certificates of competency and provisions for the safety and security of migrant workers, in order to ensure the continuation of this vital source of capital for SIDS. The international meeting in Mauritius in January must result in a stronger commitment from the international community and in pragmatic and doable actions on the ground in all small island developing States. An issue of continuing concern to Tuvalu is the question of the representation of the Republic of China 20 on Taiwan in the United Nations. Regrettably, this Organization cannot be said to be universal without the rightful representation of the 23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan. Tuvalu feels that the active and responsible participation of the Republic of China on Taiwan in world affairs — especially in trade, commerce and international development — without representation in the United Nations is unjust and morally wrong and needs to be corrected. We in Tuvalu, a mere three meters above sea level, live in constant fear of the adverse impact of climate change and the rising sea level. Our livelihoods and sources of food security are already badly affected. With increased ground water salinity, land erosion and coral bleaching, we experience total anxiety. The threat is real and serious and is like a slow and insidious form of terrorism against Tuvalu. Tuvalu, therefore, accords significant importance to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol, as they provide the most appropriate global framework to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We congratulate the Framework Convention secretariat as the Convention marks its tenth anniversary this year. However, we are deeply concerned by the failure and the lack of leadership on the part of industrialized countries in the implementation of commitments and in the ratification and enforcing of the Kyoto Protocol. We in small island developing States recognize that all nations must take steps to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions at some stage. However, Tuvalu believes that the Kyoto Protocol must be the first step in this direction for now and for setting the way forward in the future. The Protocol as such must enter into force without delay. However, the industrialized countries must act first as it is their legacy of emissions that is creating the problems of today. Actions must also include assisting small island developing States in their adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change, particularly in terms of urgently providing adequate financial and technical resources in line with the responsibilities and obligations under the Framework Convention. As we mark the tenth anniversary of the Framework Convention, and as we begin to explore future actions against climate change and sea-level rise, we appeal for more attention from the United Nations, whose raison d’être is to ensure world peace and security, and for stronger leadership by the international community against this global threat. In conclusion, we want to say that efforts aimed at the sustainable development of small island States like Tuvalu will have no meaning unless the issue of climate change and sea level is addressed decisively and with urgency. Tuvalu’s interest in enforcing Kyoto is not self-serving. The more serious consequences of not acting now, as we are already witnessing the world over, will be felt everywhere. It is our hope that, out of this common house of our United Nations family, there will emerge better understanding and goodwill for the long-lasting security and survival of Tuvalu, of SIDS and of the whole world. God bless the United Nations.The agenda of this session not only is full of importance and burning issues but also brings great hopes and expectations. In his statement, Mr. Bernard Bot, the Foreign Minister of the Netherlands, presented the European Union’s position on the most important problems. That statement fully reflects our thinking and concerns. One issue, however, that deserves our special attention today is the reform of the United Nations. The present session of the General Assembly must be remembered as a session of reform. It should lay the foundations for a profound and consensus-based reflection on the relevance and the effectiveness of the United Nations. This reflection should result in bold and imaginative decisions providing for a substantial overhaul of the Organization. That is how we in Poland see the preparations for the major event of 2005, which will undertake a comprehensive review of the implementation of the Millennium Declaration Goals and mark the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan noted, the United Nations is at a fork in the road. It is time to act. Every year, at the annual general debate of the General Assembly, we take the floor to express our views — sometimes very critical — on the work of the Organization. However, there is little evidence that these debates have had any significant impact on the future of the United Nations. Indeed, over the past years, the United Nations has seen many celebratory and majestic gatherings. Unless we are able to build a political consensus and work out efficient, forward-looking and workable decisions, we should cut down on high-level ceremonies. 46 Poland has frequently voiced its conviction that we have to carry out a comprehensive, strategic review of the role of the United Nations in both its normative and institutional aspects. It was with this in mind that, on behalf of my country two years ago, I had the privilege of putting forward the idea of a new political act for the United Nations. We are pleased to see that, two years later, that belief and determination are widely shared. Bearing in mind the unique momentum for reform, we look forward to the recommendations of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. They should provide the critical mass for the reform efforts and form a solid basis for further actions. In that context, I express my gratitude to the members of the Panel, who came to Warsaw in May this year to consult with representatives of our part of Europe on the most important conceptual aspects of the reform. The Warsaw Regional Conference was a rewarding experience. The report issued following the conference has been made available to all delegations at the Assembly. We have never had any problem with ideas, excellent proposals and promising initiatives. The biggest obstacle to reform, rather, has been the lack of political consensus. The reform cannot be effective if it reflects the ideas of small groups of specialists or politicians alone. It must rely on a broad consensus and reflect a shared community of values and a sense of identity and purpose. Building that consensus is our major, common task. The reform of the United Nations has to go beyond institutional aspects, but we recognize the fact that institutions are important. Therefore, any reform package lacking ideas for reforming the organs of the United Nations would be considered inadequate by the majority of Member States. Poland shares the common opinion that it is hard to imagine strengthening the role of the Security Council without increasing its legitimacy. Today’s discussions on Council reform are focused mainly on expanding its membership. However, the key to a more effective and legitimate Security Council does not lie in the number of its members. A Council of 24 members would probably have no more powerful a voice than a Council of 15. However, at the present stage of discussions, we agree that the Security Council has to be expanded. One of the deficiencies of the United Nations, as it transpires from the conceptual discussions, is that there is too great a gap between the functions of mandating and implementing. Therefore, we believe that it is the responsibility of the members of the Security Council to take the lead in providing political and material support for implementation of Security Council mandates. Security Council reform should be based on the assumption that membership on the Council not only confers additional privileges but also brings additional responsibilities. The reform should preserve the inherent balance among the various organs of the United Nations. While we support the tendency to expect more from the Security Council, any reform should be accompanied by a more effective role for the General Assembly. The two bodies should be seen as mutually supportive and reinforcing organs. However, in order to use the potential of the General Assembly effectively and optimize its performance, we must profoundly change the way we speak to one another in this forum. This must be a forum of dialogue. Occasionally, one hears jokes along the lines that the General Assembly is a place where everybody speaks but nobody listens. We have to change that. We must start talking to one another more directly, more candidly. Let me assure the President, as we congratulate him on the assumption of his post, that Poland will support all his efforts in that regard. We need to enhance the performance of the bodies of the United Nations in social and economic development and the environment, as well as in other, related, no less pressing areas. There is a real danger that the Millennium Development Goals will not be fulfilled. That would deliver a serious blow to the credibility of the United Nations. Given that the distinction between socio-economic and political issues is becoming increasingly blurred, we need a unified approach. However, the existing efforts are often too fragmented, uncoordinated, and even contradictory and self-paralytic. In this context, the role of the Economic and Social Council and its reform should be strictly linked with other United Nations bodies. In order to be comprehensive, the reform cannot stop at its institutional dimension. We need to revisit the nature of current security challenges that expose the deficiencies and shortcomings of our Organization 47 in the most systematic way. Predictable threats caused in the past by wars between countries have been replaced by indefinite and unpredictable threats caused by international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs), and an increasing number of States in distress, whose Governments are unable to exercise effective power over their territory and population. As a consequence, we are facing an unprecedented spread of terrorist acts and violence. In this context, on behalf of the people of Poland and myself, I express our deepest condolences to the relatives of the victims of the recent events in Beslan. We condemn this barbaric act and offer our solidarity with the victims. To cope properly and successfully with the new nature of threats and challenges, it is necessary to use this opportunity to examine the functional and conceptual basis of the Organization. Therefore, Poland advocates that the important part of the reform should be re-examination of the conceptual foundations of the United Nations. In today’s world, new threats cast a new light on the concepts that we use to regulate the international order. Principles such as non-use of force, sovereignty, legitimacy, accountability for both States and their leaders, subsidiarity, complementarity, solidarity and responsibility still occupy the highest level of importance. What we need is their adjustment to the current reality, new political guidelines on how we, and how Security Council members in particular, should translate them into action. Among these concepts, the principle of solidarity, is for us more than just assisting the poor and underdeveloped. Solidarity is an operational principle that should generate cooperative attitudes for countries in need, including those plagued by terrorism, natural and man-made disasters and calamities, weak State structures, and so forth. One of the most important issues, in the light of the particularly threatening nexus of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, is the principle of the non-use of force. The following aspects should be examined: anticipatory self-defence, humanitarian intervention and collective use of force with authorization by the Security Council. In this respect, we need a code of conduct that will give us sufficient predictability as to how we, as Members of the United Nations, will act on the international scene when employing the United Nations as our instrument of choice and how we will make the best use of its potential. We also hope that the reform will strengthen the role of the United Nations as a community of values. The United Nations was born to unite its Members against threats and enemies. Today, it should unite us for positive change in the consolidation of values, such as human rights, democracy, social justice, and development, which constitute the backbone and moral foundation of humankind. When preparing future decisions, we should discuss not only the content but also the form. Poland believes that the best approach to this is to have a political document that would both spell out the reinforced message about the role, principles and values, and also contain the necessary institutional adjustments. We most definitely regard this document as something more than a set of amendments to the United Nations Charter. We have to completely change the way we perceive the United Nations. For many years, most of our countries have been asking themselves what they can get from the Organization. Today, it is time for all of us to secure the future of the United Nations. At the outset, I wish to join other Member States in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. Given your extensive experience and wisdom, I am confident that you will successfully steer the course of this session, which is important for the challenging world that we live in today. I commend the efforts and the contribution to the United Nations of Mr. Julian Hunte as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, and I express my appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his commitment, dedication and leadership in working to further the realization of the objectives and the mission of the United Nations in our increasingly complex world. Since 11 September 2001, the response to terrorism at the global, regional and national levels has been significant and massive. Nevertheless, despite the progress we have made in our efforts, countries throughout the world continue to suffer from terrorist attacks that continue to kill innocent people. Therefore, I believe that our response to this deadly threat to humanity must be more comprehensive. However, I also believe that, while we fight terrorism relentlessly, we should do our best to understand its true root causes. When we are able to do that, we can hope to eliminate terrorism. When the Millennium Development Goals were launched in 2000, they held much hope for developing countries, but so far there have been no meaningful results. Poverty on many parts of the globe remains one of the greatest challenges in the world today, with more than 1.2 billion people surviving on less than $1 per day. Global poverty reduction is not the responsibility of developing countries alone; it is also the shared responsibility of the international community, particularly the developed countries. Perhaps it is time for more concrete actions rather than mere declarations. With regard to the Middle East conflict, I believe that the international community should continue to support the inalienable and sacred right of the Palestinian people to an independent State. We should also urge all parties involved to put an end to the violence once and for all. All the parties must put aside 4 their hatred and their historical animosity. Both the Palestinians and the Israelis must realize that they have equal rights to coexist, living side by side in peace and harmony for the sake of their own peoples and peace in the region. Concerning the situation in Iraq, I believe that the current, unending violence there has not created an environment conducive to national reconciliation and peace. It is my view that the United Nations and the international community must do everything possible to restore peace, security and political stability to Iraq so that the Iraqi people will have a chance to choose, in a sovereign manner, their own leaders and their own Government. I believe that democracy can never be exported or imported; it is a state of mind and must be learned. With regard to the Taiwan issue, Cambodia is of the view that it is a vital issue not only for China, but also for the region as a whole. Cambodia, like other members of the community of nations, has been unequivocally supportive of a genuine “one-China” policy, since we recognize the fact that Taiwan is an integral part of China. Every year in the General Assembly, most members of this global institution have called for reform of the United Nations, particularly of the Security Council. Indeed, Cambodia is of the view that reform of the Council is essential, not only for the credibility of the Council itself, but for that of the entire United Nations system as well. The reform of the Security Council will undoubtedly reflect the realities of the world today. In reforming the Council by enlarging its membership, we will make it more representative, more democratic and more efficient. In that regard, Cambodia supports the candidacies of Japan, Germany and India for permanent seats on the Council. The number of non-permanent members representing various parts of the world should also be increased. Cambodia wishes to appeal to all Member States to support its candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the period 2006-2007. Since we joined the United Nations in 1955, Cambodia has never held any position within it, although we have always cooperated closely with the Organization. With the formation of our new Government in July this year, and with the adoption of our rectangular strategy and our political programme, the Royal Government of Cambodia has accorded top priority to building good governance in order to carry out key areas of reform and the four pillars of its rectangular strategy for socio-economic development. In conclusion, I believe that we need to ensure that the Millennium Development Goals are followed up and carried out in response to the hopes of the billions of poor people who live in developing countries. Moreover, I feel that poverty reduction should remain a top priority to be addressed collectively by the international community so that we can close the gap between the haves and the have-nots. In the light of the challenges that pose greater threats to our world today than ever before — terrorism, violence, conflict, poverty, epidemics of infectious diseases, environmental degradation and many others — I firmly believe that we need a stronger and more efficient United Nations to address those challenges in the most effective way possible. In that regard, the Organization must be truly representative, fully democratic and strongly committed to the cause of humanity.This is my first address to this body in my capacity as the Prime Minister of Croatia. I feel privileged to be able to present the Assembly with the Croatian Government’s strategic priorities in the domain of foreign policy. I would like at the outset to congratulate Minister Jean Ping on his assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly and to wish him every success in performing his highly important task. He can rely fully on Croatia’s support and cooperation. For the first time, Croatia is addressing the General Assembly as a candidate country for membership in the European Union. Today, I would like to share with you Croatia’s position with respect to the most important tasks facing the United Nations at this time of great multilateral challenges. The very fact that so many heads of State and Government leaders have gathered here in New York to mark the beginning of the fifty-ninth General Assembly session serves as a telling affirmation that multilateralism is a driving force in global politics and confirms that we live in no ordinary times. The world at the beginning of the twenty-first century is profoundly different from the one in which the Berlin wall started to crumble. Never before have we faced so many opportunities stemming from new technologies and enhanced regional and global cooperation. And seldom have we encountered as many threats and challenges as we do today. Tragic events in recent years, from New York to Moscow, from the Middle East all the way to Southern Asia have confirmed that terrorism currently stands out as the most pressing threat to our world, taking, as it has, thousands of innocent lives at random. Equally dangerous is the threat of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs). We must resort to all means necessary to prevent the proliferation of these vehicles of death. If the two evils of terrorism and WMDs are synergized, they could bring upon mankind an unforeseeable level of destruction. Therefore, we must not relax our efforts in the fight against global terrorism nor neglect the deadly impact of WMDs. These issues must remain at the top of our priorities; any hesitation to address them in a timely and appropriate manner could have unforgiving consequences. The United Nations should continue to play a decisive role in our quest for a stable, secure and prosperous world. Croatia welcomes the reports of the Secretary-General on the work of the United Nations (A/59/1) and the implementation of the Millennium Declaration (A/59/282). I would particularly like to commend his reform efforts to date. He has identified many challenges to the United Nations and we should not hesitate to meet them. We particularly share his assessment that the United Nations requires adequate security and institutional agility to adapt to changing circumstances in the world. The Security Council has a paramount responsibility in that regard, but we must not overlook the role of the General Assembly, whose potential is far from being explored to the fullest. Regarding Security Council reform, Croatia supports the enlargement of the Council in all categories of membership, based on appropriate regional representation. Let us make the United Nations even more relevant, with a range of inventive and collaborative approaches that will increase the effectiveness of our joint efforts and result in the Organization’s increased capability to respond to the needs and realities of the new century. The credibility of the United Nations does not depend solely on the political will of its Member States and its capacity to manage crises. It also depends on its 39 capacity to respond to the expectations of those who are in dire need of assistance, who cannot protect themselves from imbalances and injustice. We cannot shy away from seeking all available solutions to the fundamental global challenges we face today, including extreme poverty, drug smuggling, the spread of deadly diseases and global climate change. Globalization needs to be mastered; the opportunities it offers need to be assessed and its excesses rectified. Finding appropriate answers to those fundamental questions requires multilateral cooperation, with a viable and effective United Nations at its core. We all wish to see a strong and decisive United Nations that is capable of effectively responding to current and future challenges, but this cannot happen by default. It depends solely on the contribution and dedication of each and every Member State. Croatia gained extensive experience in post- conflict management after the war that was imposed upon it in the 1990s, especially in the fields of refugee return, confidence building, prosecuting war crimes, economic reconstruction and the reintegration of war- torn areas with the rest of the country. We stand ready to contribute our knowledge and share it with those who need it. In confronting alarming challenges, such as security, poverty, terrorism, pandemics and environmental issues, collective action is most likely to yield the best results, since not even the most powerful among us can bear the burden alone. At this very moment, Croatian peacekeepers are participating in seven United Nations peacekeeping missions. We are determined to further intensify our participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions with respect to the composition and number of troops deployed, as well as the theatres of operation. We will continue to support the training of peacekeepers from newest troop-contributing countries — whether provided directly or under the auspices of the United Nations — by receiving foreign officers as attendees of the relevant training courses in the Republic of Croatia, as well as by sending Croatian instructors to organize and conduct courses in the newest troop-contributing countries. Croatia has presented its candidacy for membership in the Security Council for the 2008-2009 term. Our membership would not only represent a great tribute to my country, but also a recognition of all the effort that has been fruitfully invested in the peace and stability of South-East Europe. We are proud of our achievements since becoming a United Nations Member State in May 1992. From being part of a European powder keg, Croatia grew into one of the key generators and promoters of stability in South-East Europe and beyond. With a growing economy, a greatly expanded highway network and a blossoming tourism industry, Croatia is firmly oriented towards the future. And I can state with confidence that the best is yet to come. Croatia has successfully embarked upon the road of Euro-Atlantic integration, with a clear goal of European Union and NATO membership. The bedrock of Croatia’s foreign policy remains good bilateral relations with all our neighbours and beyond, cross- border and regional cooperation and constructive multilateralism. My country is speedily preparing for the opening of accession negotiations with the European Union in early 2005. We are confident that Croatia will fully meet all the criteria required in this demanding process on time. We have already demonstrated our reform and decision-making abilities through the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria required for European Union candidate status. This has been far from easy, but in the end, Croatia’s success demonstrates that hard work and reform-oriented policies are the best possible investment in a country’s future. Croatia is ready to serve as a model country in South-East Europe, encouraging and assisting our neighbours to realize their Euro-Atlantic ambitions. The prospect of EU membership has proved to be the best incentive for the countries of Central and south- east Europe to implement comprehensive political, economic, institutional and democratic reforms. A unified Europe is no longer a dream; it is a reality upon which the prosperity and security of the entire continent is based. The European Union is economic prosperity and cooperation; it is stability and security; but, above all, it is its values that stand out so strongly. We all share the same values, the same principles and the same dedication. A famous Croatian poet, Dobrisa Cesaric, wrote a poem about a waterfall whose beauty and might are 40 created by thousands of small drops of water. Croatia’s drop is a part of this wonder, called “one Europe”. Croatia is determined to contribute to the best of its ability to the success of this Organization and to the principles on which it is based. Too often we fail to fathom the true meaning of a phrase that is much more than the mere name of our Organization: the United Nations. The United Nations — there can be no better global formula in the face of the mounting challenges and the potential, burdens, hopes and expectations of the new century.I wish I could begin this address on a more optimistic note, but since we last convened at the General Assembly one year ago, many dramatic and disconcerting events have occurred on the world stage. I refer in particular to the indiscriminate and brutal terrorist attacks on civilians all over the world: in Russia, Spain, Iraq, Israel, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and many other countries. I refer to the targeting of children and their parents at schools, on buses and on aeroplanes. I refer to the almost daily bomb blasts on busy city streets, in marketplaces and in residential apartment buildings. I refer to the sadistic pride and relish with which terrorists have been filming the shooting, throat-slashing and decapitation of their victims. The purposeful torture and killing of civilians is one of the basest forms of human barbarity. It is a crime against humanity, along with ethnic cleansing and genocide. Unfortunately, terrorism is not disappearing from the news headlines of the twenty- first century. Instead, it is becoming the principal method of warfare used by disaffected groups seeking to achieve their political ends and to blackmail national Governments. Nothing can justify the use of such means. Any seemingly noble ends can only be discredited by using terrorism to further them. Frequently, countries facing terrorist attacks have been using vastly superior military capabilities to strike hard at real or perceived terrorist targets. Too often, however, those strikes have had an undesirable side effect of their own: the further wounding and killing of civilians and the additional destruction of property. Such strikes have done nothing to diminish the deep- seated feelings of resentment of disaffected populations. The events of the past few years, and indeed of the past few decades, point to the stark and sobering reality that the military option alone has not been effective in rooting out terrorism and that terrorism has not been an effective means for achieving political aspirations and goals. Such never-ending cycles of killing and mounting mutual hostility will cease once and for all only when the parties involved forsake the use of violence. In the Middle East, Latvia views the road map for peace as the only feasible means of obtaining a cessation of hostilities between Israelis and Palestinians. My country encourages the interested parties to do their utmost to de-escalate tensions and resume the peace process. In Iraq, the United States-led coalition forces have handed over power to an interim Government, but security problems are hampering the reconstruction of the country and threaten the viability of free and fair elections this coming January. The transition in Iraq will require continued international assistance, and I encourage the United Nations to assume an active role in that regard. Afghanistan is due to experience its first ever elections next month. Latvia hopes that the historic event will not be derailed by violent attempts to disrupt the democratic process in that country. Latvia is ready to continue supporting international efforts to provide peace and security in both Afghanistan and Iraq. Ten years after the human catastrophe in Rwanda, we are again confronted with the systematic rape, torture and killing of civilians, in the Darfur region of the Sudan. Those crimes have occurred on such a wide scale that they might be classifiable as ethnic cleansing and genocide. Latvia welcomes the mediation efforts of the African Union and encourages all parties involved to ensure that no further harm comes to the civilians of the region. My country supports Security Council resolution 1564 (2004) of 18 September, which urges the Sudanese Government to act decisively to stop the violence. The United Nations faces the prospect of establishing a new peacekeeping mission in Sudan, in addition to the 17 field operations already on the ground. During the past few months alone, two new Missions were established, in Burundi and Haiti, while a third was expanded in CÙte díIvoire. The United Nations peacekeeping budget for next year may nearly double as a result. Latvia is deeply committed to the United Nations and to effective multilateralism as a central element of United Nations activities. Latvia believes that the United Nations must maintain its crucial role in the mediation of international disputes and that Member 24 States must summon the collective political will to support the United Nations as a truly credible force for peace. The Security Council has been the principal forum in which the countries of the world deliberate together on matters of peace and security. Latvia believes that the Open-ended Working Group on Security Council Reform must continue its activities and come forth with proposals on how to make the Council more representative of todayís political and economic realities, how to provide the Council with greater legitimacy and how to render it more effective. A serious debate should be continued regarding the enlargement of the number of permanent and non- permanent members of the Security Council. Countries such as Japan or Germany can and should play an increasingly stronger role in this framework in view of their substantial contribution to United Nations activities and commitments. Proposals for enhancing coordination between the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Security Council have made little progress. Overlapping mandates and the duplication of efforts continue to reduce the efficiency of the United Nations. The economic and social programmes of the United Nations need to be reformed, as well. For example, why are the issues of the Economic and Social Council reviewed four times a year, when twice a year might be sufficient? Combined with the restructuring of the Economic and Social Council's functional commissions, such a reduction of redundancy in the review process could free up vital financial and human resources for important economic and social development programmes in the developing countries that need them most. Latvia recognizes the important role of the United Nations and other international organizations in promoting worldwide development and reducing poverty. Having regained its independence only 13 years ago, Latvia is gradually completing the transition from a receiving to a donor country. We are grateful for the valuable assistance that the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has provided to our country since 1993, and we are pleased that UNDP has extended its mandate until the end of 2005. Although the amount that Latvia is contributing to worldwide development assistance is not very large at the moment, we are committed to allocating no less than one third of 1 per cent of our gross national product to development assistance by 2006, as required of all the European Union's member States. Latviaís priority areas for development cooperation centre around the promotion of democratic and civil societies, economic development, environmental protection and other issues in the countries neighbouring the European Union, particularly Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Russia, Ukraine and Uzbekistan, to name some of the countries to which Latvia has already provided bilateral technical assistance. Latvia is eager to reduce the divides between the developed and the developing world. The industrial society into which we were born has been characterized by the heavy machinery and tools that have marked human progress over the last two centuries. Now this society is evolving into an information and knowledge society, with innovation as an important engine of growth. Latvia has been actively involved in the United Nations World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) and considers it an honor to chair the Preparatory Committee of the second phase of the Summit, which will take place in Tunis in November 2005. The WSIS process should be an integral part of the international community’s efforts to eradicate poverty as outlined in the Millennium Development Goals, which will be reviewed periodically until 2015. Although the delegations here today come from many different backgrounds, practice different faiths and speak different languages, all of us in this room share the same desire to make our world a better, cleaner, more peaceful and more prosperous place to live in. We share a world view on what it means to be a human and on the inherent value of each human life. The more we strive to enshrine such values as tolerance, compassion and mutual respect, the more human and the more humane our societies will become.I wish to extend to you, Sir, my delegation’s warmest congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I am confident that, under your stewardship, this session will successfully accomplish its mission. The outgoing year has been a challenging time as the international community has grappled with a host of formidable challenges, including terrorist attacks, the threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, violent internal conflicts, the surge of infectious diseases and natural disasters, in addition to persisting poverty and hunger and humanitarian emergencies. Moreover, the war in Iraq and its aftermath have had a lasting impact on the fabric of international affairs in the Middle East and the world over. The bitter divisions that it engendered over how to ensure our collective security against terror and the threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have posed a challenge and a test for the United Nations. It is gratifying to see that, in these difficult times, the world Organization has been able to regain its validity as the indispensable common house of the entire human family. To make the United Nations a more effective instrument for pursuing all the priorities identified in the Millennium Declaration, world leaders pledged their resolve to undertake a set of bold measures to reform the world Organization so as to enable it to adequately address the manifold challenges ahead. The task of reforming the United Nations will undoubtedly require truly innovative approaches and the unfaltering commitment of Member States. In that respect, my delegation eagerly awaits the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, and ensuing recommendations by the Secretary-General to be submitted to the General Assembly later this year. 31 In the meantime, my delegation highly commends the hard work and tireless efforts of Mr. Julian Hunte, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. Resolutions 58/126 and 58/316, adopted under his skilful leadership, have proved to be by far the most far-reaching actions in recent years. Significant as they are, we should nevertheless aim higher and work with vigour to further reaffirm the central position of the General Assembly as the chief deliberative, policy- making and representative organ of the United Nations and to enable it to play that role more effectively. On Security Council reform, I wish to join previous speakers in reiterating that its composition has long ceased to reflect current geopolitical realities. Mongolia reaffirms its support for a just and equitable enlargement of the Security Council by increasing the number of permanent and non-permanent seats, while ensuring the representation of developing and developed countries. In that regard, my Government supports the legitimate aspirations of such countries as Japan, Germany and India that are willing and able to shoulder greater responsibility in pursuit of international peace, security and development. Permanent seats, in our view, should also be allocated to Latin America and Africa. We do not, however, seek enlargement for its own sake — the expanded Security Council must be fully equipped to effectively react to the crises and conflicts of the new millennium. It is also our view that the veto power ought to be thoroughly reviewed, and efforts should be exerted to make the Council more democratic by enhancing its accountability and the transparency of its work. There appears to be a broad consensus emerging that next year’s high-level meeting to review the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals and the celebrations for the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations will galvanize us into making bold plans for the future — plans that will enable the family of nations to attain the ambitious, but achievable, goals set by the Millennium Declaration through a genuine display of solidarity, shared responsibility and effective partnership. In his address to the Assembly last week the Secretary-General eloquently underscored the need to uphold the rule of law on both the international and domestic levels. Mongolia firmly believes that the rule of law and multilateralism are the fundamental principles of international relations in the twenty-first century. We must not falter or fail in pursuing them. The value of international law — the only viable framework of rules to govern the behaviour and interaction among States — must never be rated on its performance in the short term or for its ability to achieve near-sighted goals, nor should the value of dialogue and collective decision-making be called into question. Violation of those principles, even with the best of intentions, is dangerous. Let us remember that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Such actions would only bring about unforeseen and unintended effects that in the long term could be extremely harmful to established international mechanisms and processes and endanger the existing world order. That simple truth applies to every aspect of international life from the war on terror and the maintenance of peace and security to the management of international trade and environmental protection. Indeed, any unlawful act, once committed, will certainly have far greater repercussions than imagined at the outset — repercussions that will ultimately undermine its original objectives. The persistent instability of some regions of the world and the people who suffer from internal armed conflicts represent the failure of world leaders to enforce the commitment they undertook in the Millennium Declaration to “spare no effort to free our peoples from the scourge of war, whether within or between States”. The violence and hatred that spread across the Darfur region of Sudan is one such tragic example. In the Middle East, Mongolia notes with sadness the lack of progress on the path towards the peaceful resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We urge both sides to exercise utmost restraint, and support the efforts of the Quartet to ensure the implementation of the road map. Mongolia is also concerned with the security situation in Iraq. The end of occupation and the formal restoration of Iraqi sovereignty on 28 June 2004 were laudable achievements, yet the persisting climate of violence and insecurity threatens to undermine the efforts of the international community to bring peace, security and stability to that country. Mongolia wholeheartedly supports the political process based on Security Council resolutions 1483 (2003) and 1546 (2004), and the actions undertaken by the interim Government to convene a national conference, create an interim council and hold elections early next year. 32 In Afghanistan, the approaching presidential and parliamentary elections are important milestones for a new, democratic State. The registration of more than 10 million voters, a significant portion of whom are women, clearly demonstrates the strong determination of the Afghan people to rebuild their country. Continued engagement of the international community remains crucial in maintaining peace and stability in Afghanistan and promoting the Bonn process. The Korean nuclear crisis, and the resulting tensions on the Korean peninsula, cast dark clouds over all of North-East Asia. As a North-East Asian nation that rejects nuclear arms, Mongolia stands for a nuclear-weapon-free Korean peninsula and sees it as an important condition for the reconciliation of both Koreas and, therefore, for the peace and stability of the region. The continuation of the six-party talks towards a negotiated solution is of vital importance for the maintenance of peace and stability both on the Korean peninsula and in the region as a whole. Indeed, strengthening international peace and security by supporting practical disarmament measures in every possible way has been one of the main priorities of Mongolia’s foreign policy. The International Campaign to Ban Landmines and efforts to curb the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons have an immediate bearing on human security and social and economic development around the world. As an ardent advocate of the disarmament of weapons of mass destruction, and, in particular, nuclear disarmament, Mongolia believes that the full and effective implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons by both the nuclear and the non-nuclear weapon States will play a pivotal role in promoting international peace and nuclear security. In that context, Mongolia welcomes Security Council resolution 1540 (2004), adopted unanimously under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, as a meaningful step towards curbing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. However, we also believe that another significant step needs to be made towards nuclear disarmament: the early entry into force and universalization on a priority basis of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. The establishment of new and consolidation of existing nuclear-weapon-free zones should remain high on the international agenda. My Government will continue its efforts towards institutionalizing its nuclear-weapon-free status at the international level. Mongolia’s internationally recognized and legally binding nuclear-weapon-free status could further contribute towards ensuring peace and stability in the region of North-East Asia and beyond. The global war on terror remains high on the agenda of the international community. The 11 September attacks heralded the start of an unprecedented global campaign that united countries, large and small, in their resolve to stand together to combat terrorism. And yet, despite the efforts of the international community, terrorism — like the Hydra of Lerna — seems to grow a new head for each one it loses. The current year has been no exception to that sad pattern and civilians continue to be the target of attacks: in Iraq, both Iraqi and foreign nationals have been targeted; in Madrid, an attack was perpetrated against a commuter train; and, in the Russian Federation, there have been a string of attacks, the latest being the school massacre in Beslan, where children fell victim to an unprecedented atrocity. Those events have highlighted once again the need for an effective international anti-terrorist campaign. The United Nations plays a central role in the fight against terror, coordinating the actions of its Member States and providing them with technical and legislative support. Mongolia supports the efforts of the Counter-Terrorism Committee aimed at its revitalization, and is looking forward to seeing the Counter-Terrorism Executive Directorate in operation. We also attach importance to the speedy finalization of draft international conventions on terrorism and nuclear terrorism currently in progress. No matter how pressing the fight is against terror, it should not overshadow other issues that impact the daily lives of millions of people — from extreme poverty and hunger, to environmental degradation and HIV/AIDS, to health and education. The growing development disparity between rich and poor countries; increasing poverty and unemployment in the developing world, particularly in the least developed countries; the burden of debt and trade inequalities are of growing concern to us. We feel that development itself is an effective remedy for the root cause of those social ills, and thus attach particular importance to the implementation, at the national, regional and international levels, of the goals agreed to at the 33 Millennium Summit and in Monterrey, Johannesburg and Rome. In this context, my delegation welcomes the New York Declaration on the Action Against Hunger and Poverty adopted on 20 September this year at the highest political level, which is aimed at fostering our common fight to overcome poverty and increase financing for development. Mongolia welcomes the adoption by the World Trade Organization (WTO) members of the negotiating framework for the Doha trade round last July. This is of particular importance since the Doha Development Agenda provides significant opportunities for economic development and fair trade. We continue to favour special and differentiated treatment for developing countries, especially those with small and vulnerable economies whose populations are largely dependent for their livelihoods on being granted full market access and low import tariffs by the major trading partners. One year from now, world leaders will meet here at the summit level to review progress in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. In preparation for this important event, Mongolia has produced its first national report on the implementation of the Goals. In recent years, the world has witnessed the emergence of a new global commitment to democracy and good governance. A little over a year ago, Mongolia hosted the Fifth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies, which had the principal theme of democracy, good governance and civil society. Mongolia is now actively engaged in ensuring an effective follow-up to the conference both nationally and internationally. In this respect, my delegation wishes to commend the proposal by the President of the United States aimed at establishing a democracy fund at the United Nations to help countries to lay the foundations of democracy by instituting the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, a free press, a multiparty system and trade unions. This fund would help support our endeavours to strengthen democracy and good governance and to develop an effective partnership with civil society in the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. This year, Mongolians have participated in their fourth parliamentary election. During the election, the two main political parties in our country, the Motherland-Democracy Coalition and the Mongolian People’s Revolutionary Party, won almost an equal number of seats in the Parliament. The two political parties have agreed to form a coalition Government on the basis of consensus-building, thereby demonstrating that democratic principles and values have firmly taken root in Mongolian soil. I have no doubt that the new coalition Government will wish to strengthen democracy and good governance, ensure sustained economic growth, reduce poverty and unemployment, and pursue a foreign policy that is open, multifaceted and proactive.Today no one denies that globalization is here and that it is here to stay. Not only has it changed the world of communications so that now everything happens at the same time throughout the world, but more importantly, it has made historical borders irrelevant. The young generation has more contact with other young people living thousands of miles away than they have with their own neighbours or family. It is absolutely true that a global culture is emerging in this world. While this is happening, countries are still living on their nationalisms, their secular habits, their own interests and their parochial projects that are often alien to the new realities. The question that we leaders ask ourselves ó especially 9 those of us who represent small nations - is whether this inexorable change can be handled by the organizations that we have created, or whether those organizations still have a long way to go in terms of adapting to the new reality. When we look at the impressive success achieved by the United Nations since San Francisco in 1944, two things seem clear. First, the institutions that we have created represent the greatest and most successful effort ever made by mankind to organize peaceful coexistence and to endow the planet with the best possible instruments for dealing with the important aspects of human lives within human society. Secondly, it is equally clear that the world has changed so much that the current reality now far exceeds the capacity of the institutions that were created to address and resolve past issues, issues that today have taken on totally different characteristics. Suffice it to recall that the founding Members of the United Nations numbered 51 and that today there are 191 Member States. More important, the worldís population at that time was only half what it is today. And the total is inexorably rising towards 9 billion. Furthermore, over the past 40 years, scientific advances and the ensuing technological applications have increased the resources of a very small group of nations, leaving far behind many other countries, some of which only recently gained their independence and most of which are rich in natural resources but lack the basic structures needed to achieve sustainable growth - countries, moreover, where, no doubt as a consequence of this, the population is increasing at very high rates and where the resulting emigration to other continents will soon create serious problems of coexistence. Uruguay has been a Member of the United Nations since its foundation and believes in the Organization and in the varied multilateral agencies that support its efforts; we understand the need to consider Charter revision so that nations that did not then carry the weight they carry today can assume greater obligations in the inescapable tasks that the situation of mankind now imposes on us. It is time for them to share the responsibility with the five nations that assumed it nearly 60 years ago. Uruguay has also been participating in peacekeeping operations for many years. Uruguay is one of the largest troop contributors, and is the very largest if the ratio of its small population - 3.4 million - to peacekeepers is taken into consideration. We have participated in operations in Asia and in Africa, and we are currently deployed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Haiti, Eritrea and elsewhere. Uruguay acknowledges and welcomes the wise European Union effort to bring equality at the highest level to European nations with marked differences in income compared with the richest countries. The examples of Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Greece, which will surely be emulated for new European Union members, indicate what we in the United Nations must do for the Congo and Haiti. There is no point in achieving peace if the United Nations lacks funds that can immediately be spent for the practical benefit of peoples in extreme economic difficulties. We must create global and largely autonomous financial instruments to achieve those goals. That is the only way for the United Nations to succeed. A tiny nation like Haiti ó of 27,000 square kilometres and 9 million inhabitants, where the average number of children per mother is 4.7 and which lacks the institutional and material infrastructure it needs - cannot and will not resolve its problems merely because a contingent of military forces from countries of the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR) is keeping the peace. Travelling in the Congo with the troops we recently dispatched, we see exactly the same thing happening: a nation of 2.2 million square kilometres and a population of 50 million does not have a road going from one end of the country to the other. Without autonomous, ready and independent means of coping with and transforming that state of affairs, the United Nations will not have solved anything at all even five, 10, 15 or 20 years from now. Yet only the United Nations can handle such tasks. Just more than three years since the fateful day of 11 September 2001 and just over six months since the tragedy in Madrid, new and terrible forms of violence continue assailing other parts of the world, claiming hundreds of innocent victims ó as we have recently seen in Russia and as we see in the Middle East. This reveals the destructive power that poses a permanent threat to the world as a whole, a source of inescapable sadness and a cause for despair about the human condition itself. Terrorism - and a genuine commitment to combat and defeat it - must therefore be the first item 10 on our international agenda. Each State, each nation, each community and each human being must contribute to this endeavour; that is how we can help the United Nations to fulfil its role as universal guarantor. Combating this and other evils - hunger, poverty, underdevelopment, marginalization, exclusion - requires a United Nations that is more united, nimbler and more effective. That is why the Organization must be more representative, more balanced and more reliable: so that it can continue to be a reference point for the weak and a restraining influence on the strong. Here, our country has recently adopted legislation strengthening the system of prevention and control of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. We are in compliance with nearly all current treaties in this area, and our legislation improves our mechanisms for international cooperation against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. At the Millennium Summit and in the Doha Declaration and Monterrey Consensus we agreed on principles, goals and priorities, and we made commitments which we reaffirmed a few days ago at the summit of world leaders for the Action Against Hunger and Poverty. If we are to attain those goals, we need more just and equitable rules of international trade. That is how to ensure that this becomes a key stage in the march towards the social and political stability that is today in serious jeopardy. This is particularly important since it is well known that States that vociferously preach free trade and demand open markets ó which in our case are already entirely open ó themselves impose and institute obstacles to trade, subsidize their production in distorting ways and compete with countries such as mine and many others, which have nothing to offer the world except the labour of their people in the commodity and industrial sectors, which further enriches the rich countries. Uruguay attaches fundamental importance to financial and trade issues. In all international forums, Uruguay calls for freer, more open markets. We favour a single market from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego; we support the Doha Agreement; we support the opening of markets. We believe in freedom, but we believe also that freedom is indivisible: there can be no political freedom without economic freedom, and we think there can be no economic freedom that does not go hand in hand with political freedom. We believe, therefore, that peoples can be strong only if they can create their future in freedom. We cannot build and stabilize democracies if women and men cannot find an honest job to which to devote their energies. That goal cannot be achieved with economic assistance alone or with loans that, in the poorest countries, are paid back only with great difficulty. It can be brought about only with free trade ó something that the world experienced in the nineteenth century. In conclusion, Uruguay will continue to be committed to the international system and to the progressive development of international law, the most recent expression of which was the establishment of the International Criminal Court, whose Statute we have ratified. We reaffirm our conviction that multilateralism is the main principle on which the conduct of international affairs must be based. We express the hope that our region and the world as a whole will pool their efforts and work together in a realistic and committed manner. We continue to believe in the United Nations as the collective instrument best suited to our search for peace.This is a momentous year for our country as we celebrate, on 1 October, the tenth anniversary of our independence and our membership in this institution. Palau was the last country to emerge from the Trusteeship System, having been administered by the United States under the supervision of the United Nations longer than any country in the world. It was the United Nations that provided Palau with a willing forum in which to express and ultimately achieve our right to sovereignty, and for that we are ever thankful. I am also happy to observe, on this tenth anniversary, that this year we established, for the first time, a permanent mission in New York so that we can enhance our ability to meet our international responsibilities. It was the United States, through its administration and willing cooperation during our peaceful emergence into independence, that assured us the liberty and the values that guide us today. For that extraordinary legacy, we today express our deep gratitude to the United States of America. This is a good year for Palau to deepen its involvement, since it coincides with the worldís preparation for the Mauritius conference and the increased emphasis at the United Nations on the unique challenges facing small island developing States. While images of swaying palm trees and white sand beaches prevail in the world's imagination, they are only part of the story. In truth and in fact, the remoteness and the isolation of Palau make it a very difficult place to develop a self-reliant economy, provide medical care and education to its people and deter aggression and terrorism. Fuel and transportation prices are among the highest in the world. After four successive colonial administrations, our infrastructure is quite incomplete, and our most promising hope for the development of a sustainable economy, our pristine environment, is threatened by factors beyond our control, such as the failure of all industrialized countries to reach agreement on implementing the Kyoto Protocol. We have created a democratic society and ensured human rights for our people, but without international focus, we will not be able to provide hope and opportunity to our children, and we will continue to watch as they leave their homeland to seek an education and a career elsewhere. For no matter what statistics may be advanced, what references to gross national product may be debated, until we can provide our children with the incentive to stay and help build our country, we will have lost. Thus, the Mauritius process is critical for Palau, and we trust that the developed countries of the world will embrace it. 21 Similarly, we trust that United Nations agencies will sharpen their focus on the small island developing States and correct what we view as a current imbalance, in support of the fragile small States of the world. We applaud the recent efforts of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) to streamline assistance to Palau through the creation of an innovative North Pacific subregional programme that will build our capacity to protect our environment and create a sustainable economy. We are troubled, however, by a growing tendency in the donor community to demand that small countries like ours prove our capacity before assistance can be delivered. This is a catch-22 situation that threatens to halt our development. The only way we can build our capacity to execute projects that will save, for example, our unique biodiversity is to experience the hard work of completing projects and learning from our experience. This observation does not mean that we are reluctant to accept the obligations and responsibilities inherent in receiving assistance. We are willing and eager to be monitored by the international community in our performance. We firmly believe that we should be held accountable for the quality and the transparency of our efforts. It is ironic that tiny countries such as ours, where so many of the worldís environmental treasures exist, are denied the assistance they need due to a perceived lack of capacity to navigate the unwieldy bureaucracies of the international organizations charged with protecting those very treasures. As already noted, the failure of the world to come to agreement on implementing the Kyoto Protocol will contribute to the destruction of our marine and terrestrial resources. Palau, like many other small island developing States, is a window on the worldís future in this regard and must be carefully observed. We urge the GEF to create real funding opportunities for adaptation and mitigation measures in a proactive and streamlined fashion before it is too late. In a similar vein, we are increasingly aware of the particularly damaging fishing practice of deep-sea bottom trawling. Increasingly employed on the high seas as coastal fisheries are depleted, this technique entails dragging heavy equipment along the seabed, completely destroying established coral, sponge and related communities that have taken centuries to develop. We are a culture of fishing people and find this practice unacceptable. As we participated with our Pacific colleagues in eliminating drift-net fishing some years ago, we now call upon the world to join us in declaring a moratorium on deep sea bottom trawling before this practice does any more irremediable damage. Last month, Palauís accession to the Group of Asian States created the largest regional grouping in the United Nations. Two critical issues involving our Asian region also have great global significance. First, for the United Nations to be effective at ensuring international peace and security, all nations, large and small, should be represented in its deliberations. The Republic of China on Taiwan should no longer be kept on the sidelines of the most important international Organization. The principle of universality should be applied so that the 23 million people of Taiwan can bring their talents, their energy and their principled democratic positions to the organizations, bodies, specialized agencies and programmes of the United Nations, thereby aiding the rest of the world in pursuing our mutual agenda. Secondly, and also in pursuit of the most effective means to strengthen the credibility of the United Nations, Palau urges the United Nations to reform the Security Council to reflect the reality of the international community in the twenty-first century so that countries that play a major role in the maintenance of international peace and security always participate in the decision-making process of the Security Council. Palau believes that the Security Council should be expanded to include additional developing and developed countries as new members, and that Japanís stellar record of contribution is a solid basis for Japanís assumption of permanent membership of the Security Council. Japan has been a leader in international initiatives for many years, and it is for that reason that Palau takes this strongly felt position. Much of my presentation today has focused on the enormous threats to vulnerable island States like Palau. We agree with the Secretary-General, who observed in his opening remarks to the high-level segment of the twelfth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development, held at United Nations Headquarters from 28 to 30 April 2004, that ìhigh- level political attention has been diverted from sustainable development by the recent emphasis given to terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and the war in Iraq. But Palau also understands that the scourge of global terrorism and its immoral violence against innocent people must be defeated. We are proud of our sons and daughters serving in the United States military. Only last week, one of those sons, a Marine fighting side by side with Coalition forces in Iraq, paid the ultimate price, marking the first death of a Palauan in the struggle with global terrorism. Our forces are small in number but, like Corporal Ngirmidol, large in loyalty, commitment and idealism. No one should make any mistake about that. Palau is grateful to the United States for allowing us to achieve our independence and thus to join the international communityís quest for world peace. Nonetheless, a balanced international agenda which includes a determined focus on sustainable development is required if Palau is to achieve some measure of economic self-reliance, and if the world as we know it is to survive.It is my honour to read out the statement of Mr. Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, President of the Republic of Tunisia and Chairman of the sixteenth session of the Arab League Council, who had wanted to attend this meeting but was detained by urgent commitments. The statement reads as follows: “It is my distinct pleasure to convey to you, Sir, and to your sisterly country, the Republic of Gabon, my sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at this session. We wish you every success. “I also wish to express to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, my great appreciation for his excellent management of the proceedings of the previous session. “I also take this opportunity to convey my thanks and appreciation to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his commendable efforts to promote the role of the Organization and to fulfil its objectives of establishing security and peace throughout the world. “Tunisia reiterates its commitment to the principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter and reaffirms its steady resolve to continue to contribute to all efforts to reform the Organization and to develop its structures, the General Assembly and the Security Council in particular, so that it can remain the guarantor of the application of international law and the consolidation of justice, stability and development throughout the world. “Faced with rising tensions in many regions of the world, the widening development gap between countries and the serious challenges confronting humankind, the international community is called upon to reorganize international relations in accordance with a new vision based on cooperation, solidarity and coexistence among all peoples. That is the approach which we sought to develop at the Summit Conference of the Arab League Council hosted by my country on 22 and 23 May, the current session of which we have the honour of chairing. “In addition to the outcome of the Arab Summit, which represents a qualitative leap in the system of joint Arab action, the Arab States sent a clear message to the international community. In it, they reaffirmed their commitment to a just, comprehensive and lasting peace as a strategic option in settling the Arab-Israeli conflict, based on the Arab peace initiative, international legality, the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the implementation of the road map. The community of Arab States is determined to intensify its international activities to reactivate the Arab peace initiative and to rally international support for it. “The serious escalation of the situation in the occupied Palestinian territories and Israel’s stubborn imposition of a policy of fait accompli and unilateral measures require the international community to act promptly to end the violence against and provide international protection for the brotherly Palestinian people, to lift the siege imposed on its legitimate leadership, to cease the building of settlements and to recognize the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice declaring the construction of the separation wall illegal and calling for its demolition. We believe that this would help to create conditions conducive to the establishment of a new era of confidence and understanding among all parties in the region in which the peace process can be resumed, the brotherly Palestinian people can recover its legitimate rights and establish its independent State, and Syria and Lebanon can recover all of their occupied territories. “While renewing its commitment to supporting Iraq’s national unity and respect for its sovereignty and independence, the community of Arab States stresses the need for the United Nations to assume its vital role in that sisterly country. In the framework of the League of Arab States, we will continue to support international efforts to demonstrate the solidarity of the Arab world with the Iraqi people as our contribution to establishing security and stability in that country and creating conditions conducive to its reconstruction. 7 “The Arab countries also support the efforts made at the United Nations and regional levels, and in particular by the African Union, to achieve unity, peace and development in the brotherly Sudan. They also welcome the steps taken by the Sudanese Government to honour its commitments under the agreement to re-establish security and stability in Darfur, signed on 3 July 2004 with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. “The Arab Summit was an historic occasion at which the Arab States reaffirmed the fact that finding just solutions to the fundamental problems of the region that have adversely affected world peace and security would reinforce the instincts of its peoples for security and peace, enhance the development process, update and consolidate the principles of human rights and democracy, and promote the role and status of women in society, in conformity with each country’s cultural specificities, conditions and abilities, and based on its own free will and commitment to shared humanitarian values. “Given the Arab States’ conviction of the importance of the economic and social dimensions in strengthening the process of building the pan-Arab system, our Arab Summit has decided to establish a common strategy for economic and social action and a plan to fight poverty and reinforce development efforts. In so doing, it has demonstrated its resolve to contribute to implementing the decisions of the Millennium Summit. The Arab States’ call for the articulation of a new concept of cooperation- and solidarity-based partnership with all countries of the world consecrates the path of dialogue among cultures and anchors the values of tolerance, understanding and complementarity among them. “Our States and peoples hope that the international community and the influential parties will step up their endeavours to settle the pending issues in the region, support the efforts of countries to upgrade their economies, and promote their development and social programmes in the framework of cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and the League of Arab States. “Tunisia is eager to contribute to the promotion of joint Arab action and seeks to give new impetus to regional cooperation. In that context, we and our brother leaders of the Maghreb States are seeking to reactivate the Maghreb Union, which is an irreversible strategic choice and a legitimate aspiration, shared by all the peoples of the region, to greater complementarity and solidarity. Our country is also eager to continue contributing to building the structures of the African Union, strengthening the foundations of security and stability in Africa, and establishing economic and social cooperation among African countries. That will effectively help our countries to achieve integration in the march towards prosperity and progress and to create genuine partnerships with regional groupings throughout the world. “At the Mediterranean level, the ‘five plus five’ summit involving the Maghreb countries and European countries of the southern Mediterranean, held in Tunis in December 2003, has made a fresh start for cooperation and solidarity-based partnership among them in the context of establishing security and stability and of achieving economic complementarity, cultural and social communication, and constructive political dialogue. Serving as coordinator of the community of Arab States within the Euro- Mediterranean process, Tunisia strives to inject more efficiency and vitality into the process so as to consolidate the foundations of security, stability and development within the Euro- Mediterranean area. “The World Solidarity Fund for poverty eradication, created on the basis of a Tunisian proposal of 1999 and adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2002, reflects Tunisia’s ongoing commitment to anchoring the principles of justice, solidarity and sustainable development in the world, based on our successful pioneering national experience in that field over many years. We believe that the Fund, which has become a United Nations mechanism, requires all members of the international community, including Governments, civil society and private sectors, to pool their efforts and swiftly mobilize the financial resources necessary to activate it. “In that context, we suggest the proclamation of 20 December of each year as the 8 world day for the fight against poverty, in commemoration of the date of the General Assembly’s adoption of the resolution establishing the Fund and in order to enshrine the concept of solidarity as a permanent universal value in international relations. We also welcome any initiative in support of the activation of the Fund. In that regard, we take special note of the initiative of President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of the Federal Republic of Brazil. “Tunisia’s sustained efforts to provide optimum conditions for the hosting of the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society on 16 to 18 November 2005 are also being undertaken in that context. We called for the convening of such a summit in 1998, based on our conviction that, today more than ever before, our world needs to establish a solidarity-based digital partnership, allowing all countries to be integrated into the international information society. In that way, we hope to achieve a more just and balanced approach as a strong development and cultural bridge between the countries of the world, in fulfilment of the goals and principles of the Millennium Summit. “I should like to take this opportunity to reiterate my earlier invitation to heads of State and Government, to representatives of civil society and the private sector and to other international organizations, extended at the first phase of the World Summit on the Information Society held in Geneva in December 2003, to participate actively in the Tunis Summit in order to ensure its success and to achieve the prosperity and well-being of all humankind. “The General Assembly’s adoption of the Tunisian proposal to proclaim 2005 the International Year of Sport and Physical Education was a recognition of the importance of those two activities in strengthening the bonds of friendship, cooperation and rapprochement among peoples and in further disseminating peace and development throughout the world. We are convinced that all countries recognize the noble dimensions of the proclamation and will spare no effort to formalize it within their national programmers next year. “The increasing danger of the phenomenon of terrorism in our times requires greater international coordination in resisting that scourge and averting its threats by treating its root causes, finding just solutions to several outstanding international problems, and curbing poverty, exclusion and marginalization in the world. Tunisia is convinced that international relations can prosper and develop only in a climate of dialogue, entente and solidarity, eschewing fanaticism, extremism and the dangers of discord and warfare and in a context of justice, mutual respect and equitable cooperation among individuals, groups and peoples. Thus, security, peace and stability may prevail throughout the world and humankind may look to the future with the utmost confidence, optimism and ambition.”As French is the most widely recognized official language in the Central Africa subregion, I should like to begin my statement by addressing a few words to the Assembly in that common language. I would like to say how pleased I am to be here with you today, Mr. President — you in your capacity as the President of the General Assembly and me in mine as President of my country. I am also pleased to address the Assembly in order to speak on behalf of the people of Sao Tome and Principe. I shall now deliver my address in Portuguese — which, as the Assembly is aware, is the official language of Sao Tome and Principe. (spoke in Portuguese; English text furnished by the delegation) Allow me, at the outset, to congratulate you most warmly, Mr. President, on your election as President of the fifty-ninth session on the General Assembly, whose proceedings will undoubtedly benefit from your personal qualities and your experience in international relations. Gabon and my country, Sao Tome and Principe, have long enjoyed a very good relationship of cooperation at various levels, and my delegation wishes you success in your new functions. May I also thank the President’s predecessor, President Julian Robert Hunte of Saint Lucia, for the excellent work he has done. On behalf of people of Sao Tome and Principe, I would like to pay tribute to the Secretary-General for his relentless efforts and dedication at the service of the goals of the United Nations, and for his work in promoting peace and development. This session of the General Assembly is taking place during a particularly complex international situation. Violence and the violation of human rights are increasing. The United Nations must play its role as a matter of priority; otherwise world order could collapse. More than ever before, Governments must give a universal forum like this the responsibility to rebuild international order on the basis of peace, 2 respect for human rights, security and cooperation for development. Unilateralism must be put aside. We have to work together for a better world. Intolerance, terrorism, occupation, discrimination, organized crime and social injustice are some of the sources of today’s open conflicts. Religious differences and drug trafficking in some countries are driving people to high levels of violence and destruction. We the people the United Nations have to do our best to stop those atrocities, or unprotected groups of society will disappear and the spiral of violence could spread out of control. Darfur is an example of discrimination and atrocity. We call on Sudan’s Government to fulfil all the provisions contained in Security Council resolution 1556 (2004), which was adopted on 30 July. It is completely unacceptable that 50 million people worldwide have become refugees or have been internally displaced as a result of having been driven from their homes by war, persecution and human rights abuses. We now needed concrete action by leaders and peoples to ensure that the perpetrators of criminal behaviour are brought to justice, thereby rebuilding confidence among peoples and nations, but especially to address the root causes of violence. Small island States will meet in Mauritius to assess the progress made since the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which was held in Barbados. Progress in the implantation of the Barbados Programme of Action has been mixed. At Mauritius, key issues will be reviewed and decisions and recommendations will be made with regard to the questions of climate change, natural and environmental disasters, fresh water, land resources, waste management, tourism, energy, transport, biodiversity and coastal and marine resources. All those are issues affecting the ecosystems of small islands as a result of global warming. They can only be solved gradually and if the international community increases resources effectively to support the sustainable development of small island States. We would like to take this opportunity to thank the international community for everything it has done to date. I would like to extend a special thanks to the Government of Mauritius for its efforts to organize the special international conference. As an island nation, Sao Tome and Principe continues to see its very existence threatened by global warming. Our shorelines are eroding and our national territory is shrinking as the seas rise. Is my small country to end up nothing but a tiny volcanic peak sticking out above the waves, with the last of our people clinging to the land left unclaimed by the rising sea? The Kyoto Protocol must be implemented by all for the benefit of all. The Governments of Africa launched the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), aiming specifically at optimally mobilizing both African and international resources and at harmonizing contributions through a partnership based on mutual commitments and balanced interests and responsibilities. Peace, good governance, security and development are challenges that all African Governments and peoples have to face. They must create the conditions to achieve those goals. Those goals are far from being reached, given the numerous conflicts and the destructive and negatives effects of conflicts. My Government will continuously support NEPAD and will work to create the foundations for its implementation. Most countries continue to face the challenge of HIV/AIDS and other diseases. In some parts of Africa HIV/AIDS is devastating entire families, societies, cultures and economies. Treatment is still expensive, and our economy has started to feel the negative effects of the disease. Unless there are additional resources and scientific investment to find a cure for HIV/AIDS, hope for progress in Africa will continue to be far from reach. It is not only health problems that afflict poor countries. Globalization affects some because few have all the necessary conditions to develop trade and commerce and to take advantage of new technologies. The latest efforts by the World Trade Organization in Geneva are an example of the fact that those who have too much could make a difference by giving away a little to poor countries. If that is not done, we will continue to face discriminatory tariffs and to experience erosion in quality of life. My country regrets that international relations in some parts of the world have deteriorated to the point where extreme violence, destruction and violation of human rights and the environment are daily facts of life, and where the use and abuse of dangerous weapons is endemic. We also regret that refugees and children are among the targets in those conflicts. Tragedies cannot be our destiny. Tragedies and natural disasters such as the ones we face in Iraq, the 3 Middle East, Bangladesh and some countries in Africa and elsewhere are testimony of the fact that mankind is moving towards facing bigger challenges. My Government thinks that multilateralism under the framework of the United Nations is the only way for the international community to be able to achieve lasting peace and development. Terrorism around the world is causing destruction, destabilizing Governments and killing people in places such as Madrid, the Middle East and elsewhere. We are confronted by a dilemma, because thus far all the strategies employed to fight this scourge are not producing significant results. Under the authority of the Security Council, we must guarantee the universality of, and compliance with, non- proliferation treaties. My Government supports the recommendations of Secretary-General Kofi Annan on Timor-Leste. The United Nations Mission of Support in East Timor is a success we cannot ignore. The universality of the Organization must be a fact, and all countries have to be represented. Taiwan is not represented. We call upon the international community to address the issue of Taiwan’s representation. Despite its small size, Taiwan offers development aid to a large number of countries. Taiwan has all the elements to be an active member of the main international organizations. A look at its economy, trade relations, commerce, finance, application of new technologies and support for many countries reveals facts that we cannot ignore any longer. We would also like to refer to Cuba. Economic embargo is a severe sanction. It violates the Charter of the United Nations and international law. I would like to request that the General Assembly lend its assistance to bring about an end to the economic embargo against Cuba. The cold war era is behind us, and a people in need simply cannot continue to be the object of the political interest of part of the electorate in Florida. In Sao Tome and Principe we are working very hard to consolidate our young democracy and to create a solid foundation for sound development. Following the agreement signed among the Government, the international community and the military — which mounted a coup in Sao Tome and Principe in 2003 — we organized a national forum that brought all segments of our society to the table to bring their views closer together and to draw up recommendations in order to avoid more instability in the country. On the economic front, we are preparing the country for a new era based on oil exploration and production. Our National Assembly has adopted a law on the management of the revenues that we will eventually receive from oil companies. That shows that corruption will be fought, that the new generation will be protected and that the country will have enough resources for development. The Government and the people of Sao Tome and Principe adhere to the principles of respect for the sovereignty of all countries and following the path of dialogue, tolerance and mutual understanding among peoples. We call on all members of the United Nations to do likewise for the sake of a better world. I would like to conclude by expressing our gratitude to all countries Members of the United Nations for the support given to our country at the time of the first-ever coup d’état in Sao Tome and Principe, in June 2003. I would also like to thank all the countries of Central Africa — including Congo (Brazzaville), which currently presides over the Economic Community of Central African States — for everything they have done. I also wish to thank the President of the General Assembly and our partners in Central Africa and the African Union for their tireless efforts.I would like, on behalf of my delegation, to join previous speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. At the same time, I would like to extend our compliments to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, as well as to the Secretary-General, for a job well done. If there has been one consistent and predictable area of convergence in our debates during General Assembly sessions of the past, as well as during the current session, it is the compelling need for a peaceful and stable world - a world where humankind lives in harmony, mutual tolerance and respect for the collective benefit. For if we have peace and stability at the national, regional and international levels, humankind will be able to concentrate on the real issues of the development of this, our only world. Never before has our world been so insecure or faced such enormous challenges. Sadly, this insecurity results from manís inhumanity and his insensitivity to human life. Yet it is also through man's efforts that the effects of such challenges can and must be mitigated or - better still - defeated. It is common knowledge that the root cause of the world's insecurity today is international terrorism and armed conflict. Terrorist actions continue to haunt and to shock us. The recent murder of innocent, young, defenceless school children in Beslan, Russia; the bombings in Indonesia; and daily killings in Iraq, Palestine and Israel, are simply too ghastly to countenance. Equally, the recent massacres of men, women and children in refugee camps in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and the Sudan are not only dastardly in the extreme, but stand in stark contrast to everything that modern civilization, humanity and morality espouse. Our world will continue to be insecure for as long as terrorists continue to be harboured and financed by some States Members of the United Nations. We must recognize that none of us is immune from terrorism. But a more honest and practical solution would be for all States Members of the United Nations to commit themselves not to harbour or finance terrorists and their organizations. In that way, terrorists would have no safe haven, thus rendering it possible to chase them from pillar to post until terrorist organizations are eliminated from our world. We submit that yet another, equally pragmatic, solution may be found in the answer to the question: what is it that drives an inherently good human being to commit such inhuman and senseless acts of State terrorism, organizational terrorism or individual terrorism? In short, we must confront the causes of terrorism, honestly and without malice to anybody. Lesotho is deeply concerned by the fact that armed conflicts continue to cause suffering and hinder economic growth in Africa and elsewhere. However, we commend the United Nations for all its efforts aimed at the elimination of human suffering in armed conflict situations. When, in July 2003, the Assembly adopted its historic resolution 57/337, on the prevention of armed conflict, it recognized that multilateral cooperation, under the auspices of the United Nations, could be an effective means to prevent armed conflict and to address its root causes. Furthermore, it acknowledged the responsibility of the United Nations to stand up to the challenge of preventing, rather than just responding to, conflict. I should like to take this opportunity to express my delegationís appreciation to the Secretary-General, for the comprehensive report to be presented at this session on the implementation of that important resolution. For years now, the situation in Somalia has posed a threat to international peace and security. The swearing- in of Somalia's transitional parliament on 22 August 2004, in Nairobi, Kenya, paves the way for genuine recovery for Somalia. In that regard, my delegation compliments the Government of Kenya, the Inter- Governmental Authority on Development, the African Union and all other stakeholders for their efforts to bring about normalcy in Somalia. We must not allow the momentum to decrease, or the process to be derailed by those who seek to fuel hatred, division and the killing of the people of Somalia, including as a result of the smuggling of arms, which takes place despite the arms embargo. The humanitarian and security crises engulfing the Darfur region in the Sudan are a cause for serious concern to all of us. A lot has been said about that 12 grave situation, but not much has been done to contain the humanitarian and political crises. However, my delegation is hopeful that words will finally translate into action. We had hoped that, with the help of the African Union mediators, the representatives of the Government of the Sudan and the two rebel groups - the Sudan Liberation Army (SLA) and the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) - could be persuaded to sign and respect the protocol on security. We reiterate our call to all concerned parties to enter into negotiations. We wish to remind the Government of the Sudan that it is its primary responsibility, first and foremost, to protect the civilian life of its nationals. The Great Lakes region remains politically volatile. This situation has been exacerbated by the recent massacre of refugees from the Democratic Republic of the Congo at the Gatumba refugee camp in western Burundi. We hope that the fact that the Forces for National Liberation (FNL) have claimed responsibility for the killings would make investigations easier. The peace process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo remains elusive, at a time when we had thought that the gains that had been made from the Congolese dialogue, in South Africa, could be consolidated. We reiterate the call by the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for renewed commitment by the Transitional Government in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Security Council and the international community to work in full partnership to see the transitional process through to elections scheduled for 2005. It is worth mentioning that, at the regional level, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) heads of State or Government, at their recent summit in Mauritius, mandated the SADC Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation actively to remain seized of the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. My delegation has never condoned the killings of Israelis by the Palestinians or of Palestinians by the Israelis. We have always considered the root causes of the problem in the Middle East, which is the illegal occupation of Palestinian lands by Israel. That problem has been exacerbated by the construction by Israel of a separation wall in the occupied Palestinian territory. The International Court of Justice, the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, on 9 July 2004 rendered its advisory opinion that such construction was contrary to international law. We therefore appeal to Israel to implement the important resolution adopted by the General Assembly in view of the Courtís advisory opinion. Moreover, it is our submission that, unless and until the issue of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people is addressed vigorously, urgently and truthfully, peace and security will remain elusive in the Middle East. We should perhaps recall that, four years ago, we gathered in this very Hall with hope for, and anticipation of, a better life for all humankind in the twenty-first century, as we adopted the Millennium Declaration and the Millennium Development Goals. We set time-bound and measurable goals for combating, inter alia, poverty, hunger, disease, the spread of HIV and AIDS, illiteracy, environmental degradation and discrimination against women. Needless to say, we are today, as we were then, committed to the achievement of those goals. However, we did not anticipate that, as we approach the comprehensive review in 2005, the HIV/AIDS pandemic would have become the greatest threat to life itself, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Undoubtedly, the HIV/AIDS pandemic threatens to render futile and irrelevant all our efforts at the betterment of humankind, including the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. As early as the year 2000, Lesotho had declared HIV/AIDS a national disaster, and various measures were being taken at the national level to control and manage the pandemic. We have not been alone in that fight, fortunately. It is in that spirit that we wish to recognize and appreciate the dedication of Mr. Stephen Lewis, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for HIV/AIDS in Africa, and of Mr. James Morris, Special Envoy for Humanitarian Needs in Southern Africa. Through his advocacy, Mr. Lewis has helped Lesotho start a robust programme of antiretroviral treatment, while Mr. Morrisís initiatives have ensured food supply for vulnerable and orphaned children. Interventions of this nature give credence to the lofty declarations adopted at various international summits on the HIV/AIDS pandemic, as they complement and strengthen our own initiatives and limited resources. My delegation reiterates the call for increased support for the New Partnership for Africaís 13 Development (NEPAD), the framework for achieving the Millennium Development Goals in Africa. It is yet another mechanism that will enable African countries to fight the HIV/AIDS pandemic, to eradicate poverty and to reduce the high unemployment rate. In the same context, the Millennium Challenge Account is indeed a worthy and commendable initiative by the Government of the United States of America to launch the least developed countries on the road to sound and sustainable development. The prevailing situations in Western Sahara and in Cuba continue to be of major concern. My de1egation will ó because it must ó repeat the statement we have made on many previous occasions: that the people of Western Sahara have suffered long enough. We have therefore noted with appreciation the latest reaffirmation by the Security Council of its support for the 1991 settlement plan, allowing the nations of Western Sahara to determine the future of the disputed territory in a referendum. We hope that the referendum will be held soon, and urge that this be the case. By the same token, the unilateral economic embargo against Cuba is causing untold misery to the people of that country. My delegation believes that, when two countries are at war with each other, or when a country has been condemned by the international community for gross misconduct, an economic embargo could be justifiable. However, we are not aware that any war has been declared against Cuba, or that the Government of Cuba has compromised or broken international law. We therefore remain in the dark as to what might justify the victimization of millions of Cubans by the unilateral economic blockade, for we contend that it is the sovereign, democratic and, indeed, sacred right of the people of Cuba to determine the system of Government most appropriate for their country. Accordingly, we urge that normalcy be restored to Cuba through the removal of the economic blockade. The coming into operation of the International Criminal Court signifies, in our view, an end to impunity. We are elated that there now exists an international body that can take over when national courts are unable or unwilling to try perpetrators of the most egregious violations of human rights. We would indeed live in a safer world if State parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court adhered to it, and if the Court attained universal jurisdiction. My delegation encourages States that have not yet ratified the Statute to do so as a matter of urgency ó indeed, as a matter of common sense. We are pleased to note that the ICC has commenced investigations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda. We congratulate both these sister countries for their cooperation with the ICC. In order for the United Nations family to address todayís challenges effectively, the Organization must be reformed, with the Security Council being the central focus of that effort. The Security Council must reflect the reality of the international community in the twenty-first century. That must be done against the background of multilateralism, upon which international peace and security is premised. In that regard, allow me to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, for the hard work and commitment he displayed as the Chair of the Open-ended Working Group on the Reform of the Security Council. In conclusion, let me reiterate that it is only through solidarity, unity of purpose and honesty among us Member States that the United Nations will defeat in our time the greatest challenges ever to face humankind. Otherwise, as Secretary-General Kofi Annan stressed in his opening statement, history will indeed judge us harshly.It is an honour for me to address the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations on behalf of the European Union (EU). With its 25 member States, the European Union represents 13 per cent of the United Nations membership and accounts for almost 30 percent of the world’s economy. Our contributions to the United Nations go further; EU member States pay more than 36 per cent of the United Nations regular budget and about half of all voluntary contributions to the United Nations Funds and Programmes. They contribute more than 50,000 troops to United Nations-led and United Nations-authorized international peace missions. We in the EU are proud of our contribution to the United Nations and to international cooperation. But we are not complacent. We understand that our security and prosperity are inextricably linked to the fate of others, and we know that we cannot isolate ourselves from cross-border threats and challenges. We realize that climate change does not respect nationality, ethnicity or religion, that HIV/AIDS knows no borders and that terrorists kill indiscriminately. No nation can respond to these threats in isolation; the only way forward is through collective action. In a world of global threats, global markets and global media, our security and prosperity depend more 28 and more on an effective multilateral system. The search for a strong, rule-based international society is more imperative than ever. We welcome the Secretary-General’s call to work harder to strengthen the rule of law for all. His agenda is our agenda. That is why reform of the United Nations, with a view to making it stronger, more effective and more efficient, is a high priority for the European Union. The Union remains committed to multilateralism and a rule-based international order, with the United Nations at its core. What gives great strength to the United Nations is its legitimacy. It has no substitute in the international community. It is unique. But the Organization must adapt to changing circumstances. The reform efforts that have already been set in motion by the Secretary-General must be intensified and deepened with a view to making the United Nations stronger, more effective and more efficient. The EU looks forward to the report of the High- Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change and to the Secretary-General’s recommendations that will be submitted to the General Assembly. Next year, the General Assembly will meet at the highest level to review progress in honouring all of the commitments of the United Nations Millennium Declaration. The review must be comprehensive, balanced and effective. The summit must deal with the major, interlinked, concerns of peace, security, poverty and sustainable development. The recommendations in the report of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization are an important contribution to the review. We have committed ourselves to combating poverty and promoting sustainable development. The Millennium Development Goals must be achieved. Urgent action is called for. Both developing and developed countries must put in place a range of measures, as agreed at the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development including: good governance; expansion of trade opportunities, in particular for developing countries; and an increase in official development assistance. The European Union is committed to those objectives. It is very much on track for increasing its official development assistance (ODA) to 0.39 per cent of gross national product (GNP) in 2006 as part of a longer-term effort to raise its ODA contributions to 0.7 per cent of GNP. Combating HIV/AIDS must be an integral part of our global campaign against poverty. As one of the most devastating pandemics in human history, HIV/AIDS is literally a disease of mass destruction: a disease which strikes 10 people every minute. In Africa especially, AIDS is tearing the fabric of society apart. Fighting that disaster is a priority for us all. Prevention of HIV/AIDS is inextricably linked to sexual and reproductive health and rights. We wish to reaffirm our commitment to the agenda of the International Conference on Population and Development and will do so again at the tenth anniversary commemoration on 14 October. Reproductive health and rights are an essential part of development. One of the greatest threats to international peace and security today is the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. The international community must address that challenge effectively. The EU adopted a comprehensive and coherent strategy against the proliferation of those weapons last December, covering a wide spectrum of measures. The EU is guided by the conviction that a multilateral approach to security is the best way to maintain international order. That is why we are firmly committed to uphold, implement and strengthen multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation treaties and agreements. The multilateral treaty system provides the legal and normative basis for all non- proliferation efforts. International treaty regimes and export control arrangements are in place to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. Those instruments, however, have not succeeded in putting a complete stop to proliferation. Additional measures are necessary, in particular to combat the risk of terrorist organizations gaining access to those weapons and delivery systems. In that regard, the EU welcomes the adoption of Security Council resolution 1540 (2004), which is fully in line with the EU strategy. With others, the European Union will also explore the possibility of establishing a close relationship between the United Nations and the Hague International Code of Conduct against Ballistic Missile Proliferation. Terrorism is another threat that can be dealt with only by effective multilateralism and close 29 international cooperation. Terrorists’ capacity to strike is still very substantial, as shown by the heinous attacks in several countries over the past year. I wish to reiterate that the European Union utterly condemns all terrorist acts, irrespective of their alleged motivations, and to express our profound solidarity with the victims of such acts. The European Union welcomes the development of the Counter-Terrorism Executive Directorate, which will strengthen the ability of the United Nations to oversee implementation of anti-terrorism resolutions and conventions. Obviously, the United Nations can do its work well only if Member States honour their commitments and assume their responsibilities. Equipping the United Nations to deal with terrorism also demands readiness to act in situations in which States cannot or do not wish to implement their international obligations in the fight against terrorism. This brings me to the issue of human rights — another common concern. Human rights lie at the core of the work of the United Nations. The European Union fully agrees with Secretary-General Annan’s statement that terrorism must not be used as an excuse to trample on human rights. States must ensure that any measures taken to combat terrorism comply with their obligations under international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and humanitarian law. We must protect the universal values and fundamental freedoms whose enjoyment is seriously impaired by acts of terrorism. The European Union is a committed supporter of initiatives to improve the implementation of human rights obligations worldwide and at country level. The European Union recognizes the responsibility of the international community to protect mankind from genocide, war crimes and grave and massive violations of human rights. The European Union welcomes the introduction of a human rights-based approach in the work of all United Nations agencies and programmes. That will ensure that United Nations assistance activities contribute to achieving such rights for everyone everywhere. Our own initiatives in that area often complement and strengthen those initiated within the United Nations framework. We especially welcome the close cooperation between the European Union and the United Nations special mechanism in respect of children in armed conflict and human rights defenders. The valuable work being done by the United Nations, particularly by the Special Rapporteur on torture, in pursuit of the prevention and eradication of all forms of torture, is strongly recommended and supported by the EU. The European Union would also like to take this opportunity to reaffirm its opposition to the death penalty. The European Union stresses the importance of the International Criminal Court in putting an end to impunity and strengthening the rule of law throughout the world. It will pursue its efforts to ensure the widest possible ratification of, and accession to, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The world needs a United Nations that can intervene decisively to prevent, limit and put an end to military conflicts. An estimated 40 per cent of countries emerging from civil wars relapse into conflict within five years. The lesson — familiar but often forgotten — is that the United Nations system must be better attuned to how such conflicts can be prevented and peace preserved. No matter how difficult, preventing conflict and preserving a precarious peace is less costly than intervening in a full-blown conflict. The European Union is aware of its responsibility in that area and is increasing its capabilities to maintain its already significant contribution to conflict prevention, international crisis management and peacekeeping operations. It will also continue to assist other regional organizations to enhance their own crisis management capabilities. The United Nations must intensify its cooperation with those organizations, in part with a view to enhancing their capacity for crisis management, in accordance with Chapter VIII of the Charter. To that end, the European Union is working with the United Nations Secretariat to implement the Joint Declaration on United Nations-EU Cooperation in Crisis Management of September 2003. Several regional issues warrant special attention. The Middle East peace process must be put back on track. That means that the entire international community must back the road map — the only road to an agreed negotiated two-State solution. The European Union and its Quartet partners will remain engaged in the search for a settlement. The European Union thinks that the Assembly can make an important contribution to that objective by focusing on substantive issues in the peace process and adopting a pragmatic and constructive approach towards this problem. 30 The Security Council’s unanimous adoption of resolution 1546 (2004) marks the restoration of sovereignty to Iraq. The European Union wholeheartedly supports the political process and the new Iraqi Interim Government and calls on all Member States to do the same. It gives its full backing to the holding of democratic elections in January 2005. It is committed to unwavering support of the pivotal United Nations role in that country. The Iraqi people have suffered so much and deserve the chance to have a better life. Let us offer them that chance. In a similar vein, the process of securing stability, reconstruction and democratization in Afghanistan must remain an international priority. The Afghans are desperate for peace. They demand a say in their country’s future. Over 10 million Afghans, more than 40 per cent of them women, have registered to vote in the presidential elections on 9 October. There can be no better sign of their enthusiasm for democracy. The European Union will continue its political and financial assistance to Afghanistan and its people. Developments in Africa are cause for both optimism and concern. Increasingly, Africans are taking responsibility for solving the problems of their continent. The progress of the African Union in establishing its architecture for peace and security is a case in point. The European Union will use its African Peace Facility to help the African Union build capacity to engage in peace support and peacekeeping operations. The European Union will closely cooperate with the African Union, the United Nations, the Arab League and the United States with a view to harmonizing international efforts to contain and resolve the conflict in Darfur. It will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations, in particular by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. The European Union expresses its concern over the recent increase in tensions in the Great Lakes region and calls on all countries in the region to adhere to the Declaration of Principles on Good-Neighbourly Relations and Cooperation. It remains our conviction that the resolution of conflicts in the Great Lakes region requires a regional approach. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the European Union supports a more focused and robust mandate of the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) and related increased capabilities. It is actively examining different options for continued support to United Nations efforts to strengthen MONUC. Also, the European Union remains deeply concerned about the situation in Zimbabwe and urges that the Government of Zimbabwe establish the conditions for and hold free and fair elections in line with the Southern African Development Community’s (SADC) August 2004 electoral guidelines. Many courageous men and women are trying to make a difference under the blue flag of the United Nations. Last year’s bombing in Baghdad was a tragic demonstration of the fact that the work of the United Nations is often dangerous. The European Union supports the Secretary-General’s efforts to improve the safety and security of United Nations staff. We are keen to discuss his proposals. Through our policies, actions, and resources, we, the Member States, bear the responsibility of making it possible for the United Nations to go where it should. The European Union itself is an example of multilateralism at work. Conflicting interests and diverging views still exist within the European Union, as they do everywhere. But conflicts are resolved within the framework of common institutions and binding rules. Multilateralism works. A rule-based international order is possible. And necessary. The European Union will strive to achieve that goal everywhere.Mr. President, allow me first of all to congratulate you most warmly on your election to the important post of President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session and to wish you success in your very complex task. I also wish to express our gratitude to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte. In our troubled times, humankind is placing its most cherished hopes on the United Nations. Here at the rostrum of this Organization, I would like to express our deep satisfaction with the resolve with which the present session of the Assembly has embarked on a policy that is a quest for effective solutions to the key problems now facing the international community. After 11 September, the highest priority unquestionably has been given to fighting international terrorism, which has now acquired the nature of a direct war. This is an evil challenge to humankind. We sincerely grieve for the innocent victims of terrorist acts, wherever they may occur. Any victim evokes sympathy, but the massacre of children in Beslan is hideously evil. The time has come for terrorists to be called to account for their criminal acts. The “terrorist international” must be faced with a united anti-terrorist front on all continents, regions and countries. It is therein that I see the key to victory. The tone was set for this session by the statement made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan. With his customary perspicacity, he emphasized that the highest value is that of the supremacy of law in domestic and foreign affairs. Genuine interest in organizing collective action to address new challenges and threats was a leitmotif of the statements made from this rostrum by United States President George Bush, the heads of several States, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Russia, Sergei Lavrov, and other high- ranking representatives. Those statements were evidence of the growing confidence in our Organization and, I believe, represent a long-awaited rebuff to those who wish us ill and to sow doubts regarding the United Nations ability to resolve today’s pressing problems. A special feature of our forum today is the fact that, along with other extremely important objectives, it must serve as a preparatory stage for the sixtieth 2 anniversary session of the General Assembly. The international community has the right to expect that next year’s session will prove to be an historic event and establish new landmarks for United Nations activity. Recalling the ideals endorsed by the founders of the United Nations, and on the basis of contemporary requirements, I would propose that the anniversary session be called a summit of peace and economic and social progress. Turning now to the United Nations role in the life of my country, I should like to convey to the Organization and its specialized agencies our sincere gratitude for their support of our national efforts in all areas of State-building. My people will forever recall the decision taken at the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly in support of the 2,200th anniversary of Kyrgyz statehood. One axiom of Kyrgyz foreign policy is that small countries must have big friends. For us, the United Nations has always been such a tried and trusted friend. That is most appropriate for the development of our Republic on its path to democracy. It is well known that the electoral process is considered to be a litmus test for the level of democracy achieved in any given country. This year, with direct assistance from Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the implementation of a United Nations project in Kyrgyzstan has initiated improvements to the national electoral system with a view to ensuring that it meets international standards. That is particularly important given the election campaign now beginning to organs of power at every level in the Republic. In that context, United States President George Bush’s proposal that a fund for democracy be established within the United Nations is indeed a good one. Such a fund would substantially enhance the United Nations potential in that area. I should now like to turn to another problem. Two years ago, under United Nations auspices, the Global Mountain Summit was convened in our capital, Bishkek. In that context, too, we are most grateful for the Secretary-General’s assistance. The Bishkek Global Mountain Platform was drafted at the Summit, defining key objectives for the sustainable development of mountain countries. That important document was submitted to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. At this session, I wish also to draw the international community’s attention to the needs of the least developed mountain countries. The time has come to propose, on behalf of interested countries, the adoption at this session of a special resolution recommending forgiveness of the foreign debt of the least developed mountain countries. That would serve as a powerful stimulus to their comprehensive development and to overcoming poverty and would fully jibe with the objectives proclaimed in the Millennium Declaration. A draft resolution on that subject will be submitted to the General Assembly by the delegation of the Kyrgyz Republic and other delegations. In considering future prospects, I believe that the interests of all groups of countries are most fully reflected in the decisions of the Millennium Summit. I am gratified that a thorough and scrupulous analysis of the results of five years of implementation of the Millennium Declaration is being planned as a major element on the agenda of the sixtieth anniversary session of the General Assembly. I consider the war on poverty to be of great importance in that context. The link between poverty and international terrorism is indisputable. Those phenomena are organically intertwined. Unless we can overcome poverty and the mass despair and sense of hopelessness it entails, in particular among young people, our hopes for uprooting international terrorism may indeed prove futile. In seeking to eradicate poverty, Kyrgyzstan is relying above all on its own potential. We are most grateful in that respect for the assistance of the United Nations and the international community, expressed, inter alia, in the Monterrey Consensus. In that connection, we are hoping for increased assistance through the United States Millennium Challenge Account. In general, assistance for the development of poor countries could be considerably enhanced. I believe that this problem will also be duly reflected in the work of the present and anniversary sessions of the General Assembly. Earlier, I linked the eradication of poverty and the fight against international terrorism. Within the range of interlinked measures, however, a policy to eradicate international terrorism through the vigorous application of collective force is of unique significance. Within the framework of the anti-terrorist Coalition now active under United States auspices, Kyrgyzstan is making an important contribution to suppressing the ever-active hotbed of terrorism in Afghanistan. I am convinced 3 that the October elections in that country will be a very important factor in its democratic reorganization and have a positive impact on the situation in the region as a whole. In order to enhance its contribution to the international community’s war on international terrorism, Kyrgyzstan has allowed the deployment on its territory — within limited parameters, I would emphasize — of armed Russian and United States contingents. We are convinced that, in so doing, we are strengthening the interaction of those great Powers in today’s war on a common enemy. Our Kyrgyz land will continue to be a place for the great Powers to cooperate and to pool their efforts, rather than to compete. We support international action to eradicate the terrorist threat in Iraq. That has become the principal obstacle to the development of democracy and to ensuring peace in that country. We know from our own experience that this is a long and thorny path, but one that Iraq will have to take. The foundation for the international community’s actions must be the principle that, in assisting Afghanistan and Iraq in combating terrorism, establishing peace and building democracy, we are assisting ourselves. I believe that there is a need here to unmask any attempt to provide scholarly justification of any sort for international terrorism. I am referring here in particular to the concept of the clash of civilizations, which cannot be thought of as an innocent theoretical exercise. In that light, this summer, along the shores of our “blue pearl”, Lake Issyk-Kul, Kyrgyzstan and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization organized a conference entitled “Eurasia in the twenty-first century: Dialogue of cultures or a conflict of civilizations?” The idea of a conflict of civilizations was firmly condemned at the conference. For my part, I believe that the term “conflict of civilizations” should be erased from the global political lexicon as unfounded theoretically and harmful in practice. I note with satisfaction that, in his statement at this session, President Bush rejected the concept of a conflict of civilizations. The future belongs to the dialogue of cultures and civilizations. In conclusion, I wish to address the issue of United Nations reform. Kyrgyzstan supports proposals aimed at bringing the Organization ever more closely in line with the realities of the twenty-first century, particularly with respect to the role of the Security Council. In that regard, I believe that the United Nations at its anniversary session can and must decide to include Germany and Japan among the permanent members of the Council. We also support the expansion of the permanent and non-permanent categories of Council membership on the basis of the principle of equal geographic distribution. The enhancement of the United Nations peacekeeping potential is another positive concept. Kyrgyzstan will continue to respond positively to requests for its personnel in efforts to attain those goals. Lastly, Kyrgyzstan and other countries of Central Asia, in cooperation with Russia and China, intend to continue to support the international community’s efforts to counter international terrorism and to meet other global challenges and threats through active regional measures. Evidence of our resolve is the growing role of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Commonwealth of Independent States and the Collective Security Organization. From this high rostrum, I reaffirm that Kyrgyzstan, in a spirit of unwavering dedication to the principles and purposes of the United Nations, will continue to be a reliable link in the international community’s efforts to ensure peace, security and prosperity for all peoples of this planet.On behalf of the Government and the people of Costa Rica, may I convey to you, Mr. President, our warmest congratulations and best wishes on your assumption of the important post of President. The nineteenth century was, for vast sectors of mankind, the century of freedom. However, in many regions of the world, there were and continue to be, unacceptable levels of repression. The twentieth century was, for a good number of nations, the century of economic development. Nonetheless, the end of the twentieth century witnessed a prevalence of poverty, oppressive hunger and injustice, that have conspired together against aspirations for peace, security and justice. The twenty-first century should be devoted to making freedom universal and consolidating economic development, but above all, to creating an opportunity for social justice, international cooperation, equitable relations among nations and the eradication of poverty. Since the beginning of my administration and in keeping with that idea, I have advocated a globalization that is tempered by justice and focused on fulfilling the basic needs of all human beings and their right to happiness. At my inauguration in May 2002, I noted that just a few years earlier, when I began to speak of the need to globalize justice and to humanize globalization, some skeptics considered me a lonely voice crying out in a desert of fierce competition. Today we are many more and our voice is much more powerful in demanding that the process of globalization be made more humane. I am therefore very encouraged today by the fact that world opinion shares the same concerns which are reflected in the recommendations of the ILO report entitled “A fair globalization: Creating opportunities for all”. That report correctly states: “We believe the dominant perspective on globalization must shift more from a narrow preoccupation with markets to a broader preoccupation with people.” (Preface, p. vii) As greater integration develops between peoples and economies, it is urgent that we incorporate elements of a humanistic ethic into the globalization process, as an opportunity to spread the benefits of economic development and scientific and technological progress. These significant developments, the product of human wisdom and intelligence, are and must be enjoyed by all as part of the patrimony of all mankind. Today, this Organization unites 191 States with different identities and diverse histories, but with futures and presents that grow more interdependent with every passing day. In international forums, it has become commonplace to speak of the need to formulate inclusive national models of development. I believe that it is high time to speak of an inclusive global society. This General Assembly, which represents and expresses the common will of all 25 mankind, must play a central role in promoting a markedly humane globalization. Economic development is a force that must be directed and guided. The economy’s positive and powerful forces should not be left to the invisible hand determined, in most cases, by the obvious inequality among nations. In that regard, it is necessary to consider some concerning data regarding the global economy. The rate of growth of the global gross domestic product decreased progressively from an average of 3.6 per cent in the 1960s to an average of a 1.1 per cent in the 1990s. If we compare the per capita gross domestic products in constant dollars of the 20 poorest countries and the 20 richest, we note that, between 1960 and 1962, the former were almost 54 times poorer than the latter, while four decades later, in the period 2000-2002, they were 121 times poorer. The differences have been accentuated and the gap has broadened. These results show an inverse relationship to what we should be looking for if we really seek a peaceful, stable and fair world. In light of those realities, and in order to enable the 1.2 billion poorest people in the world to participate in the benefits of economic development, we must promote policies and strategies that create opportunities for all. To that end, it is necessary to make progress at the international level in the following two directions. First, we must agree on and strengthen rules and policies that provide a fair normative framework for globalization. Secondly, we should create or broaden the venues for the effective international negotiation, management and implementation of those agreements. Poverty, the lack of opportunities, deficient medical services and limited access to education, frequently accompanied by excessive expenditure in armaments, cause the suffering of most peoples. It is noteworthy that, in 2003, the world set a new record by devoting $956 billion to military expenditure. That represents a 17-fold increase in the amount of resources devoted worldwide to official development assistance and more than the sum of the foreign debt of the 64 countries with the lowest gross domestic product. Those numbers demonstrate that mankind has yet to understand that security results not from multiplying weapons, but from multiplying loaves of bread. Peace and security are built, above all, by combating injustice, satisfying basic needs, striving for common social goals and establishing fair and honest Government. As pointedly noted by Mr. Oscar Arias Sánchez, former President of Costa Rica and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, “the billions of dollars spent every year on weapons and on military contingents deprive the world’s poorest peoples of the chance to fulfil their basic needs”. In that regard, Costa Rica fully supports the draft framework convention on international arms transfers. That project, based on the obligations already undertaken by States, seeks to regulate the export of weapons and their marking and tracing in order to prevent arms transfers to terrorist and rebel groups and to those States that breach international humanitarian law or basic human rights principles. I respectfully urge all United Nations Member States to adopt that instrument of international law. I am convinced that it will contribute substantially to our struggle against the illicit traffic of weapons around the world. The aphorism that “the security of one is inseparable from the security of all” is growing truer every day. Global democratic governance requires strengthening both the United Nations and the competences of the General Assembly. Every State Member must have a voice and every people of the world must be represented, in conformity with the principles of equality and universality that govern the United Nations system. The Security Council must be reformed by enlarging its membership and making it more democratic. The maintenance of prerogatives for some States, to the detriment of the great majority of States Members, is not only antidemocratic, but contrary to the principle of sovereign equality among States enshrined in the San Francisco Charter itself. Committed to the principles of universality and democracy on which the United Nations is based, I renew Costa Rica’s longstanding call for the admission to the United Nations, in conditions of full legal equality, of the Republic of China on Taiwan, whose Government has often reiterated its willingness to assume the obligations imposed by the Charter. Allow me to refer to one of the worst scourges affecting peaceful relations among the nations: the threat of terrorism. The grave attacks committed all 26 over the world over the past few years — in particular, those committed in New York, Madrid and Beslan — prove how far terrorists are prepared to go. Costa Rica is fervently committed to the culture of life and, in consequence, our people and Government condemn all acts of terrorism. Even the loftiest ideals from the most legitimate sources become mere excuses and pretexts when they are taken over by terrorists. The first victims of the terrorists are the causes that they claim to defend. International society must firmly and resolutely confront all acts of terrorism, the painful and deadly consequences of which touch so many nations and innocent victims. It is essential to combat all forms of terrorism as well as its sources of financing and safe havens. It is equally essential to combat with the same resolve the poverty, inequality and hunger — both for food and for justice — that afflict many peoples. The coordination of the international struggle against terrorism must be assigned to an independent, professional and permanent organ located at the centre of this Organization. For that reason, we propose the creation of the post of United Nations high commissioner on terrorism that would assist the Security Council, the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council in the comprehensive fight against that threat and its causes. Only by creating such an organ, which would draw together resources and multiply efforts, will it be possible to respond adequately and jointly to the challenge posed by international terrorism. Today, global democratic governance has two fundamental pillars: the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court. The International Court of Justice, whose obligatory jurisdiction Costa Rica accepts without reservation, provides us with an impartial instance for the peaceful solution of controversies within the framework of the rule of law, thus avoiding haphazard or arbitrary interpretations of the legal norms. Nevertheless, we note with concern that very few States accept the obligatory jurisdiction of the Court without conditions. Most States have made reservations that exclude, in some cases, all the possible or even all the conceivable situations in which they would have to submit to the authority of the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. The International Criminal Court, whose establishment Costa Rica supported enthusiastically, provides us with an impartial organ to judge the most serious crimes against mankind. Ironically, while we all repudiate those crimes, only 94 States have ratified the Rome Statute and accepted the competence of the Court. I would also like to refer to the need to globalize criminal justice in order to prosecute those who, taking advantage of public office, rob their own peoples. How many generations will be condemned to pay the odious debts created by leaders irremediably sick of greed? We must never forget that corruption is the mother of poverty because it deprives the poorest peoples of the world of the resources necessary to finance their education, health, housing and social security. Mr. Verbeke (Belgium), Vice-President, took the Chair. It is time to give justice its rightful place. There should be no loopholes. Asylum and protection should not be given to those who ransack their own peoples. All safe havens of impunity must disappear. As we have a duty to protect the oppressed and persecuted, we also have a duty to protect those who do not yet have a voice. In particular, there is a pressing need to agree on a normative framework, internationally binding, to uphold human dignity from the moment of conception. It necessarily follows, therefore, that to defend life is to defend the very essence of man itself, all the promises, joys and hopes of the human being. I believe in science within ethical limits. As a medical doctor, I reject human cloning, while I firmly support research on adult stem cells, which does not present the same ethical and legal problems as does cloning. I invite you all to join us in our efforts to adopt an international convention to ban all forms of human cloning. We owe a great debt to nature. It is time to ensure that globalization be sustainable from an ecological point of view, in order to maintain the viability of human life on planet Earth. Notwithstanding the commitment of 120 nations, we have been unable to obtain the necessary support for the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol. In 2001, the High-Level Panel on Financing for Development proposed that the various international 27 entities on environment be consolidated into a single organization with a standing similar to that of the World Trade Organization or the International Monetary Fund. Regrettably, this proposal, as well as similar initiatives, has not yet enjoyed the necessary consensus for its approval. Undoubtedly, something must be done soon in this regard. We live in a globalized world. This is the logical outcome of the natural evolution of things and the progress of mankind, especially in the areas of telecommunication and information technology. This fact has brought nations closely together and, at the same time, it has created unavoidable multilateral responsibilities. Today, we live in a world that tries to follow not only the rules of the global market but also democratic principles, one that tries to uphold higher standards regarding the observance of human rights, while rejecting all forms of odious discrimination and showing concern for the environment. The observance of these minimum standards, adopted by the international society itself, should be the rule for measuring each State. Costa Rica would like to see the following principles recognized and practised by the whole international community: greater respect for human rights and labour guarantees, greater protection for the environment and greater social investment in exchange for less military expenditure. States should have greater opportunities to access international cooperation, credit and markets, while prices should be fair, reflecting real costs. It is not fair that poor countries, such as Costa Rica, which are making efforts in the areas of disarmament, respect for human rights, labour justice, protection of the environment, and greater social investment, be penalized by excluding them from the lists of beneficiaries of cooperation programmes and from systems of preferential treatment for the access of their products to the markets of developed countries. If we desire lasting peace and a secure world, we should give a humane dimension to relations among the various nations. Let us undertake together the challenge to overcome poverty, hunger, malnutrition and injustice, as we committed ourselves to do just yesterday, in the meeting convened by the President of Brazil, His Excellency Mr. Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. Let us make this task the centre of the international agenda for the short term. A better world is possible. It is in our hands to build it.On behalf of the delegation of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, I would like to thank Mr. Julian Hunte, President of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session, for his dedication and hard work and to welcome Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of State, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and la Francophonie of the Republic of Gabon, as President of the Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. On this occasion, I would also like to commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his tireless efforts to make the United Nations more effective, and especially for taking the initiative to establish a High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change to address United Nations reform and to propose recommendations to the General Assembly. The member States all look forward to seeing and considering those eagerly awaited recommendations. In 2000, the Millennium Declaration, a landmark document, manifested our strong will to face the most pressing challenges of our time. The Millennium Development Goals have become fundamental benchmarks in our efforts to achieve economic growth and sustainable development. Over the past four years, their implementation at the global and regional levels has proved to be successful in some countries, while many developing countries, especially the least developed, have had difficulties in attaining those goals due to unfavourable conditions. In that context, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic views the high- level plenary meeting to review the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, scheduled for next year, as a crucial opportunity for the international community to take stock of the progress made and to develop appropriate measures to secure the necessary financial resources for better achievements in the years ahead. The international situation continues to be marked by rapid and complex evolution. In that context, peace and international security must be preserved at all costs. The Non-Aligned Movement, at its ministerial conference held in Durban, South Africa, from 17 to 19 August 2004, reiterated its commitment to multilateralism in the maintenance of international peace and security. The strengthening and promotion of the multilateral process would certainly contribute to the world’s efforts effectively to address international challenges. Today, weapons of mass destruction — be they chemical, biological or nuclear — all pose major threats to peace and security at the regional and global levels and are far from being totally eliminated. 2 Therefore, we should all work collectively to ensure that those inhumane weapons disappear from the face of the Earth. Terrorism continues to bring disaster to humanity and endangers national and international security. The international community is urged to further cooperate at the national, regional and international levels in the fight against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. All acts of terrorism, wherever and by whomever committed, are criminal and unjustifiable. To that end, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic reaffirms its position to continue to cooperate with the international community based on the principles of the United Nations Charter, international law and relevant international conventions. The year 2005 will mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Asian-African Conference. The commemoration of this golden jubilee will be a crucial opportunity to solemnly reaffirm the validity of the core principles of the Bandung spirit, which are solidarity, friendship and cooperation, and which continue to serve as an effective foundation for resolving global problems and promoting good relations among the countries and the peoples of the world. Recently, the increasingly deteriorating security situation in Iraq has been cause for concern. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic expresses the hope that a peaceful solution can be found to achieve peace and stability and to ensure the well-being of the Iraqi people. We commend the efforts being made to find a peaceful solution to the Korean Peninsular issue through the convening of three rounds of six-party talks. We hope that all parties concerned will pursue those talks in order to achieve permanent peace and security in the Korean Peninsula, thus creating favourable conditions for peaceful reunification. Violence continues unabated in the occupied Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem. Such violence will hurt the peace efforts in the Middle East and prolong the suffering of the peoples of the region. Thus, we urge the parties concerned to engage in serious dialogue, settle their conflict and realize the vision of two States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace within secure and recognized borders, in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolutions. Last month, at its Durban Ministerial Conference, the Non-Aligned Movement called once again upon the Government of the United States to put an end to the economic, financial and trade embargo against Cuba. That unilateral embargo, which has caused immense material losses and economic damage to the people of Cuba, runs counter to the United Nations Charter and international law. It is time that the embargo was lifted. Capitalizing on the momentum achieved at the historic international ministerial conference at Almaty, Kazakhstan, to address the special needs of landlocked developing countries (LLDCs), the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, as Chairman of the Group of LLDCs, has spared no efforts to bring benefits to these vulnerable developing countries. We would like to convey our appreciation to eleventh session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which recognized LLDCs as small and vulnerable economies. We hope that such special recognition will be granted by other international forums and organizations, in particular the World Trade Organization, as gaining access to international markets for products of interest to our countries will significantly help to overcome our geographical handicap as landlocked States. The global illicit drug problem and related crime remain an issue of concern to the world community. Owing to its cross-border and international nature, this problem can be dealt with effectively only through international cooperation. In an effort to contribute to the fight against this scourge, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic continues to build and intensify cooperation at the national, regional and international levels. As a result, opium cultivation in our country declined significantly from 2003 to 2004, and we will strive to eliminate opium cultivation by 2005. I take this opportunity to appeal to the international community to continue to grant financial support to assist our country in addressing a number of challenges, namely the treatment of opium addicts, the creation of new and sustainable employment and the provision of necessary infrastructures to prevent former opium poppy growers from replanting. Over the past year, the Lao people of all ethnic origins, all walks of life and all religions have been living in solidarity and harmony. Social and political stability across the country remained solid. The economy enjoyed a sustained growth rate of 6.5 per cent. The poverty of the people has been gradually 3 reduced, and external relations of cooperation have been broadened extensively. Later this year, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic will be hosting the 10th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and other related summits with ASEAN dialogue partners. On that occasion, a number of important documents will be adopted, aiming to accelerate regional integration and the establishment of the ASEAN community by 2020. In its nearly 60 years of existence, the United Nations, has played its role in promoting international peace and security and socio-economic development. It has had much success. As we enter the twenty-first century, our world today is still confronted with numerous complex problems including wars, armed conflicts, terrorism, global crime, human trafficking, global warming, environmental degradation, HIV/ AIDS and other diseases and the marginalization of developing countries, in particular the three most vulnerable groups among them: the least developed countries, the landlocked developing countries and the small island developing States. The international community should cooperate and work collectively through the United Nations to address the global challenges of our time. The United Nations needs to be reformed if the Organization is to be more effective and more democratic. The General Assembly should also have an important and more active role to play in the management of world affairs. With respect to the Security Council, we wish to reaffirm the position of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, first expressed many years ago, that there should be an increase in the number of permanent and non-permanent members from the developed and developing countries, in accordance with the principle of equitable geographical distribution and taking into account the relative importance of the various countries. In the same context, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic supports Japan, Germany and India as permanent members in a new, expanded Security Council. All this would greatly contribute to achieving our ultimate goal of making the United Nations, our universal Organization, an organization that can gain the trust and the confidence of Member States.My delegation joins in the many laudatory and congratulatory expressions addressed to you, Mr. Ping, as you assume the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. Additionally, we pay tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, whose presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session was virile, dynamic and constructive, imbued, as he was, with the wisdom of Solomon, the patience of Job and the vision of Daniel. Grenada’s statement is made from the profound depths of the human heart. The Prime Minister of Grenada, The Right Honourable Keith Mitchell, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, The Honourable Elvin Nimrod, whose unavoidable absence can be understood, have asked me to speak on their behalf. The Assembly will, I hope, understand why Grenada’s statement in this general debate will focus in large measure on the natural disaster that has befallen the State of Grenada, Carriacou and Petite Martinique. First, Grenada expresses grateful appreciation for the outpouring of sympathy and assistance from the many countries that have already taken the rostrum — especially from the Caribbean leaders who have seen and described to the Assembly, in chilling and heart- rending detail, the devastation of the tri-island State of Grenada, Carriacou and Petite Martinique caused by jurricane Ivan “the Terrible”. Therefore, there is no need for me to multiply my words except to say that the fickle finger of fate seemed to have conspired with nature — exceedingly benevolent at times, but sometimes equally destructive. This time, it released its full fury on a vulnerable small island developing State, reducing it to rubble. After hurricane Ivan’s rage had subsided, there was complete destruction of the infrastructure, and it seemed as if a Stygian darkness had descended on the land. However, the resilience of our people and the emerging solidarity give us hope that, with the assistance of the international community, Grenada — like the mythological phoenix — will rise from the ashes brought about by the hurricane. Who can help us pick up the pieces of a shattered country with a dislocated economy, whose precipitous decline has brought it to rock bottom? An assessment of the destruction reveals that it would take $2 billion to rebuild the State of Grenada, Carriacou and Petite Martinique. That is a Herculean task far beyond our means. The call, therefore, is made to the international community: “Come down to Macedonia and help us”. We plead with the United Nations, its agencies the United Nations Development Programme, UNICEF, UNESCO, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, individual countries, individual permanent representatives, non-governmental organizations and friends to help Grenada help itself. In that connection, my delegation recalls the words of the seventeenth-century English clergyman and poet John Donne: “No man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main.” Thus, what happens to each of us affects all of us. Today, that is eminently borne out by the interconnectivity and interdependence of societies, aided by the information and communication technology revolution. Consequently, we speak today about a world shared by all instead of a world divided. Giving, caring and sharing should therefore be a reality, not just a concept. Forgiving Grenada’s debt and cancelling its obligations to international organizations and institutions will give Grenada a breathing spell. Help in 17 that regard will be formally requested through official channels and will free Grenada of its many obligations. The dire problems of my country notwithstanding, we cannot fail to touch upon the world situation, in which the geopolitical centre of gravity continues to swing from the Israeli-Palestinian struggle to Iraq and Afghanistan. The situation in those centres of conflict is fanned further by the heinous and atrocious crime of terrorism, which is fast becoming a way of life. In that regard, my delegation recalls an ancient law: hatreds never cease by hatreds; it is by love alone that they cease. It will be recalled that, from this rostrum, I told my colleagues that I would demit office at the end of this month, having attained the ripe old age of 84 years and having served my country in this honourable body for almost 13 years. Today, I want to recant with regard to that diplomatic note on my premature departure and to tell the Assembly that my Government has asked me to continue. Therefore, refreshed in body and mind, confident in faith and joyful in hope, I will continue to expect the generous assistance of my colleagues. With respect to my age, I should like to quote Sir Francis Bacon, who wrote several centuries ago that age appears to be best in four things: old wood best to burn, old wine to drink, old friends to trust and old authors to read. Colleagues, I treasure your friendship and ask for your support on behalf of my country. Let me conclude with this patriotic verse: To all the world I give my hand, My heart I give my native land; I seek her good, her glory. I honour every nation’s name, Respect their fortune and their fame; But I love the land that bore me! Love the land that bore me! Please allow me an addendum to my statement. I wish to announce that tomorrow, Friday, at 10.30 a.m. in the Economic and Social Council Chamber, the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the United Nations Development Programme will make a flash appeal for assistance to Grenada and Haiti.It is with great pleasure that I bring warm greetings from the Government and people of Kiribati on whose behalf I have the honour to address the Assembly today. Before I begin, I would like to extend our congratulations to Mr. Jean Ping on his election to the presidency of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We have every confidence in his able leadership to guide the work of the Assembly and to deliver conclusive outcomes. He has our full support and cooperation in carrying out his work. I wish also to thank the President’s predecessor for the excellent work he has done in steering the work of the Assembly during the past year. My congratulations also go to the Secretary-General for his sterling leadership of our Organization during these trying times and for rising commendably to the challenge. We gather again this year amidst the reality of daunting challenges that continue to confront us as individual nations and as a global community. The ongoing conflicts in Iraq and other parts of the world, the scourge of terrorism and the existence of nuclear arsenals, accelerated environmental degradation and the threat of global warming and sea-level rise, hunger and poverty, the HIV/AIDS pandemic and other non- communicable diseases, the marginalization of the least developed countries within the global economy and underdevelopment, all continue to pose major challenges that our Organization must address today. Those challenges cast a dark shadow over the commitments made by world leaders at the Millennium Summit held here in New York four years ago, pledging to work collectively to maintain peace and security, to eliminate poverty and to promote development for the benefit of all mankind in the new millennium. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons continue to threaten international security. We must be unified in our approach and address those challenges effectively by strengthening multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation treaties and agreements and through closer regional and international cooperation. Kiribati supports all non-proliferation efforts and in that respect is party to, among others, the Treaty on the 2 Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and the Chemical Weapons Convention. We commend and support the work of the international community and efforts taken at the national, regional and international levels to respond to the challenges of terrorism, recognizing the need for international solidarity in addressing that increasing global threat. Kiribati is committed to the global fight against terrorism. Terrorism knows no boundaries and we cannot claim immunity from it. Indeed, as a small island developing State we have very little capacity to develop any effective countermeasures and are therefore especially vulnerable to terrorism. We acknowledge the importance of complying with United Nations resolutions and international security arrangements that have been adopted in the fight against terrorism. While we cannot afford to be complacent in our efforts in that regard, it must be recognized that the requirements for compliance with those resolutions and arrangements do pose enormous challenges for countries such as Kiribati. Our limited resources and technical capacity are already committed to providing for the basic and essential social and economic needs of our rapidly growing population, thus placing severe constraints on our ability to make progress in compliance. I would like to note, however, that, with technical assistance from our development partners, we have made progress in enacting important legislation relating to terrorism and transnational crime. We expect to make further progress on compliance with the counter-terrorism requirements shortly. The progress made so far has revolved primarily around the introduction of legislation. We recognize that this is just the beginning of the process. The implementation and enforcement of the legislation enacted will pose an immense challenge. In this respect, we will continue to count on the assistance and support of the international community. We note with deep regret and concern the loss of life and devastation to property caused by the recent series of hurricanes affecting the Caribbean and the Atlantic coast of the United States. We offer our deep sympathy to those affected by those natural disasters. The adverse impact of climate change and sea- level rise is, indeed, a critical security issue for the global community in this new millennium, especially for low-lying island States like Kiribati. That issue must take centre stage with other international security issues. We urge the international community to agree on a unified global response in order to better protect the environment, in the same way that the international community is being encouraged to respond to terrorism and other threats to global security. Our inability as a global community to agree on a unified stand on climate change and sea-level rise is very disappointing indeed, and we deplore the notion that economic growth must take precedence over environmental issues at any cost. Our very existence as a State — indeed, the existence all States similar to Kiribati — is at stake if such thinking continues to prevail. I would like at this juncture to express our gratitude to the many countries that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol and to appeal to those that have not to do so as a matter of urgency. We have demonstrated remarkable solidarity in the fight against global terrorism. Can we not demonstrate the same solidarity in the fight against climate change and sea-level rise? Regional cooperation has been a very effective mechanism in addressing the many challenges faced by countries in our region. Regional cooperation has enabled many Pacific countries to meet some of the counter-terrorism requirements. Regional cooperation has also enabled us to effectively address emerging issues confronting our region; the outstanding success of the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands is a clear demonstration of that. We in the Pacific are confident of our ability to steer a course for the future. We have approved work to commence on a Pacific plan that will promote collective action in the areas of security, good governance, economic growth and sustainable development. We envisage that the Pacific plan will result in the delivery of tangible benefits to our respective peoples and communities. We recognize the need for, and welcome, strengthened cooperation and the development of closer linkages and partnerships between the United Nations and its specialized agencies and other organizations, including the Pacific Islands Forum. Such linkages and partnerships can only result in the more effective, coordinated and harmonized delivery of assistance to member countries. Making progress with regard to the development aspirations of our peoples is a high — if not the highest — priority for many of us who are here today. Our national policy objective is to achieve the 3 equitable distribution of development benefits to all our peoples, based on the principles of good governance. We are committed to the Millennium Declaration and are on track in our national efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. The Goals have been integrated and mainstreamed into our national development strategy. We are committed to pursuing those goals as the basis of sustainable development. In this connection, I would like to express our appreciation to all our development partners, who, over the years, have contributed meaningfully to the realization of our development aspirations. While we are grateful for the assistance extended by our development partners, there is scope for us to achieve more for our peoples — and to do so without development assistance. Kiribati has a large exclusive economic zone that has an abundant fisheries resource. Those resources are presently being harvested by vessels from distant-water fishing nations under license arrangements. However, the return from these licensing arrangements is negligible, at only around 5 per cent of the landed value of the catch. Naturally, we would like to see greater returns from that resource. Our ability to achieve sustainable economic development depends on it. Accordingly, we urge the flag States of those fishing interests to encourage their industries to explore the mutual benefits to be gained from collaboration with resource owners in establishing on-shore facilities that will add value to the commodity. We believe that such a model will also result in easing the pressure on fish stocks and ensure conservation of the resource for the sustainable benefit of mankind. The entry into force in June this year of the Western and Central Pacific Tuna Convention represents a major development in the management of the western and central Pacific tuna fishery. In this age of rapid globalization, advances in information technology and trade liberalization, it is regrettable that, while some are reaping the full benefits of those advances and developments, significantly more remain on the fringes. The reality is that a large proportion of the world’s population, most of whom live in developing countries, continue to live in poverty and are marginalized in trading arrangements and market access opportunities. The promise of globalization and open trading as a positive force for economic growth, and social progress continues to elude the many. Much work needs to be done to ensure that the many also enjoy the benefits of globalization. Kiribati supports the findings of the report of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization. We urge that the findings of the report be taken into consideration and incorporated into the work of the Assembly, especially for the 2005 high- level review of the outcome of the Millennium Summit. We welcome the United Nations support for the convening, early next year in Mauritius, of the International Meeting for the 10-Year Review of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Like other small island developing States, we attach great importance to that review. With the continued support and commitment of our development partners to the process, we can be assured of important outcomes that will go a long way in making a real difference to the quality of life for our peoples. We share the concerns of the international community about the spread of HIV/AIDS and its devastating impact as both a health crisis and a development concern. We welcome the recent developments in the search for affordable drugs for HIV/AIDS victims in developing countries. We encourage greater collaboration on HIV/AIDS research and the mobilization of resources for prevention activities and for better medical care for affected patients. We believe in the continuing relevance and importance of the role of the United Nations and its ability to respond to the challenges of our contemporary world. In this regard, Kiribati welcomes and fully supports the efforts to reform this Organization to enable it to better respond to the challenges of this era. Given the crucial role of the Security Council in the promotion of international peace and security and the importance we attach to that issue, we see the necessity for Security Council reform, including the expansion of both the permanent and non-permanent membership of the Council. Expansion is required to better reflect the realities of our world today. We note that some countries, including Japan, have consistently committed substantial resources towards the maintenance of global peace and security, and we believe that they should be accorded permanent membership on the Security Council. 4 We attach great importance to our membership in this noble Organization, and we reaffirm our commitment to upholding the noble values and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The Charter epitomizes our hope for achieving justice and equality and the safeguarding and promotion of fundamental human rights of all peoples. Within that context, we believe that the exclusionary principles applied to Taiwan in its bid for United Nations membership go against the very values and objectives of the Charter that we all strive to uphold. In this era of tension and conflict we should discard the present exclusionary practices and adopt a more embracing environment where all countries willing and able to contribute to the international community’s efforts to promote world peace and stability are welcomed as equal partners. Taiwan has made and continues to make notable contributions to the development of many developing countries and has the capacity to contribute constructively to the good work of the United Nations. It is therefore regrettable that the desire of the 23 million people of Taiwan to again become a part of that global community of nations continues to be rejected. The challenges that confront us at this point in time are indeed daunting, but they are not insurmountable. With renewed commitments and with a common resolve to work in close cooperation and in support of each other, we can succeed in creating a more secure, a more prosperous and a more just world for all in this millennium.Today, the international community is striving to meet challenges that the founders of the United Nations could not have envisioned sixty years ago. The fight against terrorism and efforts to ensure non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are just a few examples of those challenges. Japan has always pursued international cooperation centring on the United Nations. As the international community faces new realities, the United Nations must adapt and address them. The United Nations was created to bring about a peaceful, prosperous, and just world. To that end, Member States have united their strengths to promote international cooperation. Convinced that it can contribute to creating a better world through its own capabilities, Japan has endeavoured steadfastly to fulfil its role as a responsible United Nations Member. Our activities in Iraq and Afghanistan offer excellent examples. In Iraq, based on the relevant Security Council resolutions, Japan has joined international efforts to assist in the Iraqi people's own struggle towards a democratic and prosperous nation. Japan has been cooperating with the Iraqi people to help them improve their daily life and rebuild the foundation of their public life. The humanitarian and reconstruction activities of Japanís Self-Defence Forces and its financial assistance of $5 billion are working in tandem to that end. In order to promote international solidarity, Japan will host the third Meeting of the Donorsí Committee of the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq next month. In Afghanistan, Japan has from the very beginning taken the lead in assisting national reconstruction efforts. Japan hosted the International Conference on Reconstruction Assistance to Afghanistan in January 2002. Japan has been actively promoting Afghan efforts for disarmament, demobilization and reintegration. The Afghan people are working hard to prepare for presidential as well as parliamentary elections. Those elections are the most 32 important milestones for a new, democratic Afghanistan. The international community and the United Nations must stand by the Afghan and Iraqi peoples in their strenuous efforts to rebuild their countries. Weapons of mass destruction, missiles and terrorism threaten international security in todayís world. Japan is the only country ever to have suffered nuclear devastation. As such, Japan has been at the forefront in promoting nuclear disarmament and non- proliferation. Japan hopes to achieve a peaceful and safe world free of nuclear weapons. Furthermore, Japan has collaborated with other countries to prevent States of concern and non-State actors from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. We must allow no room for terrorism to prevail. In the fight against terrorism, Japan is doing its utmost to strengthen domestic legislation and related measures, and will continue to cooperate with other countries. The nuclear and missile issues on the Korean peninsula present a serious challenge to the peace and stability of north-east Asia and to the international community as a whole. Japan is determined to continue to seek a comprehensive resolution of the nuclear and missile issues and the abduction issue in line with the Pyongyang Declaration. The six-party talks must go forward. The benefit that the Democratic Peopleís Republic of Korea would receive by resolving those issues would be substantial. There is no benefit for it in continuing to pursue its nuclear programme. After the Second World War, Japan experienced a dramatic economic recovery, with the help of the international community. On the basis of our own experience, we are keenly aware that, in promoting international cooperation, self-help efforts are essential to overcoming difficulties and achieving a prosperous society. Japanís official development assistance therefore has been based on the principles of ownership and partnership. Environmental conservation must also proceed hand in hand with economic development. Japan has taken the lead in global efforts in such areas as climate change and environmental protection. In addressing development challenges, including the Millennium Development Goals, Japan will move forward, making further efforts for the strategic and effective use of official development assistance, bearing those principles in mind. The protection and empowerment of individuals and communities is the foundation of international peace and security. That is why Japan is advocating the concept of human security. Based upon that idea, Japan is making efforts to realize a seamless transition from humanitarian assistance to reconstruction support in countries such as Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and Timor-Leste. It is my strong belief that there can be no stability and prosperity in the world unless Africaís issues are resolved. Japan initiated the process of the Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD) in 1993. Last year, Japan organized TICAD III, with the participation of 89 countries and 47 international organizations. African countries are now promoting regional collaboration through the African Union and working to implement the New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD). The collaboration between TICAD and NEPAD is significant, because both processes are grounded in the principles of ownership and partnership. A stable and prosperous Africa depends upon the promotion of trade and investment, together with official development assistance. This autumn, Japan will host the TICAD Asia-Africa Trade and Investment Conference. Today, in Africa, we are witnessing the unfolding of another humanitarian crisis. We share the international communityís grave concern over Darfur. Japan has decided to provide humanitarian assistance of $21 million. In addition, Japan intends to provide in- kind assistance to the Sudanese refugees in Chad. In East Asia, there has been remarkable economic development. Japan has been working with the countries in the region to build solid foundations for their own efforts towards economic development. In that region, active efforts are also under way to foster community-building. Building upon the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Plus Three, I have advocated the idea of an East Asia community. This year, Japan is a candidate for non-permanent membership on the Security Council. Japan, if elected, will redouble its efforts to play a constructive and innovative role in the Council, based on its global contributions. 33 As the international community rises to meet the challenges we face in todayís world, the United Nations must not be left on the sidelines. We need a strong and effective United Nations. Indeed, we must create a new United Nations for the new era. I applaud the timely initiative by the Secretary-General of establishing the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. I trust that the Panel will present the Secretary-General with a bold and ambitious plan for reforming the United Nations. Peace and security, and economic and social issues are increasingly intertwined. The response of the United Nations must be coordinated and comprehensive. United Nations agencies and organs must be effective and efficient. Changes are needed throughout the United Nations system. The reform of the Security Council must be at the core of those changes. In recent years, the role of the Security Council has expanded dramatically in scope and nature. The Security Council must fulfil its expanded role, with the maximum cooperation and participation of the international community. To that end, the Security Council must improve its representation to better reflect today's world. In addition, the Council must be provided with adequate resources to address challenges effectively. Countries with the will and the resources to play a major role in international peace and security must always take part in the Councilís decision-making process. The Security Council therefore needs to be expanded, both in its permanent and non-permanent categories, adding new members from both developing and developed countries. The universal purpose of the United Nations ó our common goal - is to maintain international peace and security. In striving towards that goal, each Member State must fulfil its role, commensurate with its own capabilities. It is our conviction that peace cannot be achieved through force alone. On the basis of that conviction, Japan has played an active and distinctive role. Japan has made considerable resources available for United Nations peacekeeping operations, as well as for reconstruction efforts to assist in the consolidation of peace. Japanís Self-Defense Forces have conducted humanitarian and reconstruction activities in such areas as Timor-Leste and Iraq. Such global contributions to peace are rooted in the fundamental, cherished beliefs of the Japanese people, who have been seeking an honoured place in an international community that strives for peace and prosperity. Those contributions are, I believe, greatly appreciated by the international community. Recent United Nations peace operations show that there are many dimensions to the achievement and consolidation of peace. Making peace a reality requires comprehensive efforts, ranging from peace-building to nation-building. Japan's role has thus become increasingly vital to the maintenance of international peace and security, which is precisely the mandate of the Security Council. We believe that the role that Japan has played provides a solid basis for its assumption of permanent membership of the Security Council. In order to better reflect today's world, it is also necessary to remove the 'enemy State' clauses from the Charter, as the General Assembly has already recognized those provisions to be obsolete. The scale of assessments for Member States needs to be more balanced. Next year, the United Nations will celebrate its sixtieth anniversary. We will hold a high-level plenary meeting to review progress on all of the commitments in the Millennium Declaration. Development, global security and United Nations reform are all high on the agenda. Changes are needed on all fronts. The time has come to make a historic decision to reform the United Nations, and the Security Council in particular. Time is limited. Our future - the future of the United Nations - is at stake. I would like to call upon the members of this body to work together and take a bold step towards the creation of a new United Nations for the new era.It is my honour to congratulate you, Sir, on behalf of the Prime Minister, the Government and the people of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, of our sister Caribbean State of Saint Lucia, for his outstanding leadership during the fifty-eighth session. His legacy is one of which we in the Caribbean can be proud, and we wish him well in his future endeavours. I would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary- General for his stalwart defence of multilateralism and the rule of law. Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan, and Jeanne have ravaged the Caribbean islands and parts of the United States. Lives were lost in Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Grenada, Jamaica, Cuba, the United States and the Bahamas. The damage to homes and infrastructure and the interruption to normal life and commerce compel us to stress the need for immediate and dramatic measures to ensure reconstruction and rehabilitation. What has been on offer to the region so far is woefully inadequate. Our country’s northern islands — Grand Bahama and Abaco — received double hits. First, Hurricane Frances struck on 13 September, leaving hundreds without food, water, homes and power. Then came Jeanne, two weeks later, over the same islands that were hit by Frances, further exacerbating the problems. The Bahamas has many islands and, fortunately for us, tourism facilities remain open in the capital, Nassau, and facilities on other islands in the chain will be operational shortly. That, unfortunately, will not be the case in Grenada. Regional heads have called for an international donor conference to meet the needs of all countries adversely affected by the hurricanes. The Bahamas supports such a conference. We hope that, as a result of that conference, if not before, there will be a 6 moratorium on Grenada’s debt repayment. We also recommend that a regional disaster relief fund be established to support the reconstruction effort. The word “hurricane” comes from a word first used by the indigenous people of the Caribbean region, the Arawaks. That pre-Columbian civilization must have seen the phenomenon so often that it invented the word for it. That means it has been around for some time, and it is likely to be with us for some time to come. It behooves us, therefore, to understand the phenomenon that we are facing, including its connection — if any — to climate change, which low- lying States have been warning about for years. These facts also demand that our own societies should better plan for the eventualities that have been, and that we know are going to continue to be, a part of our lives. We cannot let lack of planning be a possible cause of the undermining of our sovereignty in this way. The world is soon wary and weary; the phenomenon of donor fatigue sets in. And we lose our dignity if we cannot be seen to help ourselves. But if, as the scientific evidence suggests, the hurricanes that we now experience are related to climate change, it is clear that we cannot defend ourselves alone. A major shift on the part of the most active polluting countries is required. They must shift gears if the people in small island developing States are going to survive. It is a moral imperative for them to shift gears. In this regard, the Bahamas welcomes the preliminary moves by the Government of Britain, as well as the Governments of Japan and of Russia, towards putting climate change closer to the top of the agenda. We urge them to continue to use their influence on their friends to cause a major shift in attitude. The implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, adopted at the Global Conference in Barbados in 1994, becomes even more urgent. The follow-up meeting on this issue in Mauritius in January 2005 now takes on even greater significance. In this context, I would also like to highlight the region’s efforts to designate the Caribbean Sea as a special area in the context of sustainable development. We also reiterate our grave concern about the serious threat posed to the security and economic development of Caribbean countries by the trans-shipment of nuclear waste through the Caribbean Sea. We continue to call on States involved in trans-shipment to desist from that practice. The scenes of death and destruction as a result of the hurricane that affected Haiti in recent days reminded us of the political turmoil that that country has endured during the past year. The Bahamas extends its deepest condolences to the Haitian nation for the tremendous and sad loss of life. The year, which began with so much hope with the celebration of the deeds of Toussaint L’Ouverture and the two hundredth anniversary of independence on 1 January, fell quickly into the abyss of despair on the fateful evenings of 28 and 29 February. No one will ever know what truly happened on that night as an elected President left his country with armed rebels nipping at his heels, but it filled the entire Caribbean with sadness. It raised the spectre of mistrust of friends. That feeling has still not died, but we must soldier on if we are to help the people of Haiti achieve democracy, economic uplift and a just and fair society. The Bahamas stands ready to do what it can to assist the people of Haiti in these developments. Haiti sits 90 miles from our southern shores, and each year thousands of migrants looking for a better way of life seek to enter the Bahamas illegally from Haiti. We have practical reasons, therefore, to ensure that justice and democracy prevail in Haiti. We echo the call of all countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) for the return to democratic order in Haiti, and we pledge to help. We regret the failure of the Security Council to act in a timely fashion when Haiti’s friends begged for the authority to intervene or to authorize an intervention. Perhaps that failure heralds the need for the Council’s reform. The Bahamas supports such reform efforts and awaits the report of the High-Level Panel appointed by the Secretary-General. But the United Nations must never stop trying to address the issues that face Haiti, because there is a moral imperative to eliminate hunger, poverty, disease and discrimination. In this regard, we welcome the work of President Lula da Silva of Brazil and President Chirac of France, Pope John Paul and other world leaders in seeking to ensure that the moral imperatives to which we have referred are placed at the forefront of the world’s agenda. We must never forget what Haiti has done for our region and for the world. 7 While the fight against those who would subvert our democratic values by attacks on civilian and military targets remains high on our agenda, we must not allow the drums of war to drown out the calls of the world’s poor and disenfranchized. In 2000, we gave ourselves a set of goals with respect to development with a human face, and we must do all that we can to achieve them. The Bahamas has committed itself to the fight. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the survivors of all who have lost their lives in such senseless attacks, particularly in the United States, Kenya, Spain, Tanzania and Indonesia. But we also admonish all States that terrorism cannot be an excuse to limit freedom and to dispense with the very liberties that we are trying to defend and that form the foundations of free and democratic societies. All States ought to act with caution in putting in place rules and regulations for travel, lest the denial of those rights cannot be defended by logic or objectivity. That is especially so where we note that developed countries argue in favour of free trade and globalization but deny the benefits of that trade to legitimate travellers by administrative discrimination and bureaucratic procedures and delay. The appeal therefore is to bring some sense of balance, before we lose the very thing we seek to save. As part of this overall process of reflection, my delegation welcomes the high-level reviews planned for 2005 of our commitments with respect to social development and the advancement of women. We must ensure that we undertake an unflinching examination of the progress made in achieving the priority goals of the Copenhagen Programme of Action and the Beijing Platform for Action to determine how far we have come and what remains to be done. It is critical that the outcomes of the respective appraisals will acknowledge the gaps in implementation and allow States and the international community as a whole to move forward and achieve the timely and effective implementation of the commitments undertaken at Copenhagen, Beijing and beyond. We must also make certain that the results of our deliberations feed constructively and synergistically into the high-level event in September 2005, so as to ensure that no ground is left uncovered. HIV/AIDS continues to threaten to undermine decades and centuries of progress in health care and in developing healthy populations that facilitate economic growth throughout the world. The Bahamas is a leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean region. We urge the continued and unrelenting fight against the disease, to rescue the world’s developing nations from the clutches of that scourge. It must take all of the political will and financial power of the world’s nations to ensure that the scourge is brought under control and then eliminated. In that context, the Bahamas welcomes the recent grant to the Pan-Caribbean Partnership from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. That grant will provide a much-needed infusion of resources for prevention, care and treatment programmes. The Bahamas also welcomes the convening of the June 2005 high-level meeting to review the progress achieved in realizing the commitments set out in the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS. The Bahamas acknowledges the pledge made by the United States to set aside $15 billion to fight HIV/AIDS throughout the world, including in Haiti and Guyana in the Caribbean region. It is an inescapable fact that there can be no meaningful social or economic development without security. For many of us in the Caribbean in particular, that security is being undermined by the activities of those trafficking in illicit drugs, illegal weapons and undocumented aliens. By virtue of its geographical location, the Bahamas is an unwitting transit point for such illegal activities. In the case of illicit drugs, the Bahamas is neither a producer nor the final destination for them. However, as a trans-shipment point, the Bahamas, as do other transit countries, experiences the illegal activities associated with that trade. Those activities tend to undermine the economic and social fabric of our nations. We therefore welcomed the convening in June 2004 of the first session of the Open-ended Working Group to Negotiate an International Instrument to Enable States to Identify and Trace in a Timely Manner Illicit Small Arms and Light Weapons, some of the tools undermining our safety and security and our economic and social fabric. That meeting was a small, but important, first step in reaching agreement on an instrument on tracing, to enable States affected by that illicit trade to more effectively identify lines of supply, put measures in place to interdict existing lines and prevent new ones, and to cooperate with other States at the bilateral, regional and international levels. At the same time, we continue to call on developed countries to take the same extraordinary measures they use in seeking to stop drug trafficking into their countries to 8 stop illegal small arms from reaching our shores from their countries. The Bahamas joins with other countries of the Caribbean Community in voicing our concern about the persistent attempts on the part of some of the developed world’s un-elected multilateral bodies to exclude developing countries from decision-making and norm-setting processes, thereby undermining our economies. Chief among those is the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The decisions of those bodies are not friendly acts. We repeat the call we made last year about the need for a global forum to deal with those unfair practices. We welcome the work that has been done in the Economic and Social Council to redress the imbalance in favour of a level playing field. The arrangements for dealing with international tax matters in particular are a source of concern. We pledge to continue to work with the United Nations towards establishing a world body that will deal with those matters in a fair and balanced way. Yesterday I was in our capital city, Nassau, in the Bahamas, where we marked 275 years of continuous representative, parliamentary democracy. This, then, is a propitious time to reaffirm the commitment of the Bahamas to the principles enshrined in the Charter of this great Organization, which will stand as a guiding beacon as we continue to chart a rocky, yet crucial, course towards peace, security and sustainable development for all the world’s inhabitants. While progress may seem meagre, we must not be swayed from our course and we must remain confident that the benefits of our activities and efforts will redound to future generations. I say again that, now more than ever, the world needs the United Nations.In expressing to you, Sir, our great pride at seeing an eminent representative of the Group of African States preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, I wish to offer you, on behalf of Mr. Gnassingbé Eyadema, President of the Togolese Republic, and of the Government and the people of Togo, which it is my great honour to represent, our sincere wishes for your success in fulfilling your mandate. We also congratulate Secretary-General Kofi Annan on his dynamic and unequivocal work at the head of our Organization. The present session of the General Assembly is being held at a time when international peace and security continue to be seriously threatened, requiring our common Organization fully to shoulder its role and mission with even greater determination and bolder initiatives. Indeed, we are living in a world of precarious balances arising from our collective inability to establish genuine peace and shared well- being in the framework of international legitimacy. In Africa, the legitimate aspirations of people to lasting peace, in particular in those countries and regions where that peace is being sorely tested, have yet to be achieved. In Côte d’Ivoire, after numerous short-lived hopes have been dashed, the implementation of the Accra III Agreement remains today the sole hope for the restoration of peace and stability in that country. The Togolese Head of State, who from the very beginning of the crisis committed himself to the path of dialogue and reconciliation, will continue to be involved in the peaceful settlement of that fratricidal conflict. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, recently arisen obstacles to the peace process, which is intended to lead to the holding in 2005 of elections for the creation of new institutions, have required the international community to spare no effort in maintaining the gains won through the costly deployment of the United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) and in launching, whenever necessary, such operations as Artemis to nip in the bud any impulse towards a resumption of combat wherever it may arise. The Government of Togo therefore unreservedly supports the Secretary-General’s proposal significantly to increase the number of MONUC personnel. It is to be hoped that the international conference on peace, security and development in the Great Lakes region, to be held in November, will be the appropriate framework for finding lasting solutions to the problems of insecurity and instability that continue to weaken relationships among States of the region and to jeopardize the emergence of a climate of good- neighbourliness and mutual understanding. In the Sudan, regarding the tragedy unfolding in Darfur, the international community must urgently assist the Government of that country and the Sudan People’s Liberation Army/Movement to consolidate the peace process through the signing of the comprehensive peace agreement. In that regard, the international community must provide consistent support to the African Union’s peace operation. In Burundi, Liberia and Somalia in particular, the outburst of solidarity and renewed interest which the international community continues to show in the restoration of peace and the recovery of those countries, battered by long years of war, should be accompanied by more adequate financial and logistical assistance. Togo, for its part, will continue to contribute to conflict and crisis resolution in Africa and to support the various United Nations peacekeeping operations by supplying military contingents or observers, as it is currently doing in Côte d’Ivoire, Burundi, Liberia and Haiti. The prevailing situations in the world, particularly in Iraq and the Middle East, are a source of major concern. In Iraq, the restoration of full sovereignty to the Iraqi people and the recognition that the United Nations has an important role to play in rebuilding the country should give every element of Iraqi society the opportunity to work with resolve to 11 build a stable and prosperous country free of all violence. In the Middle East, the ongoing escalation of violence between the State of Israel and the Palestinian State may definitively compromise the continuation of the peace process and the implementation of the various agreements that have been signed. In that respect, the international community and the Quartet must strive to persuade the two protagonists to avoid unilateral action and to return to the negotiating table on the basis of the road map and the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. Furthermore, we wish to emphasize, again with respect to crisis issues, that post-conflict situations clearly demonstrate the importance of providing adequate financing, not only for humanitarian assistance but also for other vital programmes to promote peace and sustainable development. There is thus a need for the financing of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes for ex- combatants and other long-term instruments for ensuring peace — such as education, health care and job creation for young people — to be made a priority of post-conflict peace-building. In the same context, the troubling financial situation of the three Regional Centres for peace and disarmament call for more attention from the Assembly if they are to enjoy the financial resources necessary to fulfil their mandates harmoniously. In that regard, and on the basis of the relevant Secretary-General’s reports, the delegation of Togo firmly believes that it is high time for the General Assembly seriously to review the financing of the Regional Centres in order to provide them with adequate financial resources under the Organization’s regular budget. In so doing, the General Assembly would demonstrate its genuine support for the Organization’s goals in the area of arms control and disarmament and its appreciation of the active role played to date by the Centres. For its part, my country, which hosts the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa, will do its utmost to ensure the Centre’s continuity and long-term viability. Terrorism is the other major danger of our times because it continues seriously to threaten our States and is thus a scourge in the face of which failure to act effectively means giving way to the forces of evil. Having endured terrorism in the past, Togo once again condemns the heinous terrorist attacks perpetrated recently around the world and keenly hopes that more decisive action will be undertaken to eradicate that disease of the human conscience. From that perspective, while it is up to each State to take the measures necessary to strengthen security within its own borders, we must strive above all to enhance regional and international cooperation among States and to ensure that the poor States can enjoy adequate assistance in the implementation of effective national mechanisms to combat terrorism. Economic and social development is a corollary of peace and security. We all recall that, at the dawn of the twenty-first century, the Millennium Summit was convened here in this very Hall. Following the Summit, at which the problems of poverty and development were debated, the heads of State and Government adopted the Millennium Declaration, an unprecedented affirmation of international solidarity in which the rich and poor countries together undertook firm commitments whereby they forcefully reaffirmed their will to reduce by half, by the year 2015, the proportion of the world’s population touched by poverty. World leaders voiced the hope at that time that other major meetings also held early in the new millennium would serve as a framework for the birth of genuine partnership between the countries of the North and those of the South. Several years later, however, we note with regret that the Millennium Development Goals have been hard to achieve. Indeed, the necessary resources to finance sustainable development and to combat poverty and hunger in the developing countries have not been mobilized and, contrary to expectations, only a small number of developing countries have been able to make progress in the elimination of poverty. The critical economic situation in Africa requires a collective awakening and introspection. What has happened to our myriad commitments? What has happened to our many promises? Regarding the rules of international trade, which remain unfavourable to the poor countries; regarding the long-awaited debt relief; regarding the fact that the goal of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product for official development assistance has been met by only a small fraction of donor countries, we may well ask ourselves what happened to the solidarity so loudly proclaimed at the Millennium Summit. 12 Last year’s failure of the World Trade Organization trade negotiations in Cancún — designed to settle the critical issues of eliminating agricultural subsidies and providing access to the markets of the industrialized world for the products of the countries of the South — highlighted yet again the North-South division and evoked real fears for the future of the multilateral trade system. On the basis of those questions and concerns, the delegation of Togo reaffirms the need for all international partners to reflect in deeds the political will they proclaimed at the International Conference on Financing for Development and the World Summit on Sustainable Development so as to give new impetus to efforts to increase official development assistance, to provide debt relief and equitable access to markets, to protect the environment, and to combat malaria, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. 2005 will be a crucial year for our Organization. Indeed, in 2005, we shall engage in in-depth consideration of the implementation of the Monterrey Consensus. In 2005, we shall hold a high-level debate on the implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS. In that regard, we need to bear in mind that the twenty-sixth special session of the General Assembly set specific goals to be met for 2003 and 2005 towards the eradication of HIV/AIDS pandemic. Above all, 2005 will be the year of the high-level plenary meeting to engage in a comprehensive review of progress made in the implementation of all of the commitments undertaken in the Millennium Declaration and at the major United Nations conferences and summit meetings in the economic and social fields. We therefore await those meetings with interest. They will give us the opportunity to reaffirm our political commitment to building a world of greater solidarity and prosperity in order to give hope once more to that significant segment of the world’s population that lives on less than $1 a day, suffers from hunger and malnutrition and has no access to drinking water. The peace and economic and social development that we desire for our countries cannot be achieved without the effective participation of peoples in managing public affairs. Democracy in Togo, based on a multi-party system and the rule of law, has become a vibrant reality, inter alia, through the adoption of important legislative and administrative texts and the establishment of virtually every institution provided for by the Constitution. With faith and determination, the Government of Togo, under the impetus of the Head of State, is striving to build a genuinely democratic society that also takes the sociological realities of our country into account. In order to complete its task, the Government has declared its openness to any constructive contribution from the national political class and civilian society, as well as from our development partners. In that context, on 14 April it opened consultations with the European Union, in conformity with article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement of partnership linking that organization to the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States. At the outset of the consultations, the Government endorsed a number of commitments whose implementation is currently near completion and should ultimately lead to a better foundation of democratic culture and the consolidation of the rule of law. The Government intends to strive to bring the consultations to a successful conclusion, the ultimate objective of which is the resumption of cooperation between the European Union and Togo. The political zeal of the Togolese authorities — reflected in the implementation of an ongoing inclusive national dialogue; the adoption of a press and communications code; the drafting of an improved electoral code and a financing law for political parties; and the decision taken by the Head of State on 11 August to release more than 500 common-law prisoners — is a guarantee of the Government’s resolve to create favourable conditions for the citizens of Togo to enjoy their fundamental rights, and in particular their political and economic rights. We take this opportunity to launch an urgent appeal to all our development partners to assist the Government of Togo in the process of strengthening and consolidating democracy and the rule of law. I cannot conclude without returning to the recurrent issue of United Nations reform. The Government of Togo wishes to propose that bold decisions be taken at this session to accelerate the process of reform of the system, and of the Security Council in particular, so that the issue can be more than a mirage. Indeed, the numerous challenges confronting 13 today’s world require a strengthened and more effective Security Council, which only a more representative and more democratic membership can ensure. In that respect, Africa deserves an appropriate place within that vital United Nations body. The Security Council must therefore be enlarged in both the permanent and non-permanent memberships so as to meet the democratic requirements of our times and to allow various groups of countries to provide their valuable assistance in achieving the objectives of our Organization, which include peace and security, working for freedom and democracy, guaranteeing global prosperity through free and equitable international trade, preserving a healthy environment and creating stable international relations based on dialogue. If we truly seek to achieve all this, we must give our common Organization the resources commensurate with doing so. May this session serve to strengthen cooperation among our States and peoples and assist us in consolidating peace and in achieving security and lasting development for all.It is my special pleasure to address the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. This universal forum has enabled the peoples of the world to coordinate and harmonize their efforts in preserving peace and security, in achieving prosperity and upholding the values of human civilization. I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on being elected to preside over this august body and to express my confidence in your successful leadership. I would also like, on behalf of Albania, to convey to the Secretary-General our highest appreciation for his leading contribution to the fulfilment of the historical mission of the United Nations and to the aspirations of our peoples for a better world in which only peace, democracy and economic prosperity reign. This session of the General Assembly takes place in a milestone year for Europe. Only a few months ago, a historic event vitalized the dream of a more united and stronger Europe. Ten European countries, sharing a common aspiration for integration, were admitted into the European Union. The Albanian Government and society are engaged in an all-round European integration process, and they are carrying out necessary reforms with the necessary political will and drive. Albania is working to strengthen the democratic institutions and capacities of its central and local government with a view to bringing its legislation and conditions into line with European Union standards, progressively achieving concrete and measurable results, as previously defined. Determined to make our contribution to regional and global security, the Albanian Government considers the country's integration into NATO to be one of its major objectives. The NATO Istanbul Summit last June commended the progress made by my country in this regard and encouraged the deepening of reforms. It welcomed Albania's contribution to regional stability and cooperation and committed to assess our further progress at the next NATO summit, which would hopefully mark the start of negotiations for our full membership in the alliance. We believe that the commitments set up in the framework of the Adriatic Charter are also contributing to meet NATO 38 standards, to the benefit of regional stability and security. We remain truly convinced that the respect and protection of human rights and freedoms are the main pillars of a pluralist democratic society. The Government of the Republic of Albania will continue to constantly demonstrate its commitment to a full implementation of the standards enshrined in the United Nations and Council of Europe conventions, as well as the relevant documents of regional organizations, such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in which we are playing a very active role. We will continue to do so in the future as well. By adopting contemporary legislation and by becoming a party to other recently adopted international instruments on human rights, Albania has associated itself with countries that are enforcing a number of national strategies and programmes focusing on specific population groups, especially women, children, persons in need and minorities, among others. In recent years, the Albanian Government has started to periodically submit reports to the committees of the six main United Nations human rights treaties and is taking their recommendations into serious consideration. It is our belief that these international mechanisms play a significant and important role as guardians of the common human values we have together adopted. Albania, as one of the 191 signatory countries of the Millennium Declaration, remains fully committed to implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, which have been properly reflected in a national strategy for social and economic development. The pattern of our sustained economic growth, which is at 6 to 7 per cent for the seventh consecutive year, is a good support base for the whole society to maintain higher standards of respect for human rights and to fight poverty and crime. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the United Nations specialized agencies for their valuable assistance in support of the implementation of these objectives nationwide and on a central and local level. The Albanian Government is pleased to note that an ever-healthier climate of confidence and relations of bilateral and multilateral cooperation are prevailing in the South-Eastern European region. The countries of the region are fully engaged in a process that will lead us clearly toward Euro-Atlantic integration and at the same time continually remove us from the extremist tendencies that caused a number of conflicts in the last decade. The regional policy of my Government is guided by the motto: 'the more integrated in the region, the more integrated in Europe.' In implementing this policy, Albania is cooperating as never before with all the countries of the region by making borders less relevant, opening up to one regional market the implementation of free trade agreements and free movement corridors, and stimulating foreign direct investment. We are especially cooperating with the common fight against organized crime and all kinds of illegal trafficking. In the meantime, Albania is reinforcing its border management and control, guided by the European Union and NATO standards. My country will hold general parliamentary elections by the middle of next year. We are committed to doing all that is required to ensure that the election process is fully compatible with international standards for free and fair elections. To that end, we are committed to continuing to work with relevant specialized institutions on elections by fully implementing especially OSCE/Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) recommendations. For us, the process and standards are more important than the results of the elections. In the context of strengthening regional cooperation, my country is committed to a more enhanced partnership with all regional organizations and initiatives that serve the promotion of good neighbourly relations; the strengthening of regional peace, security and stability; ensuring political support for integration into Euro-Atlantic structures, and attracting financing for national and regional projects in priority fields such as energy, transportation and telecommunications. On its path towards European integration, the South-East European region is still facing pending challenges, such as the future of Kosovo. Albania greatly appreciates the recent democratic and integration developments in Kosovo, thanks to the efforts of the respective peoples and the partnership of its self-governing institutions with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). Allow me at this point to congratulate Mr. Soren Jessen-Petersen, Special Representative for Kosovo of the United Nations Secretary-General, in assuming this very important duty. 39 The Albanian Government shares the view that the time has come for a rapid and coherent implementation of the policy of standards of a multiethnic democracy and European status for Kosovo. This would be the key to the solution of a number of other issues. We truly hope that the question of the final status of Kosovo will reach a final solution soon, for the sake of the people of Kosovo and for the enhancement of the Europeanization process of the whole region. In the meantime, we support all efforts to build a democratic and multicultural society in Kosovo that is governed by the rule of law, ethnic and religious tolerance and cohabitation. Particularly helpful in this regard would be the further energizing of UNMIKís transfer of authority to the legitimate institutions of Kosovo that are already being anchored to European integration agendas. We believe that in the upcoming October parliamentary elections, the Albanian and other ethnic communities of Kosovo will demonstrate their best values, taking a major step toward the consolidation of multiethnic democracy in the region. We also hope that the Serbian minority in Kosovo will assume its responsibilities and, through a free vote, make their contribution to the European future of Kosovo. Their participation in all levels of the democratic institutions of Kosovo would further contribute to the consolidation of peace, stability and the European perspective in the whole region. My Government supports a stimulation of direct dialogue between Pristina and Belgrade, both on political and technical issues. This is fundamental in resolving the pending problems and is in accordance with the spirit of regional and European integration. The tragic terrorist attack one year ago in Baghdad, which took the lives of 22 people, including United Nations Under-Secretary-General Sergio Vieira de Mello, is still fresh in our memories. Such hideous and punishable acts, which continued in the following days and months there and in other countries of the world, such as Turkey, Spain, Russia, Indonesia and others, show that terrorism is today the biggest threat to international peace and security, to stability and to the values of world democracy and civilization. In the global effort to combat terrorism, our countries have already understood that, first of all, it cannot be identified with one people, one religion, one race or only certain groups of society. We believe that the fight against terrorism will only be successful if we join efforts. In that context, we support the strengthening of international cooperation among States and international organizations, in which the United Nations has an irreplaceable role. The Albanian Government has been consistently committed to making its contribution as an active member of the international coalition against terrorism. We have peacekeeping troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. We have signed, ratified and now are implementing 12 United Nations conventions and protocols against terrorism. We are doing the same with the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, cooperating with and presenting regular reports to the Council. The Albanian Government salutes the decision of the Security Council to play a more active role in the fight against threats stemming from the possession and trafficking of weapons of mass destruction. We support Security Council resolution 1540 (2004). Albania has, on the other hand, taken all measures for the implementation of the Code of Conduct on the Safety and Security of Radioactive Sources of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), convinced that this international instrument is extremely important to preventing threats stemming from the misuse of radioactive materials. Albania has already taken the decision and will soon sign the Protocol Additional to the Safeguards Agreement of the IAEA. This year, Albania also joined the Proliferation Security Initiative, with its respective commitments that will create benefits for all. Peace and stability have not been fully established in certain regions of the world. The United Nations and the Security Council are the authorities mandated by the Charter to preserve peace and security globally. It is only natural that crisis-solving solutions and initiatives in such hot spots around the globe as Iraq, the Middle East, Afghanistan, Sudan and so on remain high on their agenda. We believe that a more active engagement of the international community is required in finding the most suitable and lasting solutions for those crisis situations, as is the further enhancement of the role and effectiveness of the United Nations structures. In that regard, the Albanian Government welcomed the unanimous adoption of Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) of 8 June on Iraq, approving the 40 provisional Government of Iraq and transferring to it authority and sovereignty, the independence and territorial integrity of Iraq, Iraqi Government control of the armed forces and, in particular, the holding of democratic elections in early 2005. The progress made in Iraq is due to the cooperation between the Iraqi Government forces and those of the Coalition. We would wish, however, to see a further lowering of tensions and a full stop to violence. We would wish for increased security, more stability and the establishment of a democratic society. That is why we strongly condemn the strategy of violence and hostage-taking to achieve political goals, sometimes cloaked under a religious veil, and we join our voice to those of all the international actors that have called for an immediate stop to those acts. The Albanian Government supports the efforts of the United Nations to provide the assistance necessary to build national democratic institutions in Iraq and to the holding of free and democratic elections early next year. My Government also follows with great concern the developments in the Middle East. Like the whole international community, we hope to see an end put to the deterioration of the situation in the occupied Palestinian territories, where violence towards the civilian population is increasingly claiming innocent lives, especially those of women and children. On the other hand, we condemn any terrorist act against the civilian population, irrespective of whose name it is committed in. The Albanian Government strongly believes that peace can and should be achieved only through dialogue and negotiation. We are convinced that the Security Council, the Quartet and the international community have the authority and the capacity to establish a stable peace in Palestine and throughout the Middle East based on the Security Councilís resolutions and the road map. The international community should continue to monitor closely the implementation of the road map in order to avoid any deviation from or change, misinterpretation or blocking of it by the parties to the conflict. Current developments and realities in the international arena, and the acute problems and challenges we are all facing ó such as preserving peace and security, facing the threats and dangers of terrorism, the fight against poverty and fatal diseases, the effects of globalization and environmental degradation ó have increasingly sharpened the need to revitalize our Organization. The Albanian Government is fully supportive of the efforts of the Secretary- General to reform the Organization, in particular the initiatives taken regarding the reform of the Security Council. We join with the voices that call for a stronger United Nations and for more efficient organs and mechanisms engaged in monitoring the implementation of obligations by United Nations Member States, in particular those concerning global security. We therefore think that the time has come to have a more representative, more transparent and more flexible Security Council that could better reflect current realities. Its enlargement with permanent and non-permanent members would increase the possibilities for all States Members of the United Nations to contribute to the preservation of international peace and stability. It would be a significant step towards the completion of United Nations reform. My country is willing to contribute further to the activities of the United Nations, especially in the global and regional agendas related to sustainable economic and social development and the protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights universally. To that end, Albania has modestly presented for the first time its candidacy to become a member of the Economic and Social Council for the period 2005-2007. We hope we shall succeed. A few weeks ago, the whole world witnessed the successful conclusion of the Olympic Games in Athens. Gathered around the Olympic torch, sportsmen and women demonstrated how closely nations can stand with one another and how we can get rid of hatred and conflict from our midst. Let the symbol of Olympic peace and fraternity help us to build a better, more secure world for us and for generations to come.For the second time, I have this special opportunity of appearing before you in the common home of the nations of the world. Everyone knows that we live in a time of great risks and problems, but also of great opportunities. Allow me to refer to two challenges, which in my opinion are the most important: the lack of security and the existence of poverty. First of all, I must refer to the lack of security. I believe that it is obvious to everyone that the durability of our democratic system and the alleviation of poverty require us to provide for the security of each one of our citizens. My Government is committed to that. The safety of my compatriots is my first priority. I am committed to ensuring respect for human rights and, within that concept, I am even more committed to ensuring the protection and the security of honest and hard-working citizens. If we all strive to provide security and reduce our citizensí level of poverty, we will also be combating terrorists, and we will be winning the battle against those who take advantage of the positive qualities of democracy to destroy it through terror. Combating terrorism begins by combating crime and delinquency in our countries. We are committed to this struggle, and we know that we are not alone. This is, in fact, a universal challenge. We know that we can only confront it if we are together. Crime, delinquency and terrorism have, in effect, already undergone globalization and our actions, therefore, must be equally based on international cooperation. Organized crime appears in many shapes and forms. However, few are as degrading as drug trafficking. Few crimes generate as much corruption or so thoroughly destroy the core of our society and our values than drug trafficking. My country is on the drug trafficking route. We are right in the middle of the corridor that links the producers to the consumers. We are victims of the greed of the producers and the perverted desires of the consumers. Over the past 18 months in Honduras, we have impounded more drugs than in all the previous nine years, but this is obviously still not enough. Combating organized crime and drug trafficking, if we are alone, will be almost impossible. The Governments of the countries in which drugs are produced, the countries that are used to transport the drugs and the countries in which the drugs are consumed must, together, confront this. If we are alone, the poor countries have very few chances of succeeding. If we remain alone, we will have to divert resources that we need to combat poverty towards combating drug trafficking and organized crime. We 7 need more resolute, direct and substantial support if we are to confront this tremendous challenge. I would like to say to the wealthy countries: let us work together to confront this scourge of our time. Security also implies the rule of law and, for over three years, we have worked to bring it about. We have combated corruption by closing businesses that engaged in tax evasion, eliminated the immunity of public servants and promoted a responsible use of State resources. We have achieved a great deal, but we recognize that a great deal remains to be done. We recently adopted a property law, which, for the first time in our history, enables the poor to hold deeds to their land. This may seem simple and almost trivial in developed countries, but on our continent, by and large, the poor have not enjoyed the benefit of these valuable deeds. Eighty-four per cent of Hondurasí citizens do not have a title to the plot of land on which they live. We are opening new pathways, and before my Government completes its mandate, we hope that hundreds of thousands of poor people will hold, for the first time, registered titles to their property. Security also implies peaceful relationships with our neighbours. For the first time in our history, our land borders have been defined, and they are now being conclusively demarcated. What is even more important is that this was achieved without spilling blood and without bellicose threats. We resorted to the International Court of Justice in The Hague and we have complied with its rulings. As far as Honduras is concerned, solving a border dispute is not something that can be achieved through violence. It can be achieved peacefully, through international jurisprudence. Having now consolidated our land borders, we are defining our maritime borders, and we have once again had recourse to the International Court of Justice. In our opinion, the time has now come to take the next step. The time has come to declare Central America a zone of peace, a zone that renounces violence as a means of resolving disputes. To consolidate this process with the support of the Organization of American States, we have already eliminated all the landmines that were placed around our country years ago, and we can now say with pride that we are a country that is entirely free of landmines. To bring this process to completion, we now propose reducing the number of weapons of war throughout the region. To lend credibility to this process, we invite the United Nations to accompany us and to certify compliance on the part of each of our countries. We also invite the international community to join us in this process. We propose that the process of arms reduction be supported with fresh resources to combat poverty. We propose an exchange: weapons of war in exchange for funding for poverty alleviation. Please support us. Poverty, and even more, hunger and malnutrition, are the most fearsome enemies of our democratic systems. A democracy based on empty stomachs is an empty democracy. All the research that has been carried out, including studies by the United Nations, tell us that, today as never before, formal democracy prevails throughout our continent, in Latin America. However, the same studies tell us that, today more than ever, dissatisfaction with our democratic systems is rampant. Poverty undermines our democracies and hunger erodes them. We know that combating poverty and hunger is an effort that must be shared by all. In our case, in Honduras, with much participation on the part of our citizens, we have devised a strategy to combat poverty that incorporates the Millennium Development Goals. This legacy has been refined and perfected over the past two years. The strategy to combat poverty is the very foundation of our vision as a country and of our planning as a nation. However, alone and in isolation, our efforts undoubtedly will not be able to produce the hoped-for results for our people. We require the support of the international community. International cooperation is not a handout; it is an investment. Everyone, absolutely everyone, derives benefit from it. Our small economies are open to international trade and to globalization. We do not fear this challenge; in fact, we see that it provides tremendous opportunities to us. However, we will not be able to overcome our poverty if the rules of international trade are not fair. We firmly believe that protected markets lead only to stagnation and the growth of poverty. It is not fair that while we are opening our markets, other countries are giving subsidies to their producers. We welcome the decision of the United States to return to the International Coffee Organization, but at the same time we ask that the hundreds of thousands of families that grow coffee in rural areas be paid better. Let me give you an example. Five years ago, our farmers earned 40 per cent of the price of coffee served to the final consumer. Today, they earn only 9 per cent, 8 while the companies in developed countries pocket the difference. I invite the presidents and heads of State of coffee-producing countries to work together until we achieve a better price for all of our farmers. Together, producers and consumers, we can make sure that coffee is not a bitter drink for the producers. If the price of coffee can have a rapid and massive impact on the struggle against poverty, the price of oil, when it rises, rapidly makes our poverty much worse. In the case of my country, over the past year the increased bill for oil is 12 times what we spend on providing school lunches to 870,000 boys and girls who used to go to school without eating every day. This is 12 times what it took us years and many sacrifices to achieve. The world has seldom seen so massive a transfer of resources from poor importing countries to wealthy oil-exporting countries. I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to international conscience, and in particular to the conscience of oil-exporting countries, that we may establish a trading system that brings about a reduction in the price of oil and helps to stabilize it. We need a system that takes account of poverty in countries and of the efforts that are being made to combat it. We need a system that enjoys United Nations supervision to ensure that it is used properly. I am making a formal request to the United Nations to take the lead in this matter. I am not exaggerating when I say that there are few other actions we could take that would make such a great contribution to reducing poverty. I would also like to appeal to the developed countries to use oil like a scarce resource. Let them continue to improve fuel efficiency and to establish taxes that reflect the true cost of oil. Let them coordinate measures to make sure that demand does not grow unduly and make prices grow too fast. They should make prudent use of a non- renewable resource to which we should all have access. I would like to conclude by appealing to all to strengthen the United Nations system. That is the only way we can achieve peace in the world. Let us subordinate our individual agendas in order to find agreed solutions here in the United Nations. The well- being of the world demands that we act in this manner. I would also add that we support reforming the Security Council by increasing the number of permanent and non-permanent members. This will make it possible for countries such as Japan to participate, as well as a representative for Latin America. This will lend greater legitimacy to the Councilís decisions. We also support an all-embracing approach for the United Nations, which, in our opinion, means that we should find a way of enabling the Chinese people in Taiwan to participate in the United Nations processes. As I said at the beginning, we are living in difficult times, but this is also a time of great opportunity. We hold out our hand in friendship to everyone. All that we ask in exchange is to be treated fairly.It gives me pleasure to extend my delegationís sincere 41 congratulations to Mr. Jean Ping on his deserved election to the presidency of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. Given the issues that we must consider during this session, and in view of the important tasks we must face in the coming year, we particularly welcome the Presidentís experience and skills, which are familiar to us in the African arena. We would also like to extend our thanks and appreciation to Mr. Julian R. Hunte, the outgoing President, for the great efforts he made in conducting the work of the Assembly, as well as to the Secretary- General for leading the work of the Organization. Last year from this rostrum I stated that negotiations between the Government and the Sudan Peopleís Liberation Movement/Army, under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and Kenyaís chairmanship, and with the support of the IGAD partners, had made great progress and peace had become imminent. I am glad to say that the last round of negotiations resulted in the signing, in the first week of June 2004, of six protocols dealing with security arrangements, cessation of hostilities, distribution of wealth, power-sharing and the conflict in the Nubian mountains region, the Blue Nile and Abiai. We decided to hold the last round of negotiations on 7 October 2004 to complete the details of a comprehensive peace, which will, it is hoped, be signed at the end of this year. We stand on the threshold of peace. The new challenge before us now is to overcome the differences of the past, start reconstruction and rehabilitation, concentrate on development and strengthen the pillars of peace and national unity on the basis of compatriotism and equality of rights and duties. For that reason, my Government declares its firm intention of conducting a national dialogue with all political forces, inside and outside the Sudan, in order to make peace a national objective that can be achieved through a national charter. It also gives me pleasure to say that in addition to the talks in Naivasha and Abuja my Government started a third forum in Cairo, under the auspices of the Egyptian Government, to engage in dialogue with factions of the national opposition, headquartered in Asmara. Because war has devastated all sectors of the country, reconstruction efforts are especially difficult. We would like to express our appreciation to the international community for the humanitarian assistance they provided during the war. We now appeal to the international community to help in the reconstruction process: to ameliorate the living conditions in the areas devastated by war all over the Sudan; to aid in the resettlement of internally displaced persons and refugees; and to participate in development projects in order to achieve peace and stability. We were at the threshold of peace in the south when another war broke out in Darfur as the result of a rebel movement begun by some tribes and supported by foreign forces. The rebel movementís terrorist action was not directed against the Government only, but against those tribes that refused to join them. That, in turn, pushed those tribes to train and arm militias to defend themselves against the rebels. The rebel movement targeted the security apparatus, sowing death and destruction, which led to the release of criminal Janjaweed groups from prisons. The aggression continued against civilians and Government institutions. The root causes of Darfur go back to conflicts among the tribal communities in the region. Previously, those conflicts were settled according to traditional customs and norms. But the growth in population and the number of livestock, coupled with a decrease in the water supply owing to desertification, led to tense struggles between grazing land tribes and farmers. There were other causes for regional conflict: an influx of arms and the interference of neighbouring countries that tried to exploit the tense situation, encouraging rebellions against the Government by training and arming certain groups. The present conflict in Darfur started in March 2003, when rebels started inciting dissension and strife, attacking highways, plundering livestock and taking international relief workers as hostages. The Government tried to convince them to abandon military action, but they insisted on occupying cities and villages and terrorizing tribes, forcing them into armed service. Everyone had to carry weapons for self- defence. Then, the Government intervened to try to halt the hostilities, impose law and order and prevent civil war. This conflict, which was imposed on the Government, has created extremely complicated and dire humanitarian conditions. The Government took the necessary measures. It sent food relief to Darfur. Next, it eliminated all the administrative, legal and technical 42 arrangements that impeded relief work, it allowed relief organizations to enter Darfur unimpeded, and it curtailed certain regulations, such as visa requirements, in order to provide protection to camps of displaced persons. The Government deployed police and reopened legal offices destroyed by the rebels. The process of bringing all of those accused of violating human rights to justice began. Furthermore, the Government cooperated with the international community by signing a joint communique with the Secretary-General that includes a number of measures to deal with the situation in Darfur and, together with Jan Pronk, Special Representative of the Secretary- General for the Sudan, I headed a Joint Implementation Mechanism mission to the area. Furthermore, out of its belief in a peaceful settlement as a strategic choice, the Government entered into negotiations with the rebels under the auspices of the President of Chad, which culminated in the Abashi agreement in 2003, but that agreement was later violated by the rebels. However, this did not weaken the Governmentís resolve to continue its efforts, until we attained the ceasefire agreement in NíDjamena. In order to cooperate with the African Union, we sent a high-level delegation to the first round of negotiations at Addis Ababa; our delegation was given full authority to reach a peaceful settlement with the rebels. But the rebels boycotted the talks. The Government redoubled its efforts at all levels - political, security and humanitarian - out of its responsibility for the people, and it cooperated fully with the United Nations so as to implement the agreement that had been reached with the Secretary- General. Then, on 30 July 2004, the Security Council adopted resolution 1556 (2004), which gave the Government only one month to deal with the problem and threatened the imposition of sanctions. It is regrettable that this resolution sent an erroneous message, thus encouraging the rebels to give up negotiations with good intention. They insisted on conditions that were impossible to implement. And this led to the collapse of negotiations in Addis Ababa, in spite of the African Unionís great efforts. Notwithstanding the faults and impracticality of this Security Council resolution, my Government, abiding by its international legitimacy and responsibility for its people, will continue to do its utmost to find the shortest way for the return of peace, stability and security to Darfur. My Government signed a working plan for Darfur with the United Nations; this plan included detailed arrangements for humanitarian aid, security and protection of displaced persons and their voluntary return. We assigned extra police forces, numbering 10,000. We also signed an agreement with the International Organization for Migration on the return of refugees. Within the framework of a political settlement, and despite the intransigence and lack of seriousness of the rebels, my Government accepted the invitation extended by President Obasanjo of Nigeria, the current Chairman of the African Union. We then sent another high-ranking delegation to Abuja on 23 August out of our belief in the political settlement as a strategic option. As it happened in the Addis Ababa negotiations, the Security Council adopted its resolution 1564 (2004) last Saturday, 18 September, which gave more incentive to the rebels and sent them an erroneous message to continue their intransigence. This led to the failure of the negotiations. Security Council resolution 1564 (2004) did not consider my Governmentís efforts to contain the humanitarian crisis in Darfur, which led to dÈtente in the situation. It did not pay attention to my Governmentís warning about the negative impact of any measures that would hamper the efforts made by the African Union for the peaceful settlement of the question of Darfur. We call upon the international community to provide assistance to the needy population in Darfur. At the same time, we ask for support and promotion of the African Union's efforts and that the situation on the ground not be further complicated or the Unionís efforts undermined. Believing in our own principles, our sense of responsibility and the attention my Government attaches to human rights questions, we have cooperated with international and voluntary organizations for the development and enhancement of human rights in my country. We have ratified this year the African Children's Initiative and, over the past months, we have received some independent experts and special rapporteurs sent by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). In cooperation with OHCHR, we have deployed a team of human rights observers in Darfur. Sudan's doors will be open for all those who want to know the truth. We have nothing to hide. Our efforts were not limited to 43 cooperating with the international community. We have taken some measures at the local level, and we have established a national independent committee to investigate allegations of human rights violations in Darfur. Also, there are other committees to investigate the other claims of rape in the Darfur region besides our efforts to provide protection, peace and security to our citizens. Since the beginning of the crisis, my Government has not hesitated to recognize that there has been a humanitarian problem in Darfur and a security problem that ought to be dealt with through a comprehensive political solution, despite the fact that the rebel movement led to this problem by starting violence and fighting. Then we resorted to the international community in general and the African Union and the League of Arab States in particular. We hope that the international community, especially the Security Council, will cooperate with us to find a solution instead of issuing threats and condemnations. The last Security Council resolution is a living example of such threats. We welcome the international communityís investigation of the Darfur violations. As I said, we have nothing to hide. What we all want from the Secretary-General, who is responsible for the establishment of this committee, and from the Security Council is confirmation of the credibility of the international organization so that this international committee would be neutral and professional. We do not want a committee like that headed by Richard Butler, who prepared his report at another location where it was signed and submitted to the Security Council indicating that it represented the position of the Organization. We hope that the voices of those who took certain positions regarding Darfur will be silent until the international committeeís report is issued. We face a very delicate situation and developments in the world today, and we need to face such challenges by garnering the political will to enhance the role of the United Nations and its agencies in order to carry out their functions within the framework of a real democracy that would express the interests and hopes of all peoples and confront the challenges of the twenty-first century. We must accelerate our current efforts that have been going on for a decade now for Security Council reform and to develop its methods of work. The body that is responsible for international peace and security is composed of permanent members, whose monopoly of the veto reflects a great imbalance over the simplest criteria of justice. Among the five permanent Members, there are three from one geographical group; two of them are from Western Europe. There is no representation whatsoever for entire continents, such as Africa or Latin America, and vast regions of Asia. Therefore, any discussion about submitting another candidate from Western Europe before taking these continents into consideration would be a consecration of this imbalanced equation and of the Westís hegemony over the affairs of this Organization. Terrorism and extremism are among the challenges facing the world today. We declare our total rejection and condemnation of this destructive phenomenon; but at the same time there is an unacceptable misunderstanding and confusion between terrorism and the struggles of people to achieve their independence and to rid themselves of foreign occupation. This misunderstanding culminates in the extreme when terrorism is linked to followers of a certain religion or culture. Terrorism has no religion or homeland. We stand with the international community and cooperate with it in its fight to eliminate terrorism, and we call for an international agreement on a definition of terrorism and to find the best means to face this plague through collective efforts. The gap between the rich and poor countries is widening within a system of globalization that further enriches the wealthy and impoverishes the poor. It has become an obstacle for the international community and the aspirations to a free and dignified life of billions of people in developing countries. The imbalance in todayís world economy and free trade is obvious. It will have an adverse effect not only on the developing countries but will lead also to total catastrophe in the whole world. We need to have political resolve, as stated by world leaders in the Millennium Declaration four years ago, and later at Monterrey and Johannesburg. Developing and least developed countries are still suffering from hunger and poverty. Let us renew hope for the hundreds of millions of poor and hungry people by translating that political will into concrete action in order to provide them with education and drinking water and to eliminate hunger, 44 destitution and disease by focusing on the goals and programmes that we have repeatedly agreed on. In this connection, we would like to pay tribute to the international initiative on the new Action Against Hunger and Poverty. Israelís oppressive policies against unarmed Palestinian people, the imposition of closures on occupied Palestinian land, the extrajudicial crimes committed there, the demolition of houses, the starvation and intimidation, the increased settlement activities and the besieging of the Palestinian President all require that the international community bring pressure to bear on Israel to stop those acts. The Sudan welcomes the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the illegality of the separation wall and on compensation for all losses caused by it. We welcome resolution ES-10/15, adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth emergency session, on 20 July 2004, demanding that Israel abide by that opinion. An international, comprehensive and just peace in the Middle East will be reached only when Israel withdraws from all occupied Arab lands, including the Syrian Golan Heights and the Lebanese Shaliía farms. There will be no peace or stability until the Palestinian people recover their legitimate rights, including their right to establish an independent Palestinian State with Jerusalem as its capital and the right of refugees to return to their lands. The difficult situation facing the Iraqi people makes it necessary to assist them to overcome their problems. Here we reaffirm the unity and independence of the Iraqi people and their right to self-determination. We hope that the restoration of those rights will lead to security and stability and to a return to normality in Iraq and that it will enable the Iraqi people to exercise their right to choose their own political leadership through free and fair elections. We call upon the international community to support the Iraqi provisional Government, to help in the reconstruction of Iraq and to support any initiative that would enable the Iraqis to live in dignity in their own country. Our efforts complement those efforts of the African Union to achieve stability and development in our continent, a continent so rich natural and human resources and capabilities. We have resolved to settle our conflicts and crises, which squander such resources and capabilities, and to work instead to promote economic and social development through the New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD). In conclusion, we reaffirm our determination to achieve a comprehensive and just peace that would lead to stability and well-being for the people of the Sudan and would bolster African Union efforts towards economic and social integrity. We look forward to the United Nations playing its role in establishing justice in international relations based on understanding, cooperation and mutual interests and avoiding confrontation and sanctions, which have proven to be harmful to people.It gives me great pleasure to address the General Assembly on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, currently chaired by my country, Qatar. I would like to seize this opportunity to extend congratulations to Mr. Jean Ping on his assumption of the presidency of the current session of the General Assembly, wishing His Excellency every success in the discharge of his functions. I would also like to extend thanks to his predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for guiding the work of the previous session. It also gives me pleasure to express my appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, for his judicious conduct of the work of this Organization during a critical period in which international relations have faced and are still facing immense challenges. The United Nations was established six decades ago as an expression of the aspirations of all the members of the international community to save the world from the scourge of war, to maintain international peace and security, and to achieve cooperation among nations and people in various fields. Roughly two decades after its inception, on 15 June 1964, to be exact, the Group of 77 was established to express the aspirations of scores of developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America to work with each other under the umbrella of the United Nations, with a view to promoting their common economic interests, developing their negotiating capacity regarding various international economic issues and increasing the bonds of their technical cooperation. Just as the United Nations has grown, its membership has increased and the scope of its activity has expanded, so, too, the Group of 77 and China has attracted new members into its membership — which now stands at 132 States, constituting more than two thirds of the membership of the United Nations. Our Group embodies the commitment of the developing countries to the mission of the United Nations and their determination to be guided by the lofty principles enshrined in its Charter. While the ministerial meetings of the Group highlight with utmost certainty its close relationship with the international organizations, the actions of its States since April 2000, when it convened its first meeting at the level of presidents and heads of Government, reaffirm the interest of its members in promoting coordination among themselves, inspired by the principles of the United Nations to achieve their aims. In the view of the Group of 77 and China, the difficult challenge facing the international community today is that of maintaining international peace and security while achieving economic welfare and development. The history of international relations over the second half of the last century has shown that it is almost impossible to maintain peace and security as long as people lack the minimum requirements for a basic dignified livelihood. Poverty and destitution have often resulted in tensions that have led to breaches of international peace and security, and it is no coincidence that the poorest regions in the world are the ones that have suffered the most complicated regional conflicts. To achieve the aims of security and development simultaneously, the international community needs to adopt more equitable policies that do justice to a large segment of the members of the international community who still lack many of the basic necessities of life. It is indisputable that globalization has acquired an immense momentum and yielded positive results. Nevertheless, it has been accompanied by some adverse effects as well, and a review and reconsideration of a number of current international economic policies is needed before globalization can acquire the human face it is supposed to have. The continued imbalance in the distribution of the benefits of international economic interdependence, the progressive widening of the gap between the developed and the developing countries, and the deterioration of the economic conditions in quite a few countries of the South, with the attendant adverse effects on the environment, will accentuate feelings of discontent and frustration and could even lead to abhorrent forms of international conflict. Accordingly, it is necessary to eliminate the obstacles that make it difficult for developing countries to reap the fruits of world economic growth, and the international community must reaffirm its commitment to the eradication of poverty and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals through a deeper and more comprehensive integration of the developing countries in the world economy. 13 The Group of 77 and China urgently calls for the establishment of an open multilateral trading system, one which takes into account the norms of justice and the rule of law and is geared to assisting developing countries combat poverty and underdevelopment. Such a system requires the elimination of bias in the liberalization of trade between the developed and the developing countries and the discontinuation of practices that continue to impede freedom of commerce, such as recourse to agricultural subsidies, support for certain products and restrictions on the movement of individuals, which make it impossible for developing countries to tap their potential or market many of their products. In this regard we call on the developed countries to liberalize trade at a faster rate by removing the various obstacles that have so far deprived the developing countries of their right to enjoy international trade relations based on equal opportunity. While noting the progress achieved in the Doha negotiations on the question of agriculture, we support the access to the world market of other products from developing countries and urge that this issue should be accorded the priority it deserves. Moreover, there should be agreement on specific measures to ensure sufficient financial flows to developing countries, especially foreign direct investment, to assist those countries in building the production capacity they need to compete in the world market. We would also stress the importance of enabling everyone to benefit from the achievements of science and technology and thereby to gain access to sources of knowledge and receive help in achieving development. A review of the implementation of the Millennium Declaration indicates that its objectives relating to the countries of Africa and the least developed countries have so far seemed unattainable. This is due in large measure to the failure of countries to fulfil the commitments they so generously made at various United Nations conferences and summits. As the General Assembly is going to undertake the first review of the Millennium Declaration next year, we should seize the opportunity of our meeting today to renew our commitment to the prompt implementation of the Declaration. At the 2005 review of the Declaration, the Group of 77 and China will present a series of implementing proposals, most of which focus on the development of multilateral international relations, with particular emphasis on the situation in Africa, the least developed countries and the landlocked developing countries. We have participated actively in seeking practical solutions to the problems besetting those regions and will participate in the forthcoming review of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States early in 2005. I take this opportunity to urge the international community to support the Barbados Programme of Action, as it is an integral part of our efforts to move towards a better world. Allow me now to address, on behalf of my country, Qatar, a number of political issues closely related to our aim of enabling the developing countries and peoples to enjoy their full economic rights. In particular, I wish to single out the absence of democracy and the prolonged slackening of political reform evident in a number of countries of the South, and probably most apparent in the past few years in the Middle East, where they have been at the root of most of the harsh social and economic suffering currently plaguing that region. Political reform and people’s participation in decision-making are no longer an option but have become a definite necessity. As the history of economic relations has shown, the States that have made the greatest economic achievements — whether in the North or in the South — have been those which were most committed to the exercise of democracy. The few exceptions — States that have managed to improve their economic performance without following the principles of democracy — have known limited success and have continued to be vulnerable to sudden economic upheavals. Just as international economic relations are dominated by the discourse on sustainable development, another discourse must be launched on what I would term “sustainable reform”. There is no lesson to be learned from the experience of the countries of the South which undertake political reform one moment then regress the next or take one step towards democracy to serve a selfish interest then take two steps backwards once that interest has been satisfied. One must instead look for guidance to the long history of development, which shows that those States which succeed are those which realize that their economies must be based on efficiency and that efficiency can be achieved, not by fiat and policies of 14 intimidation and confinement, but only by discussion of and participation in public affairs. The question of Palestine embodies the suffering of a people deprived of both its political and its economic rights and struggling, despite its difficulties, to remedy the situation. However, the Israeli occupation remains a crushing burden on the legitimate Palestinian dreams of freedom and development. For more than 50 years, the question of Palestine has been on the agenda of the General Assembly. Hence, the international community needs to listen to its conscience and to reconsider its position, bearing in mind that this question despite its humanitarian nature and manifest legitimacy, has been allowed to fester from one century to the next, thus compounding the tragedy of the Palestinian people before the might of the Israeli occupation forces. Compelling Israel to implement the resolutions of international legitimacy is more than a mere duty, because such legitimacy must not be applied selectively. Also, Israel must fulfil the commitments it has made, in accordance with the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice issued on 9 July 2004 and later endorsed by the General Assembly at its tenth emergency special session. This includes its commitment to the road map; halting the construction of the separation wall, which has harmed the Palestinian homeland and disrupted livelihoods; and enabling the Palestinian people to exercise its right to self determination and to establish an independent State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, that would coexist in security and peace with Israel. Related to this is the need to achieve a comprehensive peaceful settlement to the Arab-Israeli conflict on the basis of Israel’s withdrawal from all the territories occupied in 1967, including the Syrian Golan and the Lebanese Shaba’a farms. In this regard, we stress the need to transform the Middle East into a zone free of weapons of mass destruction, without any exception. As regards Iraq, it is our hope that Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) will help stabilize the situation so as to allow the implementation of the resolution’s timetable regarding the holding of free, democratic elections and the timely drafting of a permanent constitution as a prelude to the establishment of an elected constitutional government. Also, we will spare no effort in supporting the reconstruction of Iraq, and we affirm our position of principle regarding the need to safeguard its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs. We would also like to emphasize the central role of the United Nations in Iraq. We note with satisfaction the commitment of the Sudan to work closely with the international community to resolve the conflict in the Darfur region. This makes it incumbent on the international community to cooperate positively with the Sudanese Government, especially since it has initiated actions to restore the rule of law to mitigate the suffering of the inhabitants of that region. We also welcome the accords that were signed to find a peaceful settlement to the problem of southern Sudan and urge the international community to support the efforts of the Government of the Sudan in this regard. These last issues which I have raised, although seemingly of a political nature related to chronic regional problems, mainly in the Middle East, are not, in fact, far removed from the endeavours of the Group of 77 and China to achieve a more equitable international order. The regional stability that is sought in each of these cases will allow economic reconstruction on a sound basis in every instance. The Group of 77 has been striving for more than 40 years on more than one front. While building bridges among developing counties, it has actively sought to reach out to the developed countries and convince them that the interest of the international economic order lies in narrowing the gap, rather than widening it. Moreover, it will always remain committed to the principles of the United Nations, mindful of the need for continuous coordination with its organs and bodies.Allow me to convey to you, Sir, on behalf of the head of State, the Prime Minister and the Government and people of Côte d’Ivoire, my sincere congratulations on your unanimous election to preside over the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. Africa is proud to see, yet again, one of its sons in that eminent role. The sign of confidence on the part of all States Members of the United Nations reflects the great appreciation of the role being played by your country, Gabon, and by its President, His Excellency El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba, in dealing with the major issues characterizing development in the world, particularly in Africa. I am also gratified to have this opportunity to say how grateful we are to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, who, with his many years of skill as a diplomat, brilliantly discharged his mission. He also deserves our gratitude and our plaudits. Finally, I would like to express my warm appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the active and decisive role he has continued to play as head of the United Nations. During the year 2004, the process of national peace and reconciliation initiated, following the signing of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement and of Accra II, by the parties and political forces in Côte d’Ivoire encountered a major deadlock with the events in March and the suspension of the activities of the Government of National Reconciliation. A solution to that dangerous deadlock required determined action from all parties involved. That action, fortunately, was forthcoming from the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, who took the initiative of organizing a high- level meeting on Côte d’Ivoire on 6 July 2004 in Addis Ababa at the time of the third summit of the African Union. The major decision of that meeting was the convening, in Accra, of a summit devoted to the crisis in the Côte d’Ivoire. The summit, known as Accra III, was preceded, on the recommendation of the high-level meeting in Addis Ababa, by meetings of the major joint Ivorian/Burkina Faso and Ivorian/Malian commissions in July 2004, and by a mini-summit which brought together the heads of State of Côte d’Ivoire, Burkina Faso and Mali on 27 July 2004 in Bamako. During those meetings, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire and Mali agreed, inter alia, on the need to revitalize their cooperation in various areas, including human rights; the strengthening of safe economic corridors pending the reunification of Côte d’Ivoire; the strengthening of cooperation in security and defence matters, especially the surveillance of borders; a commitment not to allow the territory of one State to serve as a base for the destabilization of other States of the subregion; and the commitment of the three countries to work together to ensure the success of the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme undertaken in Côte d’Ivoire. Those various meetings between the Côte d’Ivoire and its neighbours created a climate of confidence and in part contributed to the success of the Accra III summit, held in the capital of Ghana on 29 July 2004 under the co-chairmanship of His Excellency Mr. John Kufuor, President of Ghana and Acting President of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and the Secretary-General of the United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, and in the presence of ten heads of State of Africa, the Chairperson of the Commission of the African Union and the Executive Secretary of ECOWAS. 24 In the context of the holding, in Côte d’Ivoire, of open, free and transparent elections in 2005, important decisions accompanied by a road map were made at the Accra III summit. Thus, the President of the Republic, owing to the serious and continuing threats to the territorial integrity of Côte d’Ivoire resulting from the continuing crisis, had to make use of the powers conferred on him by the Constitution, with a view to implementing the provisions of section III, concerning eligibility, of the programme of the Government of National Reconciliation annexed to the Linas- Marcoussis Agreement, for the end of the month of September 2004. The National Assembly was due to be convened in special session before the end of August 2004 in order to consider and adopt all the legislative texts provided for in the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement. The political forces of Côte d’Ivoire committed themselves to beginning the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programme by 15 October 2004 at the latest. Moreover, they requested that the Prime Minister and the Government set a timetable for the restoration of State administration and public services throughout national territory. As of today, the results of the reforms are as follows: On the political level, we should note the reintegration of the three ministers who were dismissed from the Government of National Reconciliation and the signing of a decree delegating powers to the Prime Minister. Thanks to these developments, the Government of National Reconciliation resumed its activities, as shown by the meetings Council of Ministers held since then, in which all members of the Government participated. On the legislative level, I am pleased to note the convening of the deputies in a special session as of 11 August 2004 to consider the most recent texts resulting from the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement. I would like to recall that the National Assembly has already adopted laws on amnesty; the identification of individuals and the stay of foreigners in Côte d’Ivoire; the amendment of article 26 on rural land holdings; the financing of political parties, factions and electoral campaigns under public funding; the declaration of the national heritage by the President of the Republic; the ratification of the additional protocol that amends and supplements the provisions of article 7 of the protocol regarding the free movement of individuals and right of residence and of settlement, signed in Ouagadougou on 30 June 1989; and finally, the National Committee on Human Rights in Côte d’Ivoire. Several texts are currently being discussed in Parliament, and others are not yet under the ambit of that institution. The latter include draft laws dealing with a revision of article 35 of the constitution on criteria for eligibility for the presidency of the Republic; the legal regime for audio- visual communication; the status of the opposition; the declaration of assets of elected individuals; and the suppression of profiteering. Regarding the military, the desire for peace is clear. Thus, after a pause of several months, the so- called quadripartite meetings, which bring together the defence and security forces and the armed forces of the Forces nouvelles under the aegis of impartial forces, that is, the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire (UNOCI) and Operation Licorne, have resumed. Athletic events have been taking place recently between the national armed forces and those of the Forces nouvelles in an atmosphere of fraternity and good cheer. It should be recalled that, since 4 July 2003, the Government forces and the armed forces of the Forces nouvelles have signed an agreement marking the end of the war, and this agreement has been respected since then. I would also like to emphasize that, according to the commander of the UNOCI military force, more than 90 per cent of the troops of the United Nations peacekeeping force are already deployed in Côte d’Ivoire. All that is needed now is military logistics support for this force to be entirely operational. Regarding the redeployment of the administration in those areas which have been subjected to war, this operation is gradually continuing, to the satisfaction of local populations, particularly in the west of the country. As to alleged human rights violations following the crisis, Côte d’Ivoire has, out of a concern to combat impunity, above all, indicated its will to be open to all visits or investigations — which, in fact, it has itself requested — in order to appropriately asses the situation. In this regard, I can state that Côte d’Ivoire received a visit in January and February 2004 from the special rapporteurs on freedom of opinion and expression, the elimination of racial discrimination and migrants and mercenaries. During their missions, they had full and total cooperation from the authorities in 25 Côte d’Ivoire. The same is true for the international commission of inquiry into allegations of violations of human rights of 25 and 26 March 2004, and the national commission of inquiry set up in June 2004 to shed light on all alleged human rights violations committed in Côte d’Ivoire since 19 September 2002. That latter commission, which has just concluded its work, should shed light on all allegations of human rights violations in Côte d’Ivoire, including those recently committed in Korhogo. Moreover, the National Assembly of Côte d’Ivoire, for its part, has established a parliamentary commission of inquiry designed to investigate the events of 19 December 2002 and subsequent events, in order to achieve, we all hope, genuine peace and reconciliation. National peace and reconciliation are incompatible with impunity. The international community should therefore assist Côte d’Ivoire in identifying the perpetrators of human rights and international humanitarian law violations in order to bring them to justice before the competent authorities. We are starting afresh; we can now lay down the burden of our past concerns to embark on the path of hope. All citizens of Côte d’Ivoire without exception are determined to silence those rivalries that only spawn hate and rancour and to pool our efforts in the service of peace through dialogue. This is why we are counting on the ongoing support of the international community for our efforts at consolidating inter- Ivorian dialogue, the principal means for a restoration of confidence, peace and national reconciliation. The Government of Côte d’Ivoire therefore takes note of the statement to the press today by the President of the Security Council on the situation in Côte d’Ivoire, a statement that our Government considers as a step forward to finding a rapid solution to the crisis. Côte d’Ivoire is also counting on the assistance of international financial institutions and of developed countries for the implementation of the national programme of reconstruction and, in particular, of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration. Allow me to indicate here that the security index of the United Nations at its present level is unfortunately a factor that is not facilitating contacts and therefore the start of negotiations with international financial institutions. A review that would lower this level would be most welcome. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to reiterate yet once again the gratitude of the people and the Government of Côte d’Ivoire to the international community, in particular to France, the United States, Canada, all other friendly countries, the United Nations, the International Organization of la Francophonie, the European Union, the African Union and ECOWAS for their invaluable contributions, which have made it possible to overcome so many obstacles to date. The situation in Côte d’Ivoire is not preventing us from seeing what is taking place elsewhere, above all on the African continent. The West African subregion is facing crises in Liberia, Guinea-Bissau, Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire. Glimmers of hope for shortly putting an end to these situations do exist, but that optimism is clearly tempered by the continuation of such scourges as trafficking in children, drug trafficking, trafficking in small arms, mercenaries, child soldiers and terrorism, to name only these few. Thus, the strengthening of a coordinated battle against these scourges, under the aegis of ECOWAS and with the assistance of the international community, is necessary. Côte d’Ivoire is a party to all existing conflict prevention and management mechanisms and intends to be fully involved in all initiatives undertaken to promote peace and stability on the global, continental and regional level. In that framework, it is contributing to the drawing up of a strategy for a pacification and stabilization of the West African region. The situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi, Darfur in Somalia, the Middle East, and Iraq cannot be ignored and require sustained attention on the part of the international community. They also undeniably demonstrate the need for a strengthening of multilateralism in the settlement of the conflicts battering the world. Regarding a reform of the United Nations, and particularly reform of the Security Council, I should like to reaffirm the support of Côte d’Ivoire for the shared African position, voiced several times here from this rostrum, in favour of an expanded Security Council with two permanent seats and three other non- permanent seats for Africa. The countries of the Third World, which must cope with numerous difficulties, clearly cannot achieve the Millennium Development Goals while 2015 is 26 rapidly approaching. However, far from being overcome by defeatism, Africa has acquired a new instrument for development, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), and its recommendations are integrated into national and subregional development and anti-poverty strategies. The African continent awaits the international community’s implementation of commitments resulting from the major international conferences, in particular those undertaken by the Group of Eight for NEPAD. I would like to conclude my remarks with an appeal for solidarity to all, given the numerous dangers threatening peace and international security. In that context, Côte d’Ivoire urges respect for commitments and peace agreements concluded together by all States. In the view of my country, this active and relentless commitment to preventing conflicts includes at least three elements: preventive diplomacy, based on a system of early warning; education for peace; and, finally, the struggle against poverty in order to ensure sustainable development. Therefore, once the conditions for a peaceful existence have thus been fulfilled, the entire world will be able to move forward towards a world of shared well-being and happiness.I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. This election is a tribute to Africa and to the brotherly State of Gabon. I am sure that you will carry on the commendable work initiated by your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, with a view to revitalizing the role played by the United Nations and to enhancing its prestige. I should also like to pay tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, for his untiring efforts to achieve the objectives of our Organization. I want to assure him, once again, of our trust in him and of our full support. The world today is faced with major risks and perils of such magnitude that a renewed multilateral system is required. In that regard, we must ask ourselves if the United Nations system, in its present form, is capable of providing effective solutions to the numerous problems that are disrupting the international order. The end of the cold war, along with progress in science and technology and the opening of markets, should have led to greater security and prosperity, but, instead, the world is still encountering distressing conflicts, which cause considerable human and material loss, to the detriment of development. Human values and ideals are on the decline, while fanaticism, extremism and terrorism are on the rise. The gap between a rich North and a poor South is widening. It is Africa that suffers the most from the scourges of poverty, hunger, desertification and deadly epidemics, in addition to the problems of illegal immigration, refugees and forced displacement. The countries of the South cannot effectively cope with these scourges on their own without successful regional and international coordination, as well as effective support for local development efforts. These problems, and their pernicious impact, which is compounded by ethnic strife as well as by regional tensions and conflicts, not only cause terrible suffering but also hamper progress, development, regional integration and the transition towards democracy. The international community is therefore called upon to pool its efforts so that the logic of dialogue and negotiation may prevail over that of force, destruction and war. It must give fresh impetus to preventive diplomacy, at the regional and international levels, in order to preserve peace and security on our continent. In that regard, Morocco considers that the artificial dispute over the Sahara is, regrettably, still hindering the establishment of the Arab Maghreb Union. I should like to reiterate my countryís readiness to cooperate in a sincere and determined way with the United Nations and all the parties concerned in order to achieve, within the framework of international legality, a final, negotiated political solution that would guarantee the sovereignty, national unity and territorial integrity of the Kingdom of Morocco, and enable the inhabitants of its southern provinces to manage their regional affairs by themselves, in a democratic, stable environment conducive to integrated development. Such a solution would spare the area the risk of becoming a hotbed of tension. It would also foster Maghreb integration and enable the region fully to play its role in the Mediterranean and in its relations with African countries of the Sahel, thereby sparing the whole of north-west Africa the risk of Balkanization and the threats of international terrorism. As an active member of the African family and of the international community, the Kingdom of Morocco is keen to continue cooperating with the United Nations and the world community to settle disputes through peaceful means, volunteering to participate in United Nations peacekeeping missions, as is currently the case in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in CÙte díIvoire. Morocco is also eager to help bring about reconciliation and the settlement of disputes through peaceful means, as illustrated by the mediation undertaken by my country to resolve the crisis in the Mano River region. Morocco takes pride in contributing to African endeavours designed to meet the challenge of achieving peace, development, progress and good governance ó the very objectives of the New Partnership for Africaís Development. Since the accomplishment of those ambitious goals exceeds the capabilities of African countries and requires considerable resources, I urge the international community to support this initiative and to find generous and effective solutions to the debt problem. Morocco has already taken steps in that direction. As far as the Arab-Israeli conflict is concerned, my country is as determined as ever to work with the international community to find a just, comprehensive 23 and lasting solution within the framework of international legality - a solution that guarantees Israelís withdrawal from all occupied Arab territories and the establishment of a viable, independent Palestinian State, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, living side by side, in peace and concord, with the State of Israel. I should like to stress that, as Chairman of the Al-Quds Committee, I am always ready to undertake whatever initiatives are needed and to support meaningful endeavours to restore peace to this region, warning anew of the negative implications of the violation of religious sanctities. Morocco hopes that no effort will be spared to help brotherly Iraq out of its current predicament and to support its Interim Government in its efforts to ensure stability and security for Iraqis and to create the right conditions to initiate constructive dialogue and organize elections which will enable all components of the Iraqi population to choose their institutions freely and peacefully. In order to meet the challenges at this turning point in history, the international community has no alternative but to revitalize the current multilateral system. After the First and Second World Wars, nations realized that it was necessary to establish a global system to govern international relations, within the framework of law and legality. Setting up an alternative global system would not resolve the problem of the fierce trade wars currently raging worldwide, nor the ethnic conflicts, ideological fanaticism and perils of terrorism, whether latent or apparent. I am convinced that the United Nations, which has helped solve countless crises, is perfectly capable of managing the current international situation in a peaceful and civilized way, by revitalizing the multilateral system. Such an objective, however, can be achieved only if the United Nations is provided with the kind of resources and means needed to meet the geo-strategic requirements of the twenty-first century, and if its working methods and its organs ó including the Security Council ó are reformed and invigorated. The United Nations system would then become an ideal forum for negotiation and interaction between cultures and religions. Furthermore, it would be effectively instrumental in upholding human ideals, enhancing security and stability and promoting sustainable development. Morocco, through its chairmanship of the Group of 77 and China and its participation in various regional and international events, including the Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg conferences, has sought to contribute effectively to building this multilateral system, as a top priority on its diplomatic agenda. My country will continue to work for the implementation of the Millennium Goals, urging countries as well as international financial and trade institutions to honour their obligations. Morocco reaffirms its commitment to support the emergence of a new multilateral system built on international legality, justice and equity and cooperation in social and economic relations, and based on an efficient and dynamic United Nations system. This is the course of action to be taken to enhance trust in the United Nations as the conscience of humankind and the bedrock of a new world order, where the values of peace, global security, joint development, equality, tolerance, democracy and solidarity prevail.I am delighted to congratulate Mr. Ping, a distinguished son of Africa, upon his election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. Indeed, at a time when the community of nations has committed itself to paying due attention to issues that relate to development in Africa through support for the New Partnership for Africaís Development and other mechanisms, his presidency gives us the hope and confidence that our concerns and aspirations and those of others will remain high on the agenda of this body. Let me also express our sincere appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for the efficient and exemplary manner in which he conducted the business of the fifty- eighth session. At the fifty-eighth session, I spoke alongside others about the need to reform the United Nations and its related bodies so as to make them more democratic. I stressed the perils inherent in the status quo, particularly with regard to the dominance of global politics by one super-Power and its closest allies. While we welcome the current debate on enhancing the authority and role of the United Nations, we wish to stress the need to address the core issue of the democratization of international governance. Debate on the reform of the Security Council has been too long drawn out because of attempts calculated to protect those whose interests are best served by the status quo. Ironically, it is some of those same forces that, since last year, have been raining bombs and hellfire on innocent Iraqis purportedly in the name of democracy. Iraq today has become a vast inferno created by blatant and completely illegal and defiant acts of aggression by the United States, Britain and their allies, in the full trail of which the world has witnessed mass destruction of both human lives and property, and with them our human rights, values, morality and the norms of international law as enshrined in our Charter. We are now being coerced into accepting and believing that a new political-cum-religious doctrine has arisen, namely, that there is but one political god - George W. Bush - and that Tony Blair is his prophet. It is the Koran writ anew in Baghdad. The United Nations Charter remains the only and most sacred document and proponent of the relations of our nations. Anything else is political heresy. We note that the Secretary-General has placed before the General Assembly the report of the Panel of Eminent Persons on United Nations-Civil Society Relations. While civil society makes a significant contribution to the work of the United Nations, we hope that any arrangements that will eventually be agreed upon will recognize that the United Nations remains an inter-State and intergovernmental body. It is also our expectation that the conclusions of the debate will recognize the different levels of development of civil society in different parts of the world. As we prepare for the mid-term review of the implementation of the Millennium Declaration in September 2005, it is apparent that many developing countries, including my own country, Zimbabwe, may be unable to meet the goals and targets set, as our subregion of southern Africa has in recent years experienced extended and successive periods of inclement weather, principally droughts, that have wreaked havoc upon our economies and accordingly diminished our capacity to achieve the Millennium Declaration targets. The situation, particularly with regards to the health and education sectors, has also been worsened by the brain drain and the devastating effects of the HIV and AIDS pandemic. In that regard, Zimbabwe welcomes the continuing efforts of this community of nations to find solutions to the scourge of HIV and AIDS that has ravaged our peoples and economies. At the national level, we have taken measures, within our limited means, to combat the pandemic. We are also coordinating our efforts at the Southern African Development Community (SADC) level. Regrettably, we continue to see an unfortunate and futile tendency to use assistance in this area as a reward for political 26 compliance and malleability, making it unavailable to countries whose Governments are deemed ìinconvenientî. Let it be realized that the pandemic does not respect boundaries and that these self-serving, selective approaches will have little or no meaningful results. Zimbabwe has also had to withstand unprovoked declared and undeclared sanctions, imposed by Britain and its allies, which are bent on bringing down our legitimately elected Government. Mr. Tony Blair, the British Prime Minister, has arrogantly and unashamedly announced in his Parliament that his Government was working with Zimbabwe's opposition party to bring about regime change. Once again, the lawless nature of that man who, along with his Washington master, believes he is God-ordained to rule our world, has shown itself. Regime change is the inalienable right of the Zimbabwean people, who, through their sovereign vote, can make and unmake our Governments. In any case, we reject completely the assertions of, and pretence to, democracy by our former colonial masters, whose undemocratic regimes we taught the lesson of one man ó or one woman ó one vote through our armed liberation struggles. As we in Africa look at the situation here in the United States, we are aware of the plight of the black people ó Afro-Americans ó of both yesterday and today and of the semi-slave, half-citizen status that has been their burden. Do the blacks in the United States have the same political, social and economic rights and status as their white counterparts? When we will we ever have a black ó African-American ó President of the United States? Never, ever. Why? I wish to take this opportunity to express the appreciation of my Government and that of the people of Zimbabwe for the humanitarian assistance we received from the international community during our period of need. Without such support, we would not have been able to avert a major catastrophe. I am pleased to inform you, Sir, that we have, in spite of the sanctions and evil wishes of Britain and its allies, now emerged from that difficult phase. We had a relatively good agricultural season this year, and our land reform programme has begun to make a significant contribution towards the turnaround of our economy. Despite the partial drought at the beginning of the season, we have managed this year to realize a good harvest ó certainly one good enough to ensure that we meet our food requirements until the next season. We plead with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to stop its strange political mouthings, lies and fabrications about our situation. Our own regional organizations know the truth about Zimbabwe. We urge the IMF to listen to them, and, for once, to be clean. My Government is determined to eliminate corruption and its corrosive effects on national development efforts. After signing the International Convention against Corruption in November last year, we put in place legal and administrative measures that have already arrested a growing and deliberate tendency to circumvent normal business practices, particularly in the financial-services sector. We have, however, experienced some setbacks in our efforts, as some countries, particularly in the developed West, continue to provide safe havens for fugitive economic saboteurs from our country. In March next year, Zimbabwe will be holding its sixth democratic parliamentary elections since independence in 1980. Those elections, like others before them, will be conducted in accordance with our national laws and the SADC principles and guidelines governing democratic elections, recently adopted by our subregion. We do not need any lessons from the Netherlands or its imperialist allies from the European Union on this question. Zimbabwe will indeed welcome to the elections those observers whose sole and undivided purpose is to observe the process and not to meddle in the politics of the country. The fight against international terrorism has exposed the duplicity and insincerity of erstwhile leading democracies and human rights monitors with regard to the question of the observance of human rights. We have seen established international conventions thrown to the dogs, and resolutions of the General Assembly and other United Nations bodies on this issue have come to naught. We are seriously concerned at the fact that the United Nations, the pre-eminent instrument for the maintenance of international peace and security, watched helplessly while Iraq was unlawfully attacked and plundered by the United States and United Kingdom-led so-called coalition of the willing. Such belligerent, gunslinging diplomacy and the illegitimate territorial occupation of the State of Iraq are blemishes on the fair-play image of the United Nations. 27 While the sadistic scenes from Abu Ghraib remain vivid in our minds, other places in Iraq, as well as Guantanamo Bay, have provided useful samples of the Western concept of respect for human rights. Let me say once again that the West should spare us their lessons on human rights. They do not have the moral authority to speak about, let alone parade themselves as torch-bearers of, human rights. Zimbabwe remains deeply concerned about the situation in the Middle East. We continue to be revolted by a situation where the collective decisions and authority of the United Nations are disregarded with impunity on account of big-brother support. We demand an immediate lifting of all restrictions illegally imposed on the Palestinian people, which have seen President Yasser Arafat remain a virtual prisoner of foreign occupation. We welcome the recent opinion given by the International Court of Justice that found the construction of the Israeli wall to be in contravention of international law, and the subsequent General Assembly resolution that demanded an immediate halt to that monstrosity. As the Assembly is aware, the African Union earlier this year established its own Peace and Security Council to seek and promote African solutions to African problems. Already, the Council is seized with the matter of the crisis in western Sudan. Those efforts need the support of the international community. Let me conclude by assuring Mr. Ping of my countryís support as he presides over the work of the General Assembly at this session. I wish also to reiterate my countryís commitment positively to contribute to the fulfilment of the aims and purposes of the United Nations.At the outset, allow me, on behalf of the Government and people of Solomon Islands, to convey to you our warm and sincere congratulations on your election as President of this session of the United Nations General Assembly. May I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, our colleague, the Honourable Julian Hunte, Foreign Minister of Saint Lucia, for his able and sterling stewardship in making the Assembly’s fifty-eighth session proactive and responsive to the challenges it has faced over the last 12 months. I also wish to express our deep appreciation to the United Nations Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his focused leadership in steering the work of the Secretariat through difficult and sometimes uncharted waters over the past year. Only four years into the new millennium, the complexity of ongoing and new challenges has redefined the international system, resulting in uncertainty and imbalances in certain parts of the globe. Ensuing debates over multilateralism versus unilateralism in the resolution of crisis situations have epitomized the complex nature of events during the past year. This makes the call two years ago by our Secretary-General for institutional reforms more urgent now than ever before. Solomon Islands looks forward to the recommendations of the High-level Panel of Eminent Persons, in particular, to proposals that will revitalize and give new momentum to the United Nations. These reforms must ensure that the United Nations is flexible and responsive to the needs of our time. To this end, Solomon Islands fully supports the proposed enlargement of the Council and reaffirms its call for Japan and Germany to become permanent members of the Council. We believe that the enlargement should affect both the permanent and non-permanent membership categories. It is also our fervent hope and desire to see that the Secretariat reflects the diversity of its membership. In this regard, while it should continue to recruit the best available candidates, opportunities within the Secretariat must be made available to small island countries on the basis of in- country, rather than externally conducted, assessment examinations. As you are aware, this year the United Nations family marked the tenth anniversary of the ethnic 15 genocide in Rwanda. The occasion called on the United Nations to play a more proactive role towards ensuring that such tragic events are never allowed to happen again. No more than four years ago, my own country, Solomon Islands, experienced the hardship of a conflict situation when tensions erupted between two of the many ethnic groups in the country. In response, Solomon Islands sought assistance from every possible institution, including the Security Council. In this regard, I am pleased to say that my region, through the Pacific Islands Forum under its security mechanism as enshrined in the Biketawa Declaration, responded to that “911” call. The Pacific Islands Forum regional security mechanism is in harmony with the spirit of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter. The Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands (RAMSI), led by our bigger regional neighbour, Australia, strongly supported by New Zealand and other Pacific Islands Forum member countries, went beyond the mere restoration of law and order and security. In a spirit of Pacific cooperation and partnership between Solomon Islands and Pacific Islands Forum member countries, a long-term approach of strengthening the country’s State institutions was set in place, thus allowing the process of healing, reconstruction, rehabilitation and nation-building to continue the course of unifying the country and its less than half a million, but diverse, inhabitants, who speak some 80 different local languages. The success of the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands in promptly stabilizing the country within a period of three months, collecting some 3,700 weapons without a shot being fired, presents a fine example of the importance of regional cooperation in resolving conflict situations. On this note, I wish to pay tribute to all our Pacific neighbours and to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Commission for Human Rights, the World Health Organization (WHO), the European Union (EU), the Republic of China, Japan, the United Kingdom, the International Red Cross and the civil society; they have assisted and are continuing to assist in the process of our country’s ongoing recovery and rehabilitation. I must also underscore my belief and conviction that in order for peace to be achieved it must be desired; moreover, I would add, there must be a workable mechanism to ensure its realization and sustenance. In this regard, my Government is fully convinced that the positive results of our partnership with RAMSI could be sustained through our recently adopted National Economic Recovery, Reform and Development Plan (NERRDP), which provides a blueprint for an integrated process of development and nation-building for the common good of our people. I am further convinced, that the Pacific Plan recently adopted by the Pacific Islands Forum leaders in Apia, Samoa, represents a regional road map for cooperation that could complement national efforts aimed at building an improved and secure livelihood for the diverse people of the region. Through its creation of stronger and deeper links between countries in the region and resource-sharing, including governance and aligning of policies, the Pacific Plan could assist our countries to address challenges and issues that sovereign member States may lack the ability and capacity to address individually as a result of our countries’ smallness and inherent limitations caused by economies of scale. Solomon Islands notes the positive developments that have taken place in the peace process on Bougainville. We recognize the important role played by the United Nations in the peace process there and would urge its continuing involvement to see the process through. Solomon Islands, for its part, has signed a number of bilateral agreements with Papua New Guinea, which will support the good work that has already been undertaken towards peace. On the issue of Palestine, my delegation subscribes to the view that the resolution of the Middle East conflict can only be possible through negotiations. It is in this spirit that we call upon all parties to abide by the Quartet’s road map for peace, and we urge a halt to all acts of aggression. Turning to the global fight against terrorism, the recent terrorist attacks, especially in Iraq, Indonesia, and the Beslan school in southern Russia manifest the continuing menace and evil of terrorism at large. We have witnessed many innocent lives, including those of women and children, being lost due to these senseless terror attacks. My delegation offers its deepest condolences to those who have lost loved ones during these unforgivable incidents. Solomon Islands condemns in the strongest possible terms such acts of terror and fully support international efforts to combat this scourge. In this regard, I wish to join others in calling on the global community to support small States to build their national capacities towards ongoing efforts aimed at combating transnational 16 crimes, such as arms smuggling, drug trafficking, people smuggling, money laundering and terrorism. The United Nations Charter promotes the economic and social progress of Member States, especially those facing special development problems. For a country recovering from a post-conflict situation, Solomon Islands considers international frameworks such as the Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries, and the Barbados Programme of Action for Small Island Developing States as vehicles for enhancing peace and achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Solomon Islands is a small island developing State and a least developed country, where its development challenges are multifaceted in nature. Unfortunately, the level of international cooperation envisaged for the Programmes either have not materialized or have been minimal. Despite this, my Government is undertaking reforms that include the appointment of a national focal point for the Brussels Programme of Action. Hence, we are hopeful that, with better coordination, Solomon Islands can take full advantage of and maximize all opportunities the Programme has to offer. The issue of debt-servicing continues to present challenges, and even obstacles, to the development programmes of many poor developing States. Debt burdens continue to divert attention in national budgets away from the development of necessary infrastructures and the delivery of basic and essential social services. Solomon Islands therefore calls on the international community to give greater attention to debt issues. Solomon Islands attaches much importance to the Millennium Development Goals, and these have been mainstreamed into our NERRDP. While we will use the 2005 high-level event mentioned in the Secretary General’s 2004 report on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals to take stock of our progress, we are confident that NERRDP can serve as a road map for the medium to long-term implementation of our commitments. NERRDP provides a useful framework within which important issues, such as economic and institutional reform, good governance, upholding of democracy and its values of freedom, and respect for the basic principles of human rights can be nurtured and harnessed for the betterment and improvement of the livelihood of our people and society, including the sustenance of peace in our country. Solomon Islands would like to pay closer attention to the emerging health threats it faces. In particular, malaria remains the predominant cause of death of among children in Solomon Islands. The lack of data on HIV/AIDS presents a threat to the country and has the potential of creating a devastating impact on its economy and social structure. With the support of WHO, the Global Fund to fight AIDS and Japan, we are determined to put in place appropriate preventive actions. Solomon Islands, which is geographically scattered across some 1,800 kilometres, comprising almost 1,000 small islands and atolls, has an agriculture-based economy that is dependent on the environment. Sustainable management of resources is essential for guaranteeing the security of future generations. The hurricanes that hit the southern United States, the Bahamas, Grenada, Haiti and Jamaica in the Caribbean in the recent past; cyclone Heita, which devastated Niue in 2003; flooding in Fiji; and continuous heavy rains in Solomon Islands all bring home the stark reality of our world’s vulnerability to natural disasters. We realize the great difficulty and pain that smaller island developing States face in mitigating the magnitude and impact of such disasters. To this end, we extend our condolences and sympathy for the loss of life and property caused by the recent hurricanes in Grenada and Haiti and would urge the international community to assist in relief efforts to those who are affected. Generally, Solomon Islands strongly feels that more could be done by the international community towards safeguarding our environment. Hence, we acknowledge the partnership of the Global Fund in assisting environmental programmes globally, and we would encourage that the focus of further assistance should extend to other sectors of sustainable development, such as energy, water and sanitation. My delegation has closely followed the review of the Barbados Programme of Action and the development of a Group of 77 strategy paper. While negotiations are still ongoing, Solomon Islands, as a member of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), acknowledges that the strategy paper strengthens the Barbados Programme and places it as an action-oriented programme with which we can all identify. We are hopeful the Mauritius meeting will revitalize our efforts towards protecting the environment and enhancing sustainable development. 17 Trade remains a significant source of economic growth and development for many developing States. Regionally, Pacific island countries have gradually begun the process of regional integration. South-South trade cooperation among Forum island countries culminated in the entry into force of the Pacific Island Countries Trade Agreement last year, and the Melanesian Spearhead Group trade agreement is being reviewed with a view to further broadening its scope and its markets 10 years after its inception. The Pacific members of the Africa, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States are negotiating an economic partnership agreement with the European Union in the framework of the Cotonou Agreement. Those developments manifest continuing preparations by small island developing economies in the Pacific Islands Forum region for gradual adaptation into the broader process of the globalization of the world economy. Solomon Islands notes that the eleventh session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, convened in June this year in São Paulo, built confidence and consensus on ongoing multilateral trade negotiations. Solomon Islands supports that process and urges making it more participatory and inclusive so that no one is left behind, especially the small and vulnerable island developing economies and the least developed countries. We are mindful of the need to recognize the inherent structural problems of geographical size, isolation from markets and the constraints resulting from a lack of supply-side capacities and economies of scale, especially in the case of small island developing States such as Solomon Islands. However, as a member of the World Trade Organization, we are pleased that the Doha round of multilateral trade negotiations embraces a development dimension, in particular the recognition of the principle of special and differential treatment, in its work programme on small island developing economies. One of the principles of the United Nations Charter is to open membership to all States that accept their Charter obligations. The Republic of China on Taiwan has registered its interest in being part of the United Nations family. Solomon Islands once again calls for the Republic of China to be made a full Member of the United Nations. Solomon Islands enjoys warm and cordial relations with the Republic of China and is mindful of the threats facing the world today. Threats such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) are transnational and transborder in nature and require the cooperation and engagement of all countries of the world. To deny one country the right to participate weakens global mechanisms and jeopardizes the security of all. The Republic of China on Taiwan is democratic, and its vibrant economy is ranked seventeenth globally. It has the third largest foreign exchange reserves. Its development experience offers important lessons on the need to embrace freedom, respect for the basic principles of human rights, respect for freedom of the press and the uninhibited functioning of democratic institutions. The Republic of China’s ability and capacity to contribute to strengthening the United Nations should be seriously considered, especially at a time when the Organization could do with all the help it can receive. Solomon Islands calls upon the Assembly to find a process that will allow the Republic of China on Taiwan to become a full and equal Member of the United Nations. The Pacific Islands Forum has a mechanism that engages both Chinas in our dialogue process, and we have continuously benefited from that rich interaction. To conclude, I call upon the Assembly to get real and confront the increasingly varied and complex challenges we face today. The purpose and the role of the United Nations are ultimately to create a peaceful, just and prosperous world that offers hope to all. That requires making the Organization flexible, innovative and responsive to ever-changing global demands. Thus, the onus is on us to make bold and tough decisions that breathe new life into our Organization.It is a special honour for me, as a member of the new Government of Luxembourg and its Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration, to take the floor for the first time before this gathering of the nations of the world. You, sir, have acceded to the presidency of the General Assembly at a time when decisions fraught with consequences for the future of our Organization must be prepared and discussed. Our Secretary-General has reminded us that the United Nations is at a crossroads. I have no doubt that, under your skilled and wise leadership, our General Assembly will be able effectively and decisively to provide constructive and consensual responses to the great issues of our time. The session ahead, leading us to the commemoration of the sixtieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations, must be one of renewal for multilateralism. I can assure you, Sir, that my country — a founding Member of the United Nations — intends to contribute actively to that crucial work, in particular within the presidency of the Council of the European Union, to which Luxembourg will accede on 1 January 2005, following the current presidency of the Netherlands. It goes without saying that I fully subscribe to the statement made by my colleague, Mr. Bernard Bot, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, before this Assembly. From this moment until the sixtieth session of the General Assembly, three themes will be the focus of our attention: issues linked to the maintenance of peace and security; the complex question of development and its financing; and United Nations reform. We must begin this genuine relaunching of multilateral cooperation first of all in the area of the maintenance of peace and security, basing our action on the United Nations Charter. While regional crises and civil wars have multiplied in various areas of the globe, in particular on the African continent over the past year, history has taught us, often tragically and painfully, that peace and stability can only be maintained and guaranteed within the framework of an international order based on the rule of law and shared strong and effective institutions based on fundamental shared values. This has been stated in our superb Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the subsequent normative instruments that supplemented it. This is also the lesson learned from the fratricidal horrors and conflicts of the past century between member States of the European Union, which now we are gratified to see expanded to 25 members. In that context, we look with concern toward the Middle and Near East, where situations of tension and of open conflict seem to be worsening. Regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we must emphatically recall here, given a situation characterized by numerous impasses on all sides, that the path of negotiation and compromise remains the only reasonable path and that the road map remains the only way to achieve a negotiated solution between the parties, based on the coexistence of two States, namely, an independent and viable Palestinian State, living in peace next to Israel, within secure and recognized borders. This was also vigorously reaffirmed by the Quartet the day before yesterday. In the same way, any withdrawal by Israel from the Gaza Strip must take place within the context of the political process described by the road map. The unanimous adoption of Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) on the situation in Iraq and the subsequent restoration of Iraqi sovereignty constitute an important stage in the process of political, social and economic reconstruction of this battered country. The European Union, for its part, adopted in early September a set of measures designed to further strengthen the European commitment to Iraq. We hope that conditions will soon be such that the United Nations will be able to fully play its proper role, in particular regarding the political process, the preparation for elections, humanitarian assistance and reconstruction. Luxembourg has also been following with the greatest attention developments in the situation in the Great Lakes region, the Western Balkans, and, in particular, in Kosovo, as well as in Darfur in Sudan. My country fully associates itself with the positions presented here by my Dutch colleague on behalf of the European Union. 15 The preservation of peace, crisis prevention and management and peacekeeping are among the noblest tasks of our Organization. The Security Council has an important role to play here. We should not hesitate to consider innovative solutions in defining new approaches and institutional processes to strengthen our collective capacity for prevention and action on the basis of the Charter. Here I would like to welcome the measures taken by the Secretary-General regarding the prevention of genocide. I would venture to hope that the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change will be able to put before us proposals to both improve our capacity for shared action and cope with the new threats to peace and security, among which, first and foremost, are terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. United Nations instruments in fighting terrorism were recently enhanced by the adoption of Security Council resolution 1535 (2004) and the implementation measures which flow from it. However, the recent report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team of the Security Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999) concerning Al Qaeda and the Taliban and Associated Individuals and Entities reminded us that a great deal still remains to be done to put an end to these despicable and unacceptable practices which leave so many families throughout the world in mourning. The fight against terrorism cannot be won solely through the use of military and police means. We must strike at its roots, which spawn hate, brutality and the senseless destruction of human lives. The core of any multilateral system is the right of all peoples and every human being to live in peace and dignity. The threat of weapons of mass destruction also remains a concern of highest priority. While significant progress has been made, disturbing news has reached us over the last few months from other regions of the globe, in particular from Iran and from the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. In each of these cases, the necessary clarifications and full guarantees must be provided, particularly within the framework of strict respect for the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) regimes. Here, I would like to emphasize that the 2005 Review Conference of the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons must provide an opportunity for reaffirming the validity and relevance of the shared quest for solutions to the complex issues of non-proliferation. Regarding all of these cases linked to the maintenance of peace and international security, the United Nations will find a reliable and committed partner in the European Union, which has made the emergence of effective multilateralism one of its priorities for the security strategy it adopted in December 2003. It is, indeed, with pride that I add that Luxembourg has also been shouldering its peacekeeping responsibilities by contributing military contingents to the Kosovo Force and to the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan, which are now under the command of the European Corps. The issue of development is and must remain the focus of the international community’s attention. This is the most important point in this context. While millions of human beings continue to live in unacceptable conditions, our rallying around the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals must be constant and indeed stepped up, given the fact that many States, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, still experience extreme difficulty in making progress to meet the 2015 deadline. For its part, Luxembourg is ready to shoulder its duties in the indispensable joint international efforts. In 2003, our official development assistance (ODA) in Luxembourg reached 0.81 per cent of our gross national product and the goal of having this figure reach one per cent in the years to come is part of the programme of the new Government that was formed in July of this year. The struggle against poverty and the commitment to sustainable development on the global level are also major objectives of the policy of cooperation in Luxembourg, the policy that we are implementing together with our partners in a spirit of partnership and participation. In our actions to ensure cooperation, particular emphasis must be placed on the continuation of international efforts targeting reproductive health, in particular, combating the horrendous scourge of HIV/AIDS. In addition to an increase in ODA on the global scale, other sources of financing can be used, and the initiative of Presidents Lula and Chirac has charted the way for a number of interesting ideas in this respect. We believe that it is critical to maintain the Monterrey Consensus as a whole. Any effective development 16 strategy in the medium- and long-term must be based on a proper combination of elements such as ODA, international trade, direct foreign investment and the domestic efforts of the countries involved, particularly regarding capacity reinforcement, strengthening of governance and the rule of law. In this regard, I am convinced that all efforts must be further developed to achieve a positive conclusion to the Doha development round. As Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration, I must mention an innovation in our national political context, as did our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on 29 January 2004, in an inciteful speech to the European Parliament in Brussels regarding the growing importance of the problem of migration, particularly for Europe. This issue must be addressed through a careful management of migration flows by focusing on integration and international cooperation. Decisive action against organized crime, in particular crime linked to any kind of trafficking in human beings, is an indispensable corollary to this. We are called upon to step up our efforts during the year to come to prepare for a significant event, namely, the September 2005 summit, and which, in United Nations jargon, is being called the “major event”. Five years after the Millennium Summit, this meeting of the highest political leaders on the planet should provide an opportunity to define a new synthesis — a new global agenda — at the dawn of the twenty-first century. Indeed, we face many significant challenges. Together, we must review all of the commitments undertaken in the Millennium Declaration and at the major conferences of the 1990s, assess their implementation and, within the Organization, make any adjustments and adaptations that a changing global context requires — all without compromising the level of the shared ambitions that inspire us. We must see to it that the new global agenda expresses the hopes and aspirations of the entire international community. In particular, development must continue to be a focus of the attention it deserves. There is also a need to open our Organization up to the new debates and the new issues that are emerging in the area of the maintenance of peace and security. None of the foregoing issues are fiefdoms of a particular State or group of States. Rather, they are concerns shared by all Member States and, as such, must be managed jointly within the multilateral institutions that form our common heritage. The vitality and relevance of our Organization is the key to the effort to redefine the terms of the international agenda by giving priority to the concepts of interdependence and solidarity. While the goals are vital, the risks are significant, and, together, we must chart a coordinated, inclusive and balanced path that will allow each and every one of us to participate fully and to express our aspirations and expectations. To achieve those lofty goals we need, first of all, to promote the development of a new mindset in our deliberations. After the divisions and controversies of recent years, the international community must once again come together and close ranks around shared, joint objectives. In that way the United Nations will remain the pre-eminent seat of international legitimacy and a vital centre for multilateral action, as the Secretary-General recently said. It is that new mindset that must inspire our shared activities as we move towards next year’s major event. We also need to agree on a procedure that will ensure the participation of all, guarantee the necessary balance among the various aspects of the process and guide us towards greater coordination on the substance of the political messages to be formulated. In all events, rest assured that my country and its partners in the European Union are ready to participate fully in that debate. In the context of a renewal of multilateralism, as I have tried to outline it here, reform of the United Nations has pride of place. Our institutions must be better adapted to meet new challenges, as well as to fulfil their present mandates. The genuine renewal of the United Nations system must be reflected in a palpable strengthening of the tools for analysis, decision and action available to us. Effective multilateralism must be expressed through the strengthening of the United Nations system as a whole. By adopting a more global approach, we see reform not as a zero-sum game, but as a positive-sum game, in which each player and each institution benefits from the new impetus thus provided. Significant progress was already made in the revitalization of the General Assembly during the fifty- eighth session, under the leadership of the former President, Mr. Julian Hunte. Those efforts now remain 17 to be translated into action as well as continued and intensified. Security Council reform, which has been in discussion for more than a decade, must be carried out, so that that vital body can better reflect the realities of today’s world; indeed, it is both a prerequisite for the Council’s legitimacy and a guarantee for the effectiveness of its action. More active interaction between the Security Council and the General Assembly and a better coordination of their roles, as well as enhanced transparency regarding States not members of the Security Council, should form the framework of any future enlargement of the Council. The restructuring of the work of the Economic and Social Council and the Main Committees of the General Assembly should be conducted with determination and courage so that more focused and better organized activities can gain greater relevance and have greater political impact on the substantive problems being addressed. The strengthening of the rule of law on a global scale, as called for by the Secretary-General, and, in particular, the consolidation and ultimate universalization of the International Criminal Court, should be among our highest priorities, along with the protection of human rights — the vital importance of which I would like to emphasize once again. Finally, I would be remiss were I to fail to mention the Secretariat staff and other United Nations personnel, who are carrying out an extraordinarily difficult mission with courage and dedication, and indeed sometimes, as we know, risking their very lives. It is crucial that we be able, within the framework of this year’s budgetary discussions for the year, to provide the Organization with the resources, particularly the financial resources to fulfil the mandates that we have conferred upon it, especially in regard to peacekeeping operations. It is also vital that the Organization adopt a rigorous policy regarding the protection of United Nations personnel, who are acting on our behalf in often dangerous conditions in all corners of the globe. It seems that to put a curse on someone, one has only to wish for them to live in interesting times. I do not know if we are living under a curse, but I do know that we are living in an interesting time: a time of debate, a time of restructuring, a time of choice and of the relaunching of international cooperation. Let us seize this opportunity and breathe new life into the United Nations, which has been proven itself to be indispensable. But let us also admit that the choice of multilateralism is a demanding one, and one that requires of us all an increased readiness to call into question our old certainties and to accept new approaches within a renewed institutional framework. On the path towards that renewal, let us draw inspiration from the magnificent lines of the Spanish poet, Antonio Machado, and I quote: “Traveller, your footsteps Are the road, and nothing else; Traveller, there is no road. The road is made by walking; Walking makes the road”. I am confident that together we will have the vision and the courage to take that first step, and the steps that follow, on that ambitious path.Thank you for the honour of addressing the General Assembly. The American people respect the idealism that gave life to this Organization. And we respect the men and women of the United Nations, who stand for peace and human rights in every part of the world. Welcome to New York City, and welcome to the United States of America. During the past three years, I have addressed the General Assembly in a time of tragedy for my country, and in times of decision for all of us. Now we gather at a time of tremendous opportunity for the United Nations and for all peaceful nations. For decades, the circle of liberty, security and development has been expanding in our world. This progress has brought unity to Europe, self-government to Latin America and Asia and new hope to Africa. Now we have the historic 8 chance to widen the circle even further, to fight radicalism and terror with justice and dignity and to achieve a true peace, founded on human freedom. The United Nations and my country share the deepest commitments. Both the American Declaration of Independence and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaim the equal value and dignity of every human life. That dignity is honoured by the rule of law, limits on the power of the State, respect for women, protection of private property, free speech, equal justice and religious tolerance. That dignity is dishonoured by oppression, corruption, tyranny, bigotry, terrorism and all violence against the innocent. Both our founding documents affirm that this bright line between justice and injustice — between right and wrong — is the same in every age, every culture and every nation. Wise Governments also stand for these principles for very practical and realistic reasons. We know that dictators are quick to choose aggression, while free nations strive to resolve differences in peace. We know that oppressive Governments support terror, while free Governments fight the terrorists in their midst. We know that free peoples embrace progress and life, instead of becoming the recruits for murderous ideologies. Every nation that wants peace will share the benefits of a freer world. And every nation that seeks peace has an obligation to help build that world. Eventually there is no safe isolation from terror networks, or failed States that shelter them, or outlaw regimes or weapons of mass destruction. Eventually there is no safety in looking away, seeking the quiet life by ignoring the struggles and oppression of others. In this young century our world needs a new definition of security. Our security is not merely found in spheres of influence or some balance of power. The security of our world is found in the advancing rights of mankind. Those rights are advancing across the world. And across the world, the enemies of human rights are responding with violence. Terrorists and their allies believe the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United States Bill of Rights and every charter of liberty ever written are lies to be burned and destroyed and forgotten. They believe that dictators should control every mind and tongue in the Middle East and beyond. They believe that suicide and torture and murder are fully justified to serve any goal they declare. And they act on their beliefs. In the last year alone terrorists have attacked police stations and banks and commuter trains and synagogues and a school filled with children. This month in Beslan we saw once again how the terrorists measure their success in the death of the innocent and in the pain of grieving families. Svetlana Dzebisov was held hostage along with her son and her nephew. Her nephew did not survive. She recently visited the cemetery and saw what she called the “little graves”. She said, “I understand that there is evil in the world, but what have these little creatures done?” The Russian children did nothing to deserve such awful suffering and fright and death. The people of Madrid and Jerusalem and Istanbul and Baghdad have done nothing to deserve sudden and random murder. Those acts violate the standards of justice in all cultures and the principles of all religions. All civilized nations are in this struggle together and all must fight the murderers. We are determined to destroy terror networks wherever they operate, and the United States is grateful to every nation that is helping to seize terrorist assets, track down their operatives and disrupt their plans. We are determined to end the State sponsorship of terror, and my nation is grateful to all that participated in the liberation of Afghanistan. We are determined to prevent proliferation and to enforce the demands of the world, and my nation is grateful to the soldiers of many nations who have helped to deliver the Iraqi people from an outlaw dictator. The dictator agreed in 1991, as a condition of a ceasefire, to fully comply with all Security Council resolutions, then ignored more than a decade of those resolutions. Finally, the Security Council promised serious consequences for his defiance. The commitments we make must have meaning. When we say “serious consequences”, for the sake of peace there must be serious consequences. So a coalition of nations enforced the just demands of the world. Defending our ideals is vital, but it is not enough. Our broader mission as United Nations Members is to apply those ideals to the great issues of our time. Our wider goal is to promote hope and progress as the alternatives to hatred and violence. Our great purpose is to build a better world beyond the war on terror. 9 Because we believe in human dignity, the United States and many other nations have established a Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. In three years the contributing countries have funded projects in more than 90 countries, and pledged a total of $5.6 billion to those efforts. America has undertaken a $15 billion effort to provide prevention and treatment and humane care in nations afflicted by AIDS, placing a special focus on 15 countries where the need is most urgent. AIDS is the greatest health crisis of our time, and our unprecedented commitment will bring new hope to those who have walked too long in the shadow of death. Because we believe in human dignity, the United States and many other nations have joined together to confront the evil of trafficking in human beings. We are supporting organizations that rescue the victims, passing stronger anti-trafficking laws and warning travellers that they will be held to account for supporting this modern form of slavery. Women and children should never be exploited for pleasure or greed, anywhere on Earth. Because we believe in human dignity, we should take seriously the protection of life from exploitation under any pretext. In this session, the General Assembly will consider a draft resolution sponsored by Costa Rica calling for a comprehensive ban on human cloning. I support that draft resolution and urge all Governments to affirm a basic ethical principle: no human life should ever be produced or destroyed for the benefit of another. Because we believe in human dignity, the United States and many other nations have changed the way we fight poverty, curb corruption and provide aid. In 2002 we created the Monterrey Consensus, a bold approach that links new aid from developed nations to real reform in developing ones. And through the Millennium Challenge Account, my nation is increasing our aid to developing nations that expand economic freedom and invest in the education and health of their own people. Because we believe in human dignity, the United States and many other nations have acted to lift the crushing burden of debt that limits the growth of developing economies and holds millions of people in poverty. Since those efforts began in 1996, poor countries with the heaviest debt burdens have received more than $30 billion of relief. And to prevent the build-up of future debt, my country and other nations have agreed that international financial institutions should increasingly provide new aid in the form of grants rather than loans. Because we believe in human dignity, the world must have more effective means to stabilize regions in turmoil and to halt religious violence and ethnic cleansing. We must create permanent capabilities to respond to future crises. The United States and Italy have proposed a Global Peace Operations Initiative. Group of Eight (G-8) countries will train 75,000 peacekeepers — initially from Africa — so they can conduct operations on that continent and elsewhere. The countries of the G-8 will help that peacekeeping force with deployment and logistical needs. At this hour, the world is witnessing terrible suffering and horrible crimes in the Darfur region of the Sudan, crimes my Government has concluded are genocide. The United States played a key role in efforts to broker a ceasefire, and we are providing humanitarian assistance to the Sudanese people. Rwanda and Nigeria have deployed forces in the Sudan to help improve security so that aid can be delivered. The Security Council adopted a new resolution that supports an expanded African Union force to help prevent further bloodshed and that urges the Government of the Sudan to stop flights by military aircraft in Darfur. We congratulate the members of the Council on this timely and necessary action. I call on the Government of the Sudan to honour the ceasefire it signed, and to stop the killing in Darfur. Because we believe in human dignity, peaceful nations must stand for the advance of democracy. No other system of government has done more to protect minorities, to secure the rights of labour, to raise the status of women or to channel human energy to the pursuits of peace. We have witnessed the rise of democratic Governments in predominantly Hindu and Muslim, Buddhist, Jewish and Christian cultures. Democratic institutions have taken root in modern societies and in traditional societies. When it comes to the desire for liberty and justice, there is no clash of civilizations. People everywhere are capable of freedom and worthy of freedom. Finding the full promise of representative Government takes time, as America has found in two centuries of debate and struggle. Nor is there only one 10 form of representative Government, because democracies by definition take on the unique character of the peoples that create them. Yet this much we know with certainty: the desire for freedom resides in every human heart, and that desire cannot be contained forever by prison walls or martial laws or secret police. Over time and across the Earth, freedom will find a way. Freedom is finding a way in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we must continue to show our commitment to democracies in those nations. The liberty that many have won at a cost must be secured. As Members of the United Nations, we all have a stake in the success of the world’s newest democracies. Not long ago, outlaw regimes in Baghdad and Kabul threatened the peace and sponsored terrorists. Those regimes destabilized one of the world’s most vital and most volatile regions. They brutalized their peoples in defiance of all civilized norms. Today, the Iraqi and Afghan peoples are on the path to democracy and freedom. The Governments that are rising will pose no threat to others. Instead of harbouring terrorists, they are fighting terrorist groups. And this progress is good for the long-term security of all of us. The Afghan people are showing extraordinary courage under difficult conditions. They are fighting to defend their nation from Taliban hold-outs and helping to strike against the terrorist killers. They are reviving their economy. They have adopted a Constitution that protects the rights of all, while honouring their nation’s most cherished traditions. More than 10 million Afghan citizens — over four million of them women — are now registered to vote in next month’s presidential election. To any who still would question whether Muslim societies can be democratic societies, the Afghan people are giving their answer. Since the last general debate of this General Assembly, the people of Iraq have regained sovereignty. Today, in this Hall, the Prime Minister of Iraq and his delegation represent a country that has rejoined the community of nations. The Government of Prime Minister Allawi has earned the support of every nation that believes in self-determination and desires peace. And under Security Council resolutions 1511 (2003) and 1546 (2004), the world is providing that support. The United Nations and its Member nations must respond to Prime Minister Allawi’s request and do more to help build an Iraq that is secure, democratic, federal and free. A democratic Iraq has ruthless enemies because terrorists know the stakes in that country. They know that a free Iraq in the heart of the Middle East will be a decisive blow against their ambitions for that region. So a terrorist group associated with Al Qaeda is now one of the main groups killing the innocent in Iraq today, conducting a campaign of bombings against civilians and the beheadings of bound men. Coalition forces now serving in Iraq are confronting the terrorists and foreign fighters so that peaceful nations around the world will never have to face them within our own borders. Our coalition is standing beside a growing Iraqi security force. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is providing vital training to that force. More than 35 nations have contributed money and expertise to help rebuild Iraq’s infrastructure and, as the Iraqi Interim Government moves towards national elections, officials from the United Nations are helping Iraqis build the infrastructure of democracy. Those selfless people are doing heroic work and are carrying on the great legacy of Sergio Vieira de Mello. As we have seen in other countries, one of the main terrorist goals is to undermine, disrupt and influence election outcomes. We can expect terrorist attacks to escalate as Afghanistan and Iraq approach national elections. The work ahead is demanding, but those difficulties will not shake our conviction that the future of Afghanistan and Iraq is a future of liberty. The proper response to difficulty is not to retreat — it is to prevail. The advance of freedom always carries a cost, paid by the bravest among us. America mourns the losses to our nation and to many others, and today I assure every friend of Afghanistan and Iraq, and every enemy of liberty: We will stand with the people of Afghanistan and Iraq until their hopes of freedom and security are fulfilled. These two nations will be a model for the broader Middle East, a region where millions have been denied basic human rights and simple justice. For too long, many nations, including my own, tolerated and even excused oppression in the Middle East in the name of stability. Oppression became common, but stability never arrived. We must take a different approach. We must help the reformers of the Middle East as they work for freedom and strive to build a community of peaceful, democratic nations. 11 That commitment to democratic reform is essential to resolving the Arab-Israeli conflict. Peace will not be achieved by Palestinian rulers who intimidate opposition, tolerate corruption and maintain ties to terrorist groups. The long-suffering Palestinian people deserve better. They deserve true leaders capable of creating and governing a free and peaceful Palestinian State. Even after the setbacks and frustrations of recent months, good will and hard effort can achieve the promise of the road map to peace. Those who would lead a new Palestinian State should adopt peaceful means to achieve the rights of their people and create the reformed institutions of a stable democracy. Arab States should end incitement in their own media, cut off public and private funding for terrorism, and establish normal relations with Israel. Israel should impose a settlement freeze, dismantle unauthorized outposts, end the daily humiliation of the Palestinian people, and avoid any actions that prejudice final negotiations. And world leaders should withdraw all favour and support from any Palestinian ruler who fails his people and betrays their cause. The democratic hopes we see growing in the Middle East are growing everywhere. In the words of the Burmese democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi: “We do not accept the notion that democracy is a Western value. To the contrary, democracy simply means good Government rooted in responsibility, transparency and accountability.” Here at the United Nations, Members know this to be true. In recent years, this Organization has helped create a new democracy in East Timor and the United Nations has aided other nations in making the transition to self-rule. Because I believe that the advance of liberty is the path to both a safer and better world, today I propose establishing a democracy fund within the United Nations. This is a great calling for this great Organization. The fund would help countries lay the foundations of democracy by instituting the rule of law, independent courts, a free press, political parties and trade unions. Money from the fund would also help set up voter precincts and polling places and support the work of election monitors. To show our commitment to the new democracy fund, the United States will make an initial contribution, and I urge all other nations to contribute as well. Today I have outlined a broad agenda to advance human dignity and enhance the security of all of us. The defeat of terror, the protection of human rights, the spread of prosperity, the advance of democracy — these causes, these ideals, call us to great work in the world. Each of us alone can only do so much. Together we can accomplish so much more. History will honour the high ideals of this Organization. The Charter states them with clarity: “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war ... to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights ... to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. Let history also record that our generation of leaders followed through on these ideals, even in adversity. Let history show that in a decisive decade, members of the United Nations did not grow weary in our duties, or waver in meeting them. I am confident that this young century will be liberty’s century. I believe we will rise to this moment, because I know the character of so many nations and leaders represented here today. And I have faith in the transforming power of freedom. May God bless you.Allow me to extend to you warm congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I would like to assure you of our fullest cooperation as you discharge the heavy responsibility bestowed upon you. I have no doubt that both Gabon and Africa will be proud of the leadership that I know you will provide at this session. I would also like to commend your predecessor for his invaluable contribution to the success of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. We continue to be deeply grateful to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the great work that he has been doing in a variety of areas and at various levels. We are grateful to him for doing whatever is humanly possible at the international level to protect the integrity of the United Nations and to defend the rule of law. At the level of Africa, we appreciate his commitment to the creation of the political and economic conditions to generate hope for the revival of the continent. Never before have we in Africa been as determined and as resolute in our attempt to change for the better the economic and social conditions on our continent and to create the right climate for peace and stability. That is what the transformation of the Organization of African Unity into the African Union (AU) signifies and what the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) symbolizes. NEPAD’s Peer Review Mechanism is a vivid demonstration of Africa’s commitment to good and accountable governance. The renewed vigour with which we in Africa have begun to be proactive in the area of peace and stability within the framework of the Peace and Security Council of the AU is, indeed, a promising beginning. But despite the efforts being made by Africa, the progress that we have made so far has been modest and thus insufficient to bring about hope for the future of the continent. Part of the explanation for that is obvious. There is just not sufficient support internationally to make it possible for Africa to meet the economic challenges that it is facing. Terms of trade have continued to militate against Africa’s development. Moreover, no substantial progress has been made to relieve many in Africa of the debt burden. It is the combination of all of those factors that has created serious doubts about the ability of many in Africa to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. It is our hope that those trends will be reversed and that the promises made in the Millennium Declaration fulfilled. At the end of the day, nations must assume responsibility for their future, for their development and for their peace and stability. Ethiopia has no illusions in that regard. We realize fully that, in the final analysis, it is what Ethiopians do that will shape and determine our future. It is that conviction that is the basis for the various activities currently under way in our country. With respect to issues of development, the primary task for us is the fight against poverty and ensuring food security for our people. A nation as diverse as Ethiopia can countenance no other form of governance than democratic governance. As such, the very survival of Ethiopia requires good governance and the democratic handling of differences, as a matter not only of preference but of prudence. Peace and stability 19 in Ethiopia hinge on the deepening of democracy in the country. It is precisely for that reason, and with a view to making up for lost time, that at present there is no greater imperative for Ethiopia than the fostering of peace and stability in our country and in the region of which Ethiopia is a part. It is that same logic which governs Ethiopia’s position on the peace process between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Let there be no doubt that Ethiopia wants to put its crisis with Eritrea behind it. Our conviction is that both peoples would be mistaken to see the other as an enemy. The truth is that both have one common enemy — poverty and backwardness. It is, indeed, regrettable that after so much bloodshed it has become difficult for Ethiopia and Eritrea to formally complete the peace process because of complications that have been created in connection with the implementation of some aspects of the decision of the Eritrea/Ethiopia Boundary Commission (EEBC). I said, “some aspects of the decision” of the EEBC because, when the chips are down, the obstacles to a breakthrough in the peace process between Ethiopia and Eritrea involve a controversy surrounding the demarcation of no more than 15 per cent of a common boundary which is, altogether, more than 1,000 kilometres long. Let me be very clear. Ethiopia is prepared to do whatever is humanly possible for peace. There is no greater priority for us than ensuring peace in our country and stable and mutually beneficial relations with all our neighbours. That is precisely why we have reiterated that we are ready to dialogue with Eritrea with a view to finding a win-win solution to the current stalemate faced by both countries. Dialogue and normalization of relations between the two countries is not a favour that either party does for the other, or for the international community. Rather, it is an obligation that both countries have, inasmuch as all other alternatives are ruled out by international law and by the Algiers Agreement. The promotion of durable peace between the two countries and the call for the permanent cessation of military hostilities between the two parties are the twin pillars of the Algiers Agreement. Ethiopia is convinced that the implementation of some aspects of the Boundary Commission’s observations on demarcation is not in the interest of peace between the two countries and will not advance the major objectives of the Algiers Agreement, nor will it advance the cause of peace in our subregion. It is under those circumstances that Ethiopia has felt that there is only one rational way out of the impasse — dialogue, an open-ended dialogue on all issues dividing Ethiopia and Eritrea, including on boundary demarcation with a view to finding an amicable and a mutually acceptable way out of the deadlock and a modus vivendi that would form the basis for the normalization of relations between the two countries. Eritrea, however, is of a different mind. It continues to be preoccupied with the hope of getting the Security Council to impose sanctions on Ethiopia and with the satisfaction that it would derive from such an outcome. Eritrea should be made to realize that that is unlikely to happen. Not because Eritrea is not big enough to have its way, but because the idea is too inappropriate and too unrealistic. Formality aside — and Eritrea’s oft-heard refrain of “final and binding” notwithstanding — no fair-minded person can forget what happened in May 1998 and up through May 2000, and what the OAU said about Badme and its environs. But talking about the past is not going to help Ethiopia or Eritrea. The two countries cannot continue spending so much time on their preoccupation with each other. That will leave no time for thinking about their future and the future of their hungry and destitute peoples. There is one other important point that Eritrea should not be allowed to continue misleading the international community about. Nowhere in the whole text of the Algiers Agreement of December 2000 is a provision made for any entity — including the Security Council and the AU — to enforce a court decision. That omission is deliberate, not accidental. Achieving peace and implementing the demarcation of the common boundary between the two countries is primarily the responsibility of Ethiopia and Eritrea, a point that has been repeated in various resolutions by the Security Council. Let me close the issue by reiterating one fundamental point. Ethiopia is committed to peace with Eritrea and to the removal of obstacles to achieving that objective. Whatever means might be available to reach that goal, we will be ready to embrace them. 20 Dialogue and negotiation, including using the good offices of the Secretary-General which have been made available to the two parties, are the most realistic and feasible means for making progress in the peace process. Ethiopia is ready to go more than half way to make that a reality, but so far it has largely been left in the proverbial situation of trying to clap with one hand. It is our hope that reason will prevail in Eritrea sooner rather than later. The peace process in Somalia has now come to a very critical point, with the Somalis having now come closer than any time in the last 13 years to establishing a national Government. Ethiopia will continue, as a member of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development Facilitation Committee, to contribute to the achievement of national reconciliation and work to help the Somali State rise from the ashes. That is an obligation for Ethiopia and it is also consistent with the vital interest Ethiopia has in peace and stability in our subregion. For those reasons, Ethiopia was looking forward to the final consummation of the peace process between the Government of the Sudan and the Sudanese People’s Liberation Movement/Sudanese People’s Liberation Army (SPLM/SPLA), which has now slowed down because of the tragedy in Darfur — an unanticipated tragedy. Ethiopia is keen to see the Darfur crisis resolved and the humanitarian tragedy dealt with as speedily as possible. Peace and stability in the Sudan is so critical for our subregion and for that reason Ethiopia will continue to do the best it can, including as a member of the AU Peace and Security Council, to assist that sister country to overcome the challenge it is facing. Ethiopia’s contribution to peace and peace- building is not limited to what we have been doing in our own subregion. We have from the outset been closely associated with the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts in the Great Lakes region, including at the highest level. Moreover, initially as part of the African Union mission and later as part of the United Nations Operation in Burundi, Ethiopia’s contingent in Burundi has continued to contribute in a modest way to the success of the peace process there. Another modest contribution we are making is in joining the efforts under way for the restoration of peace in Liberia as part of the United Nations Mission in Liberia. Certainly, we are also the beneficiaries of the support of a great many countries through the United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE), whose work has been critical for keeping the situation between Ethiopia and Eritrea stable. We are indeed grateful to UNMEE, its personnel at all levels, and to the troop-contributing countries. We all agree that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations is a crime against humanity. As our Secretary-General rightly stated in his address to this Assembly at the 3rd meeting, “No cause, no grievance, however legitimate in itself, can begin to justify such acts”. The international community should therefore fight that scourge with greater resolve and in unison. I would like to conclude by reaffirming Ethiopia’s commitment to the United Nations and to the principles and purposes for the promotion of which it was created. It is our earnest hope that the United Nations will continue to enhance its credibility with respect to its entire membership. That is why the reform of the Organization is so critical and imperative, including the reform of the Security Council, so that regions, including Africa, can have the fair representation they aspire to. Without a doubt, enhanced democratization will make the United Nations more transparent and therefore more credible. The future of the Organization rests on it. In the meantime, Ethiopia will continue to be devoted to the United Nations and to the values it stands for.There are some matters on which we all agree. One of these is that, later this year, we will receive the important report that will be tabled by the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, which was constituted by our Secretary- General. The other is that, next year, we will mark the tenth anniversaries of the Copenhagen World Summit on Sustainable Development and the Beijing World Conference on Women and discuss their outcomes. The third matter on which we all agree is that, next year, we will observe the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the historic Millennium Declaration. We will also agree that we took all these initiatives ó the convening of the social, womenís and millennium summits and the constitution of the High- Level Panel ó because we were of one mind that we had a number of problems that needed to be solved. In the Millennium Declaration, we used inspiring words to sum up our response to these problems. We said: ìWe have a collective responsibility to uphold the principles of human dignity, equality and equity at the global level. As leaders we have a duty therefore to all the world's people, especially the most vulnerable and, in particular, the children of the world, to whom the future belongs.î (resolution 55/2, para. 2) We went on to say: ìWe are determined to establish a just and lasting peace all over the world in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter.î (ibid., para. 4) We also said that our efforts to make globalization fully inclusive and equitable 'must include policies and measures, at the global level, which correspond to the needs of developing countries and economies in transition and are formulated and implemented with their effective participation'. (ibid., para. 5) To this we added the commitment that 'We will spare no effort to free our fellow men, women and children from the abject and dehumanizing conditions of extreme poverty'. 'We are committed to making the right to development a reality for everyone and to freeing the entire human race from want.' (ibid., para. 11) Naturally, we have no choice but to agree that we did say all these things and would undoubtedly agree that we meant what we said. I trust that this will not mark the end of the range of issues over which we would speak with one voice. I say this because, when I have asked myself the question 'Have we achieved the goals we set ourselves?', I have found it impossible not to answer that we have failed. There may very well be others among us who will take a different view and say that a good beginning has been made and therefore that it is too early to say we have failed. But I am certain that if we say to those affected by violence and war that we have made a good beginning towards the establishment of a just and 11 lasting peace all over the world, they will not believe us. I am equally certain that if we say to those who go to bed hungry every day that we have made a good beginning towards freeing the entire human race from want, they will also not believe us. I would make bold to say that the vision of human dignity, equality and equity at the global level that we enunciated in this imposing forum four years ago resonates among the ordinary people who are victims of hunger and war as a beautiful dream that will inevitably be deferred. Does this mean that, when we made the promises we made, we deliberately intended to tell the billions of ordinary people a lie? The answer to that question is obviously ìnoî. Did we speak as we did simply because talk is easy and cheap? Again, the answer to that question is obviously 'no'. The question must therefore arise as to why the grandeur of our words and the vision they paint ó of a world of peace, free of war, a world characterized by shared prosperity, free of poverty - has not produced the grand results we sincerely sought and seek. It would seem to me that the answer to that question lies in the fact that we have as yet not seriously confronted the difficult issues that relate to the uses and perhaps the abuses of power. Yesterday, in his statement on his report on the work of the Organization, our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, spoke eloquently about the 3,000-year-old Code of Hammurabi, and said: 'That code was a landmark in mankindís struggle to build an order where, instead of might making right, right would make might' (). We took it that the Secretary-General was, in his own elegant way, drawing our attention to the central question of our day: the uses and abuses of power. Contemporary human society is characterized by a gross and entrenched imbalance in the distribution of power. That power is held and exercised by human beings. As human beings, the powerful share many things with the powerless. Together, the powerful and the disempowered share the common human needs to eat, to drink water, to be protected from the elements, to dream, to love, to laugh, to play, and to live. But life itself tells us that all of that describes only what human beings share. The rest, the relations among us as social beings, is defined by our varied access to power and its exercise. Without fear of contradiction, I have said that we all agree that later this year we will receive the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. I am equally convinced that, depending on where we stand relative to the power equation, we will hold radically different views about what constitutes humanity's most serious threats and challenges, and therefore what must be changed to respond to that perceived reality. Both the powerful and the disempowered will undoubtedly agree that terrorism and war represent a serious threat to all humanity. They will agree that we were right to make the commitment in the Millennium Declaration to work for 'a just and lasting peace all over the world in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter' (resolution 55/2, para. 4). Many of those who have already addressed the Assembly have correctly drawn our attention to many instances of terrorism and war, to which we are all opposed. They have spoken of the bombings of the United States embassies in Kenya and Tanzania and of the African and American lives those claimed; of the heinous 11 September outrage in this city; and of the acts of terrorism in Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Spain, Israel, Gatumba in Burundi, Beslan in the Russian Federation, and elsewhere. They have correctly drawn our attention to the violent conflicts in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, the Sudan, Palestine, Israel, Iraq, Afghanistan, Chechnya, Abkhazia, South Ossetia and elsewhere, and to other unsolved problems, such as self-determination for the people of Western Sahara, that cry out for a solution. Both the powerful and the disempowered agree that the international community must act together successfully to confront these situations and therefore the threat and challenge of terrorism and war. However, the powerful will also make the additional determination that terrorism and war constitute the central and principal threat and challenge that human civilization faces. They will make that determination because, almost by definition, the terrorists target them simply because they are powerful; they have no logical choice but to identify terrorism as the central and principal threat and challenge they face, and to which they must respond. 12 Because of their place in the power equation, what they decide will necessarily represent the global decision of what constitutes the central, principal and most urgent threat and challenge to human society, necessitating various changes in the global system of governance. What they decide will translate into a set of obligatory injunctions, issued by this Organization, which all Member nations will have to accept and implement. Again, both the powerful and the disempowered will undoubtedly also agree that poverty, want and underdevelopment constitute serious problems that all humanity must confront. Many of those who have already addressed the Assembly have correctly drawn our attention to the reality of poverty, which billions across the globe continue to experience. Among other things, they have correctly reminded us of the fact that some countries are poorer today than they were a decade ago. They have pointed to the virtual certainty that we will fail to meet the Millennium Development Goals we set ourselves four years ago. Both the powerful and the disempowered agree that the international community must act together successfully to confront this situation, and therefore the threat and challenge of poverty and underdevelopment. However, the disempowered, who are also the poor of the world, will also make the additional determination that poverty and underdevelopment constitute the central and principal threat and challenge that human civilization faces. They will make the determination that, because they are the daily victims of deprivation and want, which claim the lives of millions every year ó translating into cold statistics about shortened life expectancy - deprivation and want represent the central and principal threat and challenge that humanity faces, necessitating changes in the global system of governance in order effectively to respond to that reality. But because they are powerless, those billions - the overwhelming majority of the same humanity that needs to eat, to drink water, to be protected from the elements, to dream, to love, to laugh, to play, to live - will have no possibility of persuading this Organization, laughably described in the Millennium Declaration as 'the most universal and most representative Organization in the world', to translate what they have concluded into obligatory injunctions, issued by this Organization, which all Member nations will have to accept and implement. If, for a moment, we resist the temptation to speak in parables or in tongues, for fear that we might be punished for telling the truth, we must say that this stark and simple reality reflects the distribution of power and wealth in contemporary human society. The wealthy and powerful feel, correctly, mortally threatened by the fanatical rage of the terrorists. They have the power to respond to this present and immediate danger with all their might, and, because they are mighty, they can determine for all humanity that the principal threat to them is the principal threat that all humanity faces. The poor and powerless feel threatened by a permanent hurricane of poverty, which is devastating their communities as horrendously as hurricane Ivan destroyed the Caribbean island State of Grenada. But, tragically, because they are poor, they do not have the means to respond to this present and immediate danger. Neither do they have the power to determine for all humanity that what they decide is the principal threat they confront, is also the principal threat that all humanity, including the rich and powerful, faces. In the Millennium Declaration, we spoke of the need to implement 'policies and measures, at the global level, which correspond to the needs of developing countries and economies in transition and are formulated and implemented with their effective participation' (ibid., para. 5). Perhaps the mistake we made was to assume that the contemporary distribution of power in human society would permit this outcome, and that, regardless of this fundamental consideration, it would be possible for the concerns of the poor to take precedence on the global agenda and the global programme of action. We comforted, or perhaps deluded, ourselves with the thought that this Organization is 'the most universal and most representative organization in the world' - afraid to ask the question, is it? Every year many of us who have spoken, and will speak, from this rostrum make an annual pilgrimage to this great and vibrant city to plead the cause of the 13 poor of the world, hopeful that this time our voices will be heard. Every year, after a few days, we pack up our bags to return to the reality of our societies, whose squalor stands out in sharp contrast to the splendour of New York and this majestic precinct that constitutes the headquarters of the United Nations. In the aftermath, resolutions are passed. Again and again our permanent representatives, with their extraordinary and plenipotentiary powers, report that those resolutions oblige us to act to thwart the deadly plans of murderous terrorist gangs. Again and again they report that yet another appeal has been made to the mighty and the lowly alike, voluntarily to respond to the cries of the wretched of the earth. We are truly proud and inspired to see you, Mr. President, presiding over the proceedings of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, because we know that you will discharge your obligations as a son of the poor of the world should. We are moved by the fact that you had as your predecessor President Julian Hunte, who also understood intimately what must be done to ensure that the United Nations can become, in reality, the indispensable common house of the entire human family. As an Israeli said to us at our headquarters in Pretoria a fortnight ago, it is perhaps time that we, the poor and powerless, abandon our wheelchairs and begin to walk unaided. Perhaps that will help to build the social order of which Hammurabi - and Kofi Annan - spoke, in which right makes might and not might, right.On behalf of the delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, I should like at the outset to congratulate you, Mr. Ping, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I believe that your skilful leadership of this session will yield fruitful results. I also appreciate the active efforts of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, to ensure the central role of the United Nations in addressing major international issues. Four years have passed since we marked the beginning of the new century. However, humankind is still confronted with grave challenges in its efforts to realize the aspirations of peoples to build a peaceful and prosperous world. Unilateralism and high-handedness are becoming increasingly evident, giving rise to aggression, arbitrariness and instability in many parts of the world. Consequently, the vicious circle in which the sovereignty and interests of weak and small countries are trampled for the sake of the exclusive interests of certain other countries continues unabated. Today, the main factors undermining international peace and stability are unilateralism and high-handed acts based on the logic of power. The challenges facing humankind today require, more urgently than ever, United Nations Member States to strengthen their joint efforts to seek to ensure equitable international relations based on multilateralism that fully observe the universal principles of respect for sovereignty, equality, territorial integrity and mutual benefit. One of the regions where unilateralism and high- handedness are most rampant is North-East Asia — to be more specific, the Korean peninsula. On the Korean peninsula, the national division forcibly brought about by outside forces has continued for more than half a century, and the danger of war is snowballing, owing to extreme attempts by the United States to isolate and stifle the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and to threats of pre-emptive strikes against it. At this very moment, all kinds of sophisticated war equipment are being deployed in and around the 28 Korean peninsula, targeting the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The acute political and military situation prevailing in and around the Korean peninsula proves clearly once again how right it was of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to have built up its strong self-defensive military power to prevent war and ensure peace, upholding the Songun policy of the respected General Kim Jong Il. The more vicious the attempts of outside forces to isolate and stifle the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the higher our army and people, firmly united around their leader, hold up the banner of Songun and push ahead with their struggle to build a prosperous and powerful State, with hope for the future and devotion to the socialist cause. The Songun policy — the independent policy of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea — serves as a reliable deterrent to ensure peace and security, not only on the Korean peninsula, but also in North-East Asia and the rest of the world. We feel great pride and self-confidence in that respect. The reunification of the country is a prerequisite for achieving a durable peace on the Korean peninsula, and we are steadfast in our determination to achieve national reunification, independently, on the basis of the North-South Joint Declaration of 15 June. That Joint Declaration is one of national independence, as well as a milestone of reunification indicating the path towards national reconciliation, collaboration and reunification. Various actions aimed at national co-prosperity were begun in accordance with the lofty spirit of the Joint Declaration. The connecting of railways and roads has proceeded, linking up the once-severed main artery of the country; contacts and mutual travel at all levels increased; and inter-Korean economic cooperation has been guaranteed at the institutional level. It is regrettable, however, that that tortuous process of reconciliation and cooperation between the north and the south of Korea was not sustained until durable peace and reunification could be achieved. That is because the process is unwelcome to the United States, which is therefore dead-set against improved relations and the ongoing cooperative activities, which are taking place at all levels between the north and the south of Korea. The United States should no longer hamper the efforts of the north and the south of Korea to achieve national reconciliation, collaboration and reunification. No matter how the situation may change in the future, the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will continue to strive to overcome all the challenges of the anti-reunification forces within and without, and to open up a broad path leading to the independent reunification of the country through national cooperation, based on the great proposition, “By our nation itself”. I would like to take this opportunity to clarify once again the principled stand of our Government regarding the nuclear issue between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States. As I have made clear time and again from this rostrum, the nuclear issue is the product of the deep- rooted hostile policy towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea pursued by the United States for more than half a century. In other words, given the fact that the current United States Administration, which is accustomed to rejecting our system, has been attempting to eliminate the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea by force, while designating it part of an “axis of evil” and a target for pre-emptive nuclear strikes, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has been left with no other option than to possess a nuclear deterrent. Peace is very precious to our people, who have been living for more than half a century with the heartbreaking pain of national division, forcibly brought about by outside forces, and under constant threat from the world’s only super-Power. Our people aspire to peace more than others, but they never beg for peace. The peace that they want to achieve is the peace of an independent life, not the peace of slaves, deprived of freedom. The confrontation on the Korean peninsula today is, in essence, a confrontation between foreign forces intruding into someone’s home and the owners of that home struggling to defend it. The nuclear deterrent capability of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea constitutes a legitimate means of self-defence to counter the ever- 29 growing nuclear threat of the United States and its aggression against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, as well as a reliable means to defend the sovereignty, peace and security of the country. The denuclearization of the Korean peninsula is our goal, and it is the consistent position of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to address peacefully the nuclear issue between our country and the United States through dialogue and negotiation. If the United States were to renounce practically its hostile policy towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, including the cessation of its nuclear threats, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea would, accordingly, be willing to scrap its nuclear deterrent. On the basis of that position, the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea proposed a package solution underpinned by the word-for-word and action-for-action principle aimed at achieving a peaceful settlement of the nuclear issue. As the first step towards that end, we offered the flexible “reward for freeze” proposal. In this regard, at the third round of the six-party talks last June, the countries concerned shared the view that it was important that both sides adhere to the word-for-word and action-for-action principle and the “corresponding measures for freeze” approach, and reached an agreement. The “reward for freeze” proposal provides for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to freeze all nuclear-weapon-related facilities and the output from their operations, on the condition that the United States abandon its hostile policy, in particular its demands relating to the complete, verifiable and irreversible dismantlement of our nuclear programme and, at the same time, that it lift its economic sanctions and blockade against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, remove the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea from its list of the sponsors of terrorism and participate in an energy compensation scheme involving two million kilowatts of capacity. By offering this proposal, it is our intention, first, to build mutual confidence, and, eventually, to resolve the nuclear issue fundamentally by addressing each other’s concerns and meeting respective demands step by step, on the basis of simultaneous actions, given that the current situation is characterized by hostile relations between the two countries and extreme distrust. The proposed “reward for freeze” process would be a confidence-building measure between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States. Such confidence will be possible only when the United States rewards us for imposing a freeze. It is only natural that everything should have a beginning and an order. From that point of view, our freeze will be the first step towards the eventual dismantling of our nuclear programme. Of course, the freeze will be followed by objective verification. In order to further clarify our will to dismantle the nuclear deterrent, we had intended to include in our freeze a halt to the manufacture, testing and transfer of nuclear weapons. The United States, however, disregarding the common understanding and agreement reached at the third round of six-party talks, has further intensified its hostile and increasingly overt acts against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, even openly announcing that there would be no reward for the freezing and dismantling of our nuclear facilities. Most recently, the United States adopted a bill on human rights in North Korea and thus made it legal to provide financial and material support for overthrowing our system and to force third countries to do so. The United States has gone so far as to slander and debase the supreme leadership of its dialogue partner. It also forces us to disarm ourselves like a defeated nation, thus attempting to forcibly dismantle our nuclear programme first and to overthrow our system through complete, verifiable, irreversible dismantlement. Consequently, the basis of negotiations, which were hardly moving towards a resolution of the nuclear issue, has been completely destroyed. If the United States wishes to coexist peacefully with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea by abandoning its hostile policy, the nuclear issue will be resolved properly. With regard to the six-party talks, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is willing to resume them. Nevertheless, the increasingly hostile policy of the United States and the clandestine nuclear-related experiments recently revealed in South Korea are major stumbling blocks to the continuation of the talks. Given this serious situation, in which the basis of the negotiations has been totally destroyed and the secret 30 nuclear-related experiments in South Korea have not yet been clarified, we are unable to participate in the talks aimed at discussing the nuclear-weapons programme. Therefore, if the six-party talks are to be resumed, the basis for the talks demolished by the United States should be properly restored and the truth of the secret nuclear experiments in South Korea clarified completely. I take this opportunity to extend my gratitude to the States Members of the United Nations for their active support for and understanding of our principled stand and hope that they will continue to contribute to the peaceful settlement of the nuclear issue between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United States by maintaining their balanced approach. If the United Nations is to fulfil its mission for international peace and security and socio-economic development, it should play a leading role in addressing the major international issues in accordance with the objectives and principles of its Charter. To that end, the United Nations should no longer tolerate unilateralism and high-handedness, which constitute a serious violation of the Charter and existing international law. Disputes should be resolved peacefully through dialogue and negotiations, and there is no justification whatsoever for the unilateral use of force, such as the armed invasion of sovereign States. Moreover, the Organization should be democratized so that all international issues can be resolved in the common interests of the Member States. In that regard, our delegation is of the view that the General Assembly should be empowered to review and approve the resolutions of the Security Council relating to sanctions and the use of force directly affecting international peace and security. The reform of the Security Council should be undertaken in such a way as to enable it to ensure the full representation and interests of the non-aligned and other developing countries, which account for the overwhelming majority of Member States and contribute to a fair solution to disputes. In addition, practical measures should be taken to actively assist the developing countries in their efforts to achieve sustainable development by strengthening the role of the United Nations and its affiliated organs in the socio-economic fields. The Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will in the future continue to regard independence, peace and friendship as the main ideals of its foreign policy and further strengthen its friendly and cooperative relations with all States Members of the United Nations that respect our sovereignty and actively contribute to international efforts to establish a just, equitable and new world order.Allow me at the outset to convey to the President my Government's congratulations on his election to preside over the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We have no doubt that his wisdom and experience will be of great service to the Organization at a time when it must make important decisions, in particular concerning the reform of the Security Council. He will surely do honour to all Africa. I also take this occasion to express our gratitude and congratulations to Mr. Julian Hunte for the excellent quality of his presidency at the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. In April this year, the whole world joined Rwanda in our observance of the tenth anniversary of 44 the 1994 genocide, in which more than a million of our citizens - men, women and children - were massacred by the former Government, which institutionalized hatred, discrimination and sectarianism. We thank in particular the General Assembly and the Security Council for joining us in this Hall last 7 April to pay tribute to the memory of the victims in Rwanda and to renew our commitment to ensuring that the horrors of genocide do not occur again, in any part of the world. That tragedy of genocide and its many consequences obliged us in Rwanda to undertake the national and collective duty of examining our conscience. We believe we have learned so much in sorrow from that task that we have undertaken concrete measures in that respect. In the process, we created the National Unity and Reconciliation Commission, which has led the national dialogue over the last five years. We have also undertaken vast reforms at all levels and in many areas of national life, which, among other things, enable people to develop initiatives and to participate in decisions affecting their own development. We have thus adopted a new constitution, which, for the first time in the history of our country, was conceived by the people of Rwanda themselves and drafted according to the ideas, concerns, aspirations and priorities of the people and not according to those of so-called legal experts from other continents. This new constitution guarantees the freedoms and fundamental rights of the people, brings together universal principles and national realities, but also, and above all, offers measures to exclude once and for all from our society the poor governance that led to the genocide in 1994. We have carried out important legal reforms that have indeed restored our judicial system. In the search for justice that will restore and reconcile our people, we have introduced traditional participatory jurisdiction - known as Gacaca - to judge the thousands of those presumed to be implicated in the crimes committed during the genocide. We are also now transforming our economy by emphasizing innovation, competitiveness, the role of new information and communication technology and the improvement of public services as the appropriate way to achieve economic growth and lasting national development. We have carried out other reforms in the areas of education, health, security and the advancement of women in public administration to such an extent that today Rwanda leads the countries having the largest number of women elected to national decision-making posts. Rwanda is contributing, albeit modestly, to all the peace processes underway in our region and other areas of Africa. In this context, my Government did not hesitate to respond to the appeal of the African Union regarding Darfur and sent a military mission to contribute to the efforts of the international community and the Sudanese Government to restore peace to this sorely tested region of our dear continent. We feel that the international community also needs to engage in some soul-searching in order to reflect on the lessons to be learned from the failures of the past and to re-examine its responses to crisis situations such as the genocide of 1994 in Rwanda. We should therefore ask ourselves if we really do have a system of early warning in place to detect emerging crises. Can we say that today, more than yesterday, we have the political will necessary to respond decisively and appropriately around the world to these emerging crises? Is the world's division into major Powers' zones of influence not continuing today ó just as it did in 1994 in Rwanda - to prevent the United Nations from formulating just and effective responses to crisis situations? Every Member of this Assembly is certainly aware of the magnitude and the frightening scope of terrorism as well as the challenge it poses to international peace and security. Indeed, from the Russian Federation, through Spain, Indonesia, Kenya and to the United States, terrorists are causing devastation, even using innocent women and children to achieve their unspeakable goals. The Great Lakes region in Africa is certainly acquainted with terrorism. Indeed, the forces that committed genocide in Rwanda, namely Rwandaís former Forces armees rwandaises (ex-FAR) and the INTERAHAMWE continue to bring death and devastation with unsurpassed cruelty to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and Rwanda. You all certainly know of their most recent and sinister deed, carried out barely two months ago, when this same group, together with the Forces nationales de liberation (FNL) rebels of Burundi, attacked a refugee camp in 45 Banyamulenge in Gatumba, Burundi, and massacred 160 innocent people ó men, women and children ó because of their ethnic origin. The most incomprehensible and unacceptable thing for us is the well-known fact that the bases of all these groups are located in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and that their leaders are well- known, but that no serious international action has been undertaken, to date, to destroy these bases and to arrest their leaders. And yet, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, almost in the very same location as these genocidal forces, there is a well- armed United Nations force, which is costing the international community a mere $700 million per year. We need to seriously ask ourselves whether the international community has learned any lessons from the tragedy of Rwanda. In our humble view, the United Nations should assume its responsibilities and take the necessary measures to disarm, demobilize and repatriate the terrorist and genocidal groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which continue to destroy with impunity entire communities in our region and which have been the source of two wars in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, directly involving up to eight African countries. My Government feels that, just as the international community has the responsibility or obligation to guarantee the protection of individuals in serious danger, it is also responsible for protecting and supporting those who have escaped from those situations. It is in this context that, since 1994, the Government of Rwanda has reserved 5 per cent of its annual budget for priority contributions to the health care and education needs of those who escaped the genocide. In the same spirit, and during the current session of the Assembly, a draft resolution will be submitted, requesting the Secretary-General of the United Nations to mobilize the entire United Nations system to give financial support to our domestic efforts, which remain, despite everything, insufficient with regard to the real - if not vital - needs particularly of the orphans, widows and victims of sexual abuse. We hope that it will receive your support. My Government has followed with great interest the current discussions regarding reform in the Security Council. Rwanda, which has been the subject of debate almost continuously in the Council for 14 years, is more sensitive than many other nations to the need to make this powerful body of our Organization more representative and democratic. We feel, in particular, that it is high time to end the marginalization of the continents of Africa and Latin America by granting them permanent seats in the Security Council. While emphasis is quite rightly being given to the expansion of the Council and regional representation, we firmly believe that equal attention should be devoted to improving the Council's methods of work and that emphasis should be placed on their transparency. We hope that this aspect will be taken into account by all the parties concerned; otherwise, this reform will be cut short and will not have any real impact. In particular, we are deeply concerned that an unwritten rule, nowhere to be found in print, seems to have reserved the initiative for making proposals only to the permanent members of the Security Council. Even more worrying is the apparent division of the world into spheres of influence, with each permanent member having the almost absolute and exclusive right to propose draft resolutions and presidential statements relating to its own zone of influence. This situation does no credit to the Organization and seriously undermines the credibility of the Security Council and its decisions. My Government has taken note of the improvements which have been made towards greater efficiency in the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, and encourages the Office of the Prosecutor and the Registry to pursue their efforts to end the waste and corruption which have characterized the Tribunal. And it is from that standpoint that we guarantee our full support for the Tribunal in the implementation of its completion strategy. We are awaiting the upcoming conclusion of agreements regarding the transfer of certain accused to be tried, as well as some who have already been convicted and who will serve their sentences in Rwanda, which we feel is a token of trust and of restored cooperation. In conclusion, for us, support for economic development remains one of the greatest raisons díÍtre of the Organization. As I speak, as members know, hundreds of thousands of people in Africa are facing hunger, poverty and disease and are living in great despair. The United Nations, therefore, needs to mobilize, concentrate and guide all our collective efforts to attain the Millennium Development Goals and to pull the African continent out of its current political and economic difficulties. Here, the New 46 Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is a kind of reassuring road map and framework, that is helping us to bring about the rebirth and prosperity of Africa. Thus, this universal family of nations should reject the current situation with half of us living in affluence, prosperity and good health, while the other half is dying of hunger and disease, which all of us together can prevent and eradicate. Let us, therefore, work all together to change this situation.I am honoured to address the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on behalf of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Allow me to extend my congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election, and to wish you well in your endeavours throughout this session. This year has seen important landmarks for the Marshall Islands at the domestic level. On 1 May we celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of our Constitution. The same day also marked the entry into force of our amended Compact of Free Association with the United States. The renewal of that agreement reaffirms the special relationship between our two countries. At the regional level, we continue to place great importance on our membership in the Pacific Islands Forum. Over the past year, the Forum has conducted a comprehensive review of existing regional mechanisms. Last month Pacific leaders met in Samoa, where they endorsed the terms of reference of a new Pacific Plan, which will develop a strategy for broader regional cooperation based on the key goals of economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and security. At the international level, the Marshall Islands reaffirms its solidarity with the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS), which continues to act as a powerful voice for small island developing States. It has long been recognized that small island developing States suffer from unique vulnerabilities and disadvantages. In January 2005, the international community will meet in Mauritius to conduct the 10-year review of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States. Over the past year, members of AOSIS have been engaged in a detailed process of preparation for the international meeting. At an interregional meeting in January, small island developing States adopted the AOSIS Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action, which addresses critical issues including climate change and sea-level rise, renewable energy, trade access and others. It is vital that we maintain the momentum in the lead-up to Mauritius in order to ensure a successful outcome for small island developing States. I encourage the international community to become engaged in the ongoing preparatory process and to participate in the international meeting at the highest level. It is our fervent hope that the meeting will produce practical outcomes that will assist small island developing States in implementing the Programme of Action to benefit people at the local level. In this increasingly globalized world, the Marshall Islands faces challenges shared by many other small island States. Our environment is extremely vulnerable to the effects of climate change and natural disasters; our small population faces the challenge of managing high levels of major diseases such as diabetes, and the risk of the rapid spread of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases; and our limited resource base and remoteness restrict our ability to integrate into the global economy. With these challenges in mind, the Marshall Islands is particularly concerned about the following issues. First, regarding sustainable development, the Marshall Islands has developed a national sustainable development strategy, and we are in the process of establishing a task force to ensure that the Millennium Development Goals are fully integrated into our national strategy. In striving to achieve internationally agreed development goals, we are severely constrained by our lack of human and technical resources. Thus we continue to seek to form partnerships that will assist us through capacity-building and technology transfer. We were pleased that the twelfth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development focused on water, sanitation and human settlements. We in the Pacific region are working hard to improve access to fresh water and to develop environmentally responsible waste-management systems. We seek the support of the international community to assist us in the implementation of regional projects such as the Pacific Regional Action Plan on Sustainable Water Management. We look forward to the thirteenth session of the Commission’s providing further policy guidance in these areas. 23 An ongoing issue of the utmost concern for the people of the Marshall Islands is that of nuclear- weapon testing. Between 1946 and 1958, the United States conducted a series of nuclear tests in the Marshall Islands, which included the detonation of 23 atomic and hydrogen bombs. On 1 March this year we commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of the Bravo test at Bikini atoll. The Bravo blast was 1,000 times more powerful than Hiroshima, and its fallout spread radioactive debris across the neighbouring islands. Today, many of our people continue to suffer from the long-term health effects, while others remain displaced from their homes because of ongoing contamination. We urge the United States Government to fully address the issue of adequate compensation for populations affected by the nuclear testing programme and to fulfil its responsibilities regarding the safe resettlement of displaced populations. On broader issues of disarmament and non- proliferation, we urge the international community to retain a focus on disarmament by the nuclear-weapon States, as well as on non-proliferation measures. We look forward to next year’s Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and we hope that the Conference will produce substantial progress on the 13 steps towards complete nuclear disarmament. I wish to reiterate our critical concern regarding climate change. Along with other low-lying island nations, we are most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. We are already experiencing these dramatic effects: sea levels are rising, weather patterns are changing and coral reef systems are being harmed. Urgent action is needed at the global level to halt and ultimately reverse the devastating impact of climate change. Without such global action, our national efforts at sustainable development will ultimately be rendered meaningless. While we are committed to playing our part, strong leadership is required by the major industrialized countries. We renew our support for the Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, and we call upon all States that have not yet done so — in particular the major emitters — to ratify the Protocol without further delay. We also call upon the international community to assist small island developing States in developing and implementing comprehensive adaptation strategies. As a nation whose livelihood depends on the resources of the sea, we are becoming increasingly concerned about the state of the world’s oceans and fish stocks. At the regional level, we cooperate closely with other members of the Pacific Islands Forum to ensure that the oceans and marine resources in our region are managed in a responsible and sustainable manner. The Pacific Islands Regional Ocean Policy, adopted in 2002, will be implemented throughout the region under a recently developed framework for integrated strategic action. Another notable achievement in the region is the entry into force of the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean. While such developments are encouraging, we reiterate our concerns regarding the prevalence of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Like many other small island developing States, we rely on fisheries resources as a primary means of survival, yet we lack the capacity to adequately monitor our exclusive economic zone. Regional and international cooperation must focus on addressing the problem of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and assisting small island developing States by building capacity for monitoring and surveillance. I have briefly mentioned a few of the major priorities for the Marshall Islands. There are, of course, many other important issues to be addressed during the upcoming session. International terrorism is obviously one of the biggest challenges facing the global community today. The reality is that no State or region is immune. All States must take action at the national level and must cooperate at the regional and international levels to ensure that we combat terrorist threats with comprehensive and unified action. Within the Pacific region, we continue to cooperate closely to ensure that effective regional action is taken to combat threats to peace and security. At the national level, we are in the process of implementing the 12 core anti-terrorism conventions and the relevant Security Council resolutions, and we have taken many steps to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. The Marshall Islands, as a State party to the Rome Statute, welcomes the ongoing progress of the International Criminal Court. We are pleased that the Court is now fully operational and has begun its first 24 investigations. We are confident that the Court will play a valuable role in the administration of justice at the international level, and we urge those States that have not yet done so to become parties. Another issue requiring action by this body is the continued exclusion of Taiwan from the United Nations. Taiwan is a peace-loving, sovereign State, and only its democratically elected Government can be the legitimate representative of the interests of the people of Taiwan within the United Nations. The Marshall Islands reiterates its full support for the ongoing quest of the people of Taiwan to be granted membership in this global body and in various other international organizations. Finally, the Marshall Islands reiterates its support for the expansion of the Security Council in both categories of membership. We support the allocation of a new permanent seat to Japan, and we believe that the representation on the Council of developing countries must be increased. Such expansion is crucial if the Council is to retain its legitimacy. My delegation looks forward, Mr. President, to a productive session under your able leadership.Allow me at the outset to extend my warm congratulations upon your election to the presidency of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. That election is a resounding tribute by the international community to Gabon, that brother country, for its singular leadership role in Africa, and for the personal commitment of President Omar Bongo Ondimba that has enabled Central Africans to be reconciled today, for which we are most grateful. Your great experience and ability as a diplomat and a statesman assure us of the success of our work. His Excellency François Bozizé, President of the Republic and Head of State of my country, whose faith in the ideals of this Organization are unwavering, wishes you all success. As you might expect, my delegation will be fully with you in your endeavours. I would like to recall the competence with which your 18 predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia, conducted the work of the fifty-eighth session. Allow me to extend to Secretary-General Kofi Annan the appreciation of the Central African Republic for his endeavours to strengthen peace wherever it is threatened and his resolve to find ways and means to preserve the authority and credibility of the United Nations, which has been so sorely tried in recent years. Before making its contribution and offering its thoughts on the state of the world, my delegation would like to join with all those who have expressed their sympathy to the populations that have fallen victim to natural disasters taking place in parts of the Pacific and on the American continent, which have left a woeful train of destruction in their path. The major issues of the world today — international peace and security, combating poverty, development, the defence and promotion of human rights, protection of the environment and health — cannot find a lasting solution save through the common efforts of the international community through United Nations. To echo the expressive words of the Secretary-General in his 2002 report entitled Strengthening of the United Nations: an agenda for further change, “The challenge ahead is to strengthen our capacity for collective action and thus forge a common destiny in a time of accelerating global change (A/57/387, para. 2)”. In that context, multilateralism, which is the main guarantee of the participation of all nations in international affairs, must be safeguarded and strengthened at all costs. The spread of crisis flashpoints, the radicalization of international terrorism and organized crime, growing poverty and the spread of endemic diseases — all of those things should convince us that only active international solidarity is capable of ensuring stability and security for our world. The tenacity with which terrorism is defying the international community in so many different ways is indeed disturbing. That scourge knows no borders, race, or religion. The attacks of 11 September 2001 in New York and Washington, 11 March 2004 in Spain and 2 September 2004 in Russia are only its latest expressions. Given the complexity of that phenomenon, we must arrive at a collective response to what has become a common menace. However, because our countries lack adequate means to combat that scourge, the essential problem of cooperation by the richer countries arises in order to obtain better equipment for detection, identification, surveillance and control on our land, sea and air borders. Similarly the fight against transnational organized crime also calls for large-scale cooperation under the aegis of the special fund for cooperation provided for by United Nations conventions. The difficult present international economic context has negatively affected the developing economies in general and African economies in particular. Stiff international trade competition, intensified protectionist practices, fluctuating currencies, the burden of debt — all these are handicaps that are slowing the development of our countries. In Cancun last year, members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) tried to relaunch efforts towards the liberalization of trade. We must continue to seek solutions to overcome the failure of Cancun and ensure the success of the Doha round of trade negotiations. The 2004 WTO meeting in Geneva is proof that we must not stand idly by when faced with the policy of agricultural subsidies. The Millennium Declaration, the outcome of the Johannesburg Summit and the Monterrey Consensus have laid out the path to be followed and the goals to be pursued in order to establish a true world partnership for development. Since the last General Assembly session, the world has undergone a series of changes exacerbating an already deteriorated situation as a result of threats to peace and security and a growing number of points of conflict and tension. An example is the situation in the Middle East, which is a source of deep concern. Indeed, despite the transfer of powers to the new Iraqi authorities on 29 June, the spiral of violence continues uncontrollably, fuelling the Iraqi people’s resentment of the international community. The recent appointment of a Special Representative of the Secretary-General in Iraq means that the United Nations has a central role to play in the political reconstruction process there. However, the Central African Republic ardently hopes for the implementation of proposals already made by France, in cooperation with the Russian Federation, for an international conference on Iraq, within the framework of the United Nations. 19 In Israel, the international community must continue to support the action of the Quartet to restore peace between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. There is no alternative to the road map, which calls for parallel advances in the three areas of security, politics and economics. In Africa, despite certain successes such as the return to peace in Angola, Sierra Leone and — little by little — in Liberia, the African continent is still a source of deep concern. The surge in armed conflicts, the tensions and the instabilities are becoming a recurrent phenomenon. While the third Accra meeting favourably restarted the peace process in Côte d’Ivoire and gave rise to new hope, other sources of conflict are surfacing here and there. The Darfur crisis in the Sudan continues to mobilize the international community’s attention due to the large movements of populations towards the borders with Chad and the insecurity that persists there. My Government is following with particular interest the developments in the situation in Darfur due to the humanitarian and security implications for the Central African Republic, which borders on the Sudan and Chad. In the Central African Republic, we support the initiatives taken, since the Chadian mediation, through international forums, which have taken over from it in the framework of the African Union and the United Nations. We encourage the Sudanese Government — which has proved its readiness — and the parties involved to follow the path of wisdom based on the dialogue established by President Olusegun Obasanjo, President of the African Union, and thus spare the brotherly Sudanese people more suffering, since Security Council sanctions would only worsen their suffering. The massacre of 160 refugees in Gatumba on 14 August 2004 on the border between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi sparked widespread indignation and exacerbated an already delicate situation in that part of the Great Lakes region. However, our conviction is that despite the setbacks, the various agreements between Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the one hand, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda on the other, as well as the historic agreements of Sun City, have finally made progress towards peace irreversible in the Great Lakes region. That, in any case, is the purpose of our active participation in the preparatory process for the international conference on peace, security and development of the Great Lakes region and our contribution to the stability pact that will emerge from it. This is within the framework of the global, integrated and concerted approach sought by the United Nations, which has the advantage of pursuing regional solutions that will reach beyond the geographical borders of the six countries of the Great Lakes region. I would like to touch on the situation in my own country, the Central African Republic. Proclaimed independent on 13 August 1960, my country has gone through relatively brief periods of political and social progress, linked by long periods of economic stagnation and even retreat, justifying the opinions of Afro-pessimists about its chaotic development. As with many other African States, a series of coups marked our political development. Some of these were palace coups and others involved a true popular revolution characterized by both the crystallization of social aspirations they unleashed and the political changes they brought about, such as the Carnation Revolution of Portugal in 1974. The changes of 15 March 2003 were of that type. They were popular movements carried forward by social forces that were as different from each other as were the involved political parties, labour unions, religious bodies, non-governmental organizations and the army. I am pleased once again to pay tribute to the resolute action of our Organization and that of the whole international community, which spared no effort before 15 March 2003 to find a happy solution to the Central African crisis, mobilizing the Security Council; the French-speaking world; the central organ of the former Organization of African Unity (OAU) for the prevention, management and settlement of conflicts; the heads of State of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, especially President El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba; the Economic Community of Central African States; and the Community of Sahelo- Saharan States. For more than a year, the Central African people have been trying to rebuild their broken unity, while the Government pursues the restoration of security throughout its territory. Confidence is growing with both our bilateral and multilateral foreign partners. Constitutional legality will be established at the end of 20 free and transparent elections to take place in early 2005. These are the main points of the timetable that the consensual transitional administration set up in June 2003 and that it has been pursuing ever since, in keeping with its commitments. Indeed, the national transitional council, a provisional parliament established in July 2003, is representative of all of the socio-political forces of the nation and fulfils a legislative function, including the adoption of legislation and the oversight of governmental activities. The timetable for the transition also provided for the organization of a national dialogue. For nearly two months, from September to October 2003, all of the active forces of the nation came together in this forum to search together for the deep causes of what has divided us for so long. From these meetings emerged recommendations, the main points of which underlie the activities of our Government today and the fundamental law of our country, on which our people are preparing to vote through a referendum. An organ that was specifically created to oversee the application of these recommendations, the national dialogue follow-up committee, is now pursuing its mission. An independent joint electoral commission, made up of representatives of political parties, civil society and the administration, was also set up, which has just published the timetable for a future referendum and elections as follows: 30 November 2004, constitutional referendum; 30 January 2005, legislative and presidential elections, first round; 27 February 2005, second round; 14 March 2005, announcement of results. The mission of the present transitional Government is to bring about conditions permitting a return to normal democratic life in the Central African Republic. However, the grave financial difficulties faced by my country do not enable it to face alone the costs of these various elections. Of the 5.5 billion CFA francs necessary to finance these elections, we thus far have only 3.5 billion. I would address an appeal for assistance to enable us to organize the elections under proper conditions and thus bring about a rapid return to constitutional order. As of now, my Government sincerely thanks the brother countries and international organizations that have so generously contributed to financing this process, especially France, the People’s Republic of China, the European Union and the Central African Economic and Monetary Community. The support that the international community will provide to this very difficult and delicate phase in the history of the Central African Republic will be necessary to conclude this consensual transition. Our common dedication to democracy prompts me to believe that this appeal by the people and Government of my country will be heeded. The challenges to be overcome in fulfilling the great hopes inspired by the changes of 15 March 2003 are many and pressing. These same challenges prompted the establishment of an agenda — a road map — that is focused on three major points: first, consensual governance for a rapid return to constitutional order; secondly, restoration of security and an effective return to peace; and, thirdly, combating poverty. The measures adopted by the new authorities, as they are outlined above, will lead to the restoration of peace and national reconciliation and were endorsed by the Central African people and rightly welcomed by the international community. Today, thanks to the re-establishment and restructuring of our security and defence forces, the presence of the multinational force from the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, with France providing logistical support, and assistance from friendly countries, in particular France, Libya, the Sudan, the People’s Republic of China and Morocco, as well as the Community of Sahelo-Saharan States, we can say that the process of making the whole Central African territory secure has made significant progress. Efforts are still needed to ensure full security before the elections take place. But the relief felt by the population and the hopes inspired by the changes of March 2003 will be gravely compromised if the commitments undertaken in this regard by the international community since May 2000 are not realized. It is also essential that we attack the economic and financial problems as part of the struggle against poverty. From that perspective, the Central African Republic offers its full support to the Declaration on Action against Hunger and Poverty, adopted in New York on 20 September 2004 as a result of a joint initiative by President Chirac and President Ignacio Lula da Silva. 21 The post-conflict programme that my Government, working with the international financial institutions, has just drawn up provides a sound basis for the reforms that are necessary if my country is to have greater opportunities for success in the field of reconstruction. The considerable efforts made at the national level and the steadfast support of the friends of the Central African Republic, including France, the People’s Republic of China and the countries members of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, have helped to lift the burden that salary arrears imposed on the transition process, with the result that the people of the Central African Republic will emerge stronger and more united. I could not conclude without touching upon a subject with regard to which all those who have spoken have been unanimous: if we are to make progress in this era, the United Nations must undertake a rational reform — a reform that is necessary if the Organization is to strengthen its role and enhance its effectiveness. That reform effort must begin by reconfiguring the Security Council — the central organ entrusted with the major task of dealing with issues of peace and security. From the perspective of the delegation of the Central African Republic, the initiative of France and Germany calling for a permanent seat for Germany, and the similar appeal in favour of such seats for Japan, Africa and Latin America, should be given serious consideration. Furthermore, the proposal of the Chairman-in- Office of the Economic Community of Central African States, President Denis Nguesso, calling for a political presence in the United Nations in the person of a representative of the Secretary-General for Central Africa, is also worth consideration. The Central African Republic will support proposals for reform submitted by the Secretary- General insofar as they strengthen the role of the Organization in the maintenance of international peace and security and the resolution of international issues on the basis of the principles of dialogue and multilateral cooperation.Sir, let me begin by congratulating you on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, and let me 20 say how honoured I am to be one of your Vice- Presidents. I want to say also how delighted Australia is to welcome Iraq back to the General Assembly. We, the nations of the world, gathered here at the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly, face challenges to international security and prosperity that are very different from those which existed at the birth of the United Nations. However, the aims of the United Nations as set out in the Preamble to the Charter remain as relevant and vital today as they did then: “to save successive generations from the scourge of war … to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights ... to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained … and to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”. Today, the menace of terrorism and the dangers of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) cast their shadow across the globe, threatening not only our security, but also the development gains and future prosperity of all nations. It is this new international environment, this new reality, to which we must all adjust. The United Nations is no exception. The United Nations is a vital institution that does great humanitarian work, but it must strengthen its capacity to deal effectively with the problems we now face or risk sliding into irrelevance. The Secretary-General himself recognized this last year when he said that we have come to a fork in the road, a moment no less decisive than in 1945 when the United Nations was founded. And, again this year, he stated that if the leaders of the world could not agree on the way forward, history would take the decisions. The issue he raises for us all is whether we, the United Nations membership, can rise to the challenge and take the steps necessary for the Organization to fulfil its aims in today’s world. Australia strongly supported last year the establishment by the Secretary-General of a High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, and we stand ready to contribute to ambitious outcomes. I want to return to the work of the Panel later in this address. There would be few nations in the room untouched by terrorism. As the cowardly attacks in Beslan and at the Australian Embassy in Jakarta illustrate, terrorism will not simply fade away. In response, we, the international community, cannot allow security threats to fester. What is required is new thinking, practical action, and cooperation between Governments. Obviously, the United Nations has a primary role to play. But Governments and regional organizations must also ensure that their resources and infrastructure can respond to the current environment. This is a responsibility Australia has taken very seriously. On terrorism, we have fully supported the work of the United Nations, ensuring Jema’ah Islamiyah was listed as a terrorist organization under the Security Council resolution 1267 (1999) sanctions regime and promoting compliance with the United Nations terrorist asset freezing regime. We have committed energy and resources to building counter-terrorism cooperation in our own region, both bilaterally and through organizations such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation and the Regional Forum of the Association of South-East Asian Nations. We are also committed to building understanding as part of a comprehensive approach. This is evident in the messages we convey to our regional partners and to Australians — namely, that our efforts to stop a minority of extremist Muslim terrorists is not a war on Islam; that Muslims are as much the victims of terrorist attacks and must defend themselves; and that we must all work to defeat terrorism together. Our cooperation with regional partners has delivered results, but as the recent bombing in Jakarta illustrates, terrorism in our own region is not yet defeated. While Australia’s embassy in Jakarta may have been the target of the latest attack, it was as much an assault on Indonesia as on Australia, and we are particularly saddened by the loss of innocent Indonesian lives. Indonesia and Australia are determined to catch the perpetrators and see justice done, for the bonds between us cannot be split by terrorists, but only strengthened. Australia’s commitment to a stable and secure region is particularly reflected in our efforts in the Pacific. Since 11 September 2001, we have come to appreciate more acutely the dangers weak and failing States can pose to security. Of course, not all such 21 States are home to terrorists, but where instability and vulnerabilities exist, so, too, do opportunities for crime and the potential for human suffering. When our Foreign Minister, Alexander Downer, addressed this forum last year, he noted Australia was developing regional approaches to confront the dangers of State failure and that with our Pacific Islands Forum partners we were restoring hope to the people of Solomon Islands. In just one year, the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands has made excellent progress in restoring stability and law and consolidating Government finances, and is now moving into long-term governance reform. Australia is also working with other States in our region, notably Papua New Guinea and Nauru, to address economic management and governance issues. Regional cooperation is being strengthened through the Pacific Plan, an initiative of the recent Pacific Islands Forum meeting in Apia, which seeks to enhance collaboration in areas of governance. I am delighted to see among us today the Secretary-General of the Pacific Islands Forum and welcome him to this Hall. We would encourage the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change to outline ambitious proposals for effective collective action to address failed and failing States, including more explicit provision for action by regional and other plurilateral arrangements, as set out in Chapter VIII of the Charter. Iraq is at a critical moment in its political evolution. A small minority is bent on destruction and murder and wants to deny the Iraqi people their opportunity to express their political will through elections. This minority also attacks those who are working to rebuild Iraq’s economy and improve Iraqi lives. Increasingly, Iraqis themselves will be responsible for doing that work, but success will depend on the resolute support of the international community. We cannot allow terrorists to disrupt the democratic process in Iraq. Prime Minister Alawi has emphasized his Government’s determination to hold elections in January 2005 and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General in Iraq has told the Security Council that maintaining the election schedule is his greatest priority. While the difficult security conditions in Iraq cannot be denied, it is imperative that the United Nations fulfil its role under Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) and work with Iraqis to complete arrangements for the elections on time. The size of the United Nations presence in Iraq must be commensurate with the importance and urgency of its task. For its part, Australia remains committed to assisting Iraq transform itself. To this end, we have committed more than $125 million, much of it directed through United Nations agencies. The situation in Darfur is a humanitarian disaster. Australia is committed to supporting urgent international efforts to end this horrific crisis. We have already committed $20 million in emergency assistance for the people of Darfur. We welcome the adoption of Security Council resolution 1564 (2004) and applaud the African Union for agreeing to lead a mission to Darfur. Let me make this very clear: we stand ready to offer assistance to this mission. The situation in Darfur highlights the need for the international community to develop a better framework for responding to humanitarian crises, and we hope the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change will come up with clear and workable recommendations on humanitarian intervention. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) is another urgent concern. Unless we act firmly and with unity, terrorist groups could one day acquire WMDs with disastrous consequences. As a threat to international security, the issue of WMD proliferation falls squarely within the Security Council’s mandate. We welcome the adoption of resolution 1540 (2004) as a demonstration of the Council’s willingness to tackle WMD proliferation, including the risk of WMD terrorism. We hope that with the adoption of this resolution, the Council will take a firmer and more active stance on WMD issues. As part of our commitment to combating the risk of nuclear terrorism, Australia will host an Asia-Pacific ministerial conference in November on nuclear safeguards and security. In addition, in the First Committee this year, we, along with Turkey and Argentina, will introduce a draft resolution on the prevention of the illicit transfer and unauthorized access to, and use of, man-portable air defence systems (MANPADS). We hope for a consensus adoption of this draft resolution, which encourages States to take concrete steps to prevent MANPADS from falling into the hands of non-State end-users. 22 Allow me to return to the subject of the High- level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. During this address, I have referred several times to it. Australia welcomes the direction of panel discussions — as far as we understand them — with respect to both doctrinal and institutional reform. We have contributed actively to the Panel’s work and we encourage the Panel, in its remaining deliberations, to work towards ambitious recommendations on its entire programme of work, including Security Council reform, addressing threats from WMDs and terrorism, humanitarian intervention and effective collective action. On the issue of structural reform, we note here that Australia has advocated expanding the permanent membership of the Security Council to make it more compatible with geographical realities, through the addition of Japan, India, Brazil, an African country and Indonesia. Whatever the final shape of the Panel’s report, one thing is clear: high-level political commitment will be crucial to bringing bold reform recommendations to fruition. We would encourage all Member States to give the Secretary-General their full support in considering the Panel’s recommendations. One opportunity to do this will be the 2005 United Nations summit of heads of State or Government. The summit provides an excellent forum, not only to review implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, but also to endorse a reformed United Nations that is better equipped to deal with the challenges it faces. Australia has long advocated the need for United Nations reform. Back in 2000 in this forum, the Prime Minister warned that, “In the absence of change and adaptation, the Organization will wither as the nations of the world bypass it in favour of ... mechanisms that are more relevant to their needs” (A/55/PV.20, p. 25). Of course, this warning was before 11 September 2001, before coalition action in Afghanistan and Iraq and before the terrorist bombings in Bali, Jakarta, Madrid, Istanbul and many other locations. If the need for reform was pressing then, it is critical now. The High- level Panel provides the best prospect for repositioning the United Nations system to meet contemporary challenges. This is an opportunity we cannot waste if the United Nations — our Organization — is to retain a substantial role in maintaining international peace and security in the twenty-first century.Thirty years ago, my country attained its national sovereignty. Indeed, it was on 17 September 1974 that the young Republic of Guinea-Bissau was admitted to the United Nations as a full-fledged Member State. Three decades, to be sure, is a short time in terms of nation-building. But it is a long time if you consider that in most African countries, including my own, life expectancy does not exceed 50 years. That bitter reality is the true measure of the time that has elapsed and of what my country has achieved since independence. Hence, for us in Guinea-Bissau, this is an important time for reflection, indeed for introspection, in the light of recent events and of the successive crises we have confronted of late. I address the Assembly today as the transitional President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. Addressing the Assembly gives me particular pleasure, Sir, because you - Mr. Jean Ping, the outstanding Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the brotherly and friendly Gabonese Republic - are presiding over the Assembly's work with the skill, experience and talent we all know so well. We have come to New York in search of new ideas for innovative and resolute action, ideas that will affect the way we think and will have a positive impact on our joint efforts to create a new world of peace, freedom and social justice for all countries and peoples represented here. It was with great attention and interest that we listened to the outstanding statement made here two days ago by Secretary-General Kofi Annan (see ). His observations were thought-provoking. For our part, we share his vision of the world as it is today and as it should be tomorrow. Above all, we appreciate his dedication and determination at the head of the Organization, whose irreplaceable role is increasingly evident throughout the world. We live today in a world of ever more striking contrasts, imbalances, contradictions and inequalities. On the one hand, we are witness to increasingly marvellous scientific and technological progress, from which certain countries benefit greatly. On the other 2 hand, hundreds of millions of people continue to live precarious lives and to suffer from malnutrition and endemic disease. This situation is not only inhuman and immoral, it is dangerous. It is sowing all the seeds that provoke frustration and despair, fuel rancour and hatred and lead to irrational behaviour and to actions endangering peace and international security. Combating poverty and epidemics such as HIV/AIDS throughout the world does not mean kindness or charity; it is common sense that requires that together we mobilize our actions to combat those scourges. I am gratified by the initiative of certain heads of State ó in particular, President Lula da Silva - in recalling to each of us our responsibilities in the fight to eradicate hunger and destitution in a world as interdependent as the one in which we live today. It is critical here to understand that there is an urgent need to act, and to act properly. Above all, let us not wait for more reports or analyses to be submitted to us first, regardless of how visionary or relevant they may be. Thousands of women, children and infants die every day because they lack a pill or a vaccination. That is unjust; that is immoral. We must pool our efforts to establish more equitable relations among States. International trade must be better regulated, just as globalization and its effects on the world economy must be better controlled, to allow for a more equitable distribution of the riches of the world. Rather than leaving the underdeveloped countries to suffer from the effects of globalization, let us create for them the conditions necessary for their integration into the process, which is utterly beyond their control and whose social dimension must be the subject of specific measures so as to mitigate negative consequences. Today it is clear to everyone that to ensure peace throughout the world there is a need to promote the development of the poorest countries and to improve the living conditions of populations, in particular by guaranteeing them access to drinking water, health and education - especially for girls. Above all there is a need to create a social and political environment that is stable and is likely to release that creative energy of each and every individual and to promote the participation of all citizens in the management of the affairs of State of their country. The rights of each and every person must be respected, and all liberties provided by the law must be guaranteed without any impediment. The rule of law must be consolidated to allow each institution to function properly and effectively. I am thinking in particular of justice, which must be able to act with full independence and with scrupulous respect for the separation of executive, legislative and judicial powers. Guinea-Bissau, unfortunately, has not escaped from the cycle of violence and political crisis that seems today to have become a prerogative of the African countries. Our country has recently suffered from the disastrous consequences of an economic policy that is poorly adapted to the real needs of the population. The domestic conflict we have been experiencing in Guinea-Bissau since 1998 could have been avoided. It has further impoverished a country that is among the least developed countries and where everything must still be built because nothing could resist destruction. We are aware of the seriousness of the situation and of the need to pool our efforts to make the necessary changes, which our people have a right to expect from their leaders. Our people have suffered too much and for too long and have made too many sacrifices. We must create new conditions that provide reasons for hope. We have successfully initiated national dialogue based on mutual respect and taking into account the national interest. We have created a new culture of peace based on our affiliation with one single country with all its diversity and social and cultural riches. We have decided to make democracy an immutable reality. However, we are aware that democracy is not easy to build in a poor country where the illiteracy rate is still high and where the fundamental infrastructure is still severely lacking. Nevertheless, we continue to be inspired by the courage of our people and by the support of other countries ó those of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the Union …conomique et MonÈtaire Ouest-africaine (UEMOA) and the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries in particular ó and the European Union, China and the rest of the international community. Thus last March we were able to organize legislative elections that the international community considered just and credible and to establish a new parliament, the role of which is fundamental in any democracy. We will also be organizing presidential elections in April 2005, as agreed in the Charter of Transition, thus allowing for the restoration of constitutional order. 3 Guinea-Bissau needs the assistance of the international community to meet the many enormous challenges confronting it. That assistance is urgent and important. We have created mechanisms for the rigorous control of State revenues and expenditures and, with the assistance of the UNDP and the Bretton Woods institutions in particular, all the necessary conditions for the transparent management of public property, which allows us to combat corruption. To enable us to relaunch our economy rapidly, we are planning to hold a round table in December. We hope that India, Brazil and South Africa will be assisting us in that initiative to combat poverty and helping us in the organization we have created in our country. We have here a great opportunity to express our gratitude for the commitment and dynamic action of the Economic and Social Councilís Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Guinea-Bissau and its partners, an indispensable instrument for advancing constructive dialogue between Guinea-Bissau and its partners for development, including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. I should like to thank them from this rostrum for their continued support. So, too, we wish to reaffirm our great appreciation for the members of the Security Council who visited our country last June and showed their great interest in it. For the maintenance of international peace and security Guinea-Bissau, speaking before the great majority of the Members of the Organization, hopes that the Security Councilís part will be strengthened by enhancing its membership to better reflect the world situation. From this rostrum, I would like to say how grateful we are to those who supported us in the first phase of our transition. Humanity is one and indivisible. The men and women who inhabit our planet share the same aspirations: peace and well-being. Every individual, whatever the continent he belongs to, feels the same frustration when confronting injustice, impunity and violations of the rights of the human being. There is not a single child who does not feel the need to be loved and protected by his or her parents and who does not hope to grow up in a home where peace and love reign. How can we protect them if nothing is done to guarantee the rights of women and give a suitable education to young women? How can we prevent the mother, and the child she brings into the world, becoming victims of an endemic illness such as AIDS, tuberculosis or malaria at a time when most poor countries are incapable of providing basic health care? Tomorrowís world is being built today. Thanks to the awareness of the real challenges, in this planetary village in which we all live, with its advantages and its problems, our human condition must be the common denominator on which and around which all people of good will should come together in order to make our world more fair, more tolerant and based more on solidarity. Whether we are discussing crises in Africa or in the Middle East, or the fight against terrorism - a fight that requires us all to mobilize our efforts - we must be animated by the same determination to seek lasting solutions based on consensus. The peoples we represent expect us to take concrete actions. They hope that we will be able to overcome our differences and pool our efforts so as to respond to their most urgent needs. Many praiseworthy initiatives to eradicate hunger, poverty, malnutrition and illiteracy have been undertaken. We must involve non-governmental organizations and other elements of civil society. In other words, we must appeal to all people of goodwill. The nations of the world all share the planet Earth, on which we all live. It is our responsibility to protect it so that we can provide our children and our childrenís children with the conditions for a healthy life lived in dignity. Environmental protection alone is not enough. We must also create a climate of peace throughout the world. That cannot be done without the help of each Member State: it must be a collective effort in which dialogue and agreement take precedence and where the rule of law prevails in international relations. None of our peoples can live in isolation in the self-reliant manner of the past. The interdependence of the global economy is now a reality for all of us. Let us take advantage of the resources of the Earth without abusing our ecosystems, because the future of the planet depends on our capacity to think in terms of the collective interest. Let us act in a spirit of humanism and solidarity whenever the poorest of the poor confront calamity and natural disasters - disasters such as those that have recently afflicted Haiti, the Dominican Republic and other Caribbean countries. 4 Let us understand the true dimension and meaning of the spiritual force that resides in each human being - a force to which we can turn at times of doubt and discouragement in order to regain the will and the energy we need to overcome our challenges. The current session of the General Assembly is of critical importance to us, not only because of the urgent questions on our agenda, but also because of the distinct honour bestowed upon Africa through your splendid election to the presidency of our venerable Assembly. Burkina Faso congratulates you warmly and, in its capacity as Vice-President of the Assembly, pledges you its full and complete cooperation so that you may successfully fulfil your tasks. I also wish to pay a tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, who effectively guided the deliberations of the fifty-eighth session. Our Assembly is meeting at a time when the international community finds itself confronted with growing poverty in the countries of the South, terrorism and fratricidal wars. On the African continent, we can certainly welcome restored peace in Angola, Liberia and Sierra Leone, but Africa continues to be riven by many conflicts, particularly in Burundi, CÙte díIvoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Sudan. In Iraq, an uncontrollable situation is gradually plunging that country into chaos, while dialogue still seems to be impossible among the protagonists in the Middle East. In the struggle against terrorism, we must humbly acknowledge that we are far from having developed an appropriate and effective strategy to eradicate that scourge. Killing and the destruction of human life are on the rise in several regions of the world. And yet, people of good will and international associations and organizations remain mobilized to offer solutions and to restore harmony. That is exemplified by the peace initiatives of the Southern Africa Development Community in the Great Lakes 8 region, of the African Union in Darfur, and of the Accra summit on the crisis in CÙte díIvoire, which, under the sponsorship of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, has revived a spark of hope for national reconciliation in that country. The Government and the people of Burkina Faso reaffirm their support for the Linas-Marcoussis and Accra III Agreements. I wish to reiterate Burkina Fasoís commitment to joining any initiative aimed at consolidating peace and stability on the continent. Peace and security are not the sole safeguards of order and global political stability. In its ability to satisfy the basic needs of mankind, human security is another important aspect thereof. Ever since the 1995 World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen, the international community has recognized that the greatest challenge confronting humankind is that of poverty. Poverty compromises fundamental human rights, undermines the dignity of individuals and families, and threatens the political, economic and social stability of States. Of what value is globalization if it ignores such essential concerns of peoples as economic progress, nutrition, health, education and employment? The especially alarming situation in Africa must be recalled in this Assembly: a feeble growth rate, an ongoing decline in per capita production, a slow increase in the literacy and education rates, the ravages of hunger and affliction, endemic underemployment and a disturbing lag in science and technology. In the face of such a state of affairs, African leaders have undertaken to show more leadership in the formulation of economic and social policies. The convening of an African Union summit in Ouagadougou on 8 and 9 September on employment and poverty alleviation in Africa was an example of that growing awareness and new vision. In the course of that meeting, together with our development partners, we agreed that macroeconomic stability and sustained growth are necessary, but insufficient to reduce poverty. We therefore agreed, inter alia, to make employment the centrepiece of our economic and social policies and to strengthen cooperation between the regional economic communities in the areas of employment, training and health care. The Ouagadougou conference also decided to establish a follow-up mechanism for decisions made at the national, regional and continental levels. Africa needs the effective assistance of the international community to enhance the quality of its economic choices in order to improve the living conditions of its peoples. From this rostrum, I therefore call on our development partners to act along three principal vectors. First, they must respect the commitments undertaken at various forums to increase official development assistance and to provide significant debt relief. Secondly, they must establish rules to organize international trade on a more just and equitable basis. Thirdly, they must implement the recommendations of the report of the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization. Let us see to it that, in September 2005, as we convene the United Nations high-level event on the Millennium Development Goals, relevant consideration and concrete actions will already have been undertaken to that end. For the francophone community, the themes of solidarity and sustainable development will be considered at the tenth conference of heads of State and Government, to be held in November in Burkina Faso. We believe that the economic and social well- being to which our peoples aspire can be achieved within the framework of the rule of law. For its part, Burkina Faso has resolutely opted for democracy, and our determination has been fortified through free and open electoral consultations for some 12 years now. We are fully resolved to embed democracy in our institutions and in our society, convinced as we are that it represents one path of hope for our country. The United Nations must serve as a guide in the management of international affairs. If it is to play that role successfully and accomplish its task, it needs to be deeply democratized. In other words, it must listen to the majority of States and civil society organizations so as better to serve the common interest. All signs point to the urgent need to reform the United Nations reform and to adapt it better than ever to the legitimate aspirations of nations. Every State, small or large, must assume its responsibility and be accountable for decisions taken for the common good. Today, were the Security Council to grow democratically and equitably in its representation of Africa, Latin America and a large portion of Asia and Europe, it would enjoy greater political and moral 9 resources to meet the challenges of peace and development throughout the world. Within the new United Nations that we so sincerely desire, the situation of the Republic of China on Taiwan will finally be resolved fairly and acceptably. Reason dictates that that country, which cooperates with a large part of the international community and makes a valuable contribution to universal civilization, should be rapidly integrated into the United Nations. With the valuable assistance of the Secretary- General, we have laid the foundations of a vast programme to reform our Organization. This construction must produce an edifice sufficiently solid to meet the countless challenges of the twenty-first century.Allow me to join previous speakers in congratulating you on your election to the presidency of the fifty- ninth session of the General Assembly. The world of the twenty-first century faces a paradox. It is unified globally in the areas of production, such as trade, finance and in the digital revolution of information and communication technology - yet it is divided by the increase in conflicts, civil strife and transnational terrorism, as well as cultural and ethnic violence. The world is unified by universal values, such as democracy, human rights and respect for freedom of expression and the environment - yet it is divided when democracy clashes with social demands for more jobs and less hunger. Those contradictory trends of globalization and fragmentation jeopardize governance not only at the international level, but also within nations. Conflicts sharpen; many poor States are rocked by domestic and external violence; terrorist organizations and traffickers in drugs, weapons and persons are emerging and amassing devastating global power. Since the end of the cold war, more than 30 civil conflicts have caused approximately 5 million deaths and created almost 17 million refugees. In 2004, the United Nations has been administering 15 peacekeeping operations and 15 special political missions. That means that 16 per cent of Member States are affected by issues undermining peace and international security. In a context in which no single Power can assure global governance, in a world where fragmentation abets nuclear threats, both nations and peoples demand urgent decisions ó decisions ensuring global governance based on international law, increased respect for the United Nations, within a renewed and strengthened multilateralism, and the reinforcement of the values of peace and international justice. In the global era, the world requires broad consensus. Peru considers that the best solution is to be found through both change and continuity. We must stabilize the world political situation and generate an international alliance for development and social justice. We call for continuity in order to attain the goals of the United Nations. We call for peace, security, juridical equality of States, the non-use of force, the prohibition of aggression, the international rule of law governing relations among States, international cooperation, economic and social development and respect for human rights ó all of which are more necessary and have more validity today than ever before. We also propose a change of tools, mechanisms and measures. The reform of the Security Council must be tackled realistically, bearing in mind its role as a mechanism for collective security for the international community as a whole. The people want a Security Council with guarantees of legitimate and effective decisions. 5 Peru is a country whose diplomatic tradition, since the nineteenth century, has supported multilateralism as the best means for international decisions, particularly to promote peace and development. Peru participates in United Nations peacekeeping operations. My country is contributing military troops in Cyprus, on the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and we are participating in Liberia and in CÙte díIvoire. Recently, my Government decided to send a fully equipped company to help achieve stability, security and the reinstitutionalization of democracy in the Republic of Haiti. As a result of our long-standing participation in maintaining peace and security and in promoting development, Peru has announced its candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council during the period 2006-2007. We are grateful for the considerable support that we have received and for the favourable consideration given to our candidacy. Today, 2.8 billion people live on $2 per day; 1.3 billion people subsist on $1 per day. Moreover, in the 1990s, social inequality became more pronounced throughout the world. According to the Worldwatch Institute, that increase in inequality affected not only personal incomes, but also access to water, food and energy ó public goods essential for civilized life and socio-political stability. Today, the decrease in personal incomes and the increase in inequality are colliding like tectonic plates, producing tremors of social disintegration and international conflict. Therefore, we in the international community must understand that the peace, security and stability of the world system are not related solely to political, military or strategic aspects. Peace and security have social and economic components. Poverty and exclusion militate against peace, security and democracy. Social exclusion produces violence, instability and national and international fragmentation and renders democracy fragile. We cannot overcome that situation if we do not cause globalization to have a human face and to become a positive force that provides tangible benefits to all nations and all human beings. The rule of law and the international legal order must guarantee access to justice and respect for human rights. The rule of law must prevent impunity. At the same time, democratic societies must make transparency and the fight against corruption true policies of the State. Peru, before the process of recovering its democracy, was captive to corruption, systematic human rights violations and the subjugation of justice to political power. The corrupt and authoritarian Government hijacked democracy, tortured systematically and made corruption a tool of political power. Today, the free consciences of Peru demand that those responsible be brought to justice. Therefore, I appeal to the Government of Japan to contribute to access to justice by authorizing the extradition of former President Alberto Fujimori for the crimes against humanity with which Peruvian justice has charged him, including his alleged responsibility for acts of torture, forced disappearances, summary executions and acts of corruption. Democratic Peru guarantees a fair trial and due process under the rule of law. I make this appeal in the conviction that the rule of law and the international legal order must guarantee access to justice. To deny such access is tantamount to enshrining impunity, and I am sure that the international order is not prepared to consider itself an accomplice to such impunity. We hope that that will not happen.An overall and realistic review of the current developments in international relations reveals that our world today faces the formidable challenge of extremism. Extremism has two distinct and yet interconnected faces: the violence and terrorism of non-State actors and the unbridled militarism of States. The former leads to increasing insecurity and the latter to increasing lawlessness. Insecurity is manifested in horrendous acts of extreme violence and terrorism, whether it is in Iraq, Afghanistan or Russia. Lawlessness is manifested in acting outside of international law and the United Nations Charter and relying on the glorification of force and the blatant use of military might. Lawless militarism of the powerful has given rise to increasing violence and terrorism and is also marketed as their panacea. We must be relentless against the former in a truly collective and all-inclusive manner, and we will muster the courage and national discipline to guard against the latter and remain within the confines of international law. The increasing insecurity and escalation of acts of violence and terrorism in different parts of the world are a matter of serious concern to all of us. The recent tragic incidents in Iraq, in the school in Beslan in the Russian Federation’s North Ossetia, and State terrorism in occupied Palestine have shocked and outraged all peoples worldwide. No rationale can justify the killing of children and the innocent. As terrorism has become an international challenge, an effective fight against it requires a global approach based on collective cooperation under the provisions of the United Nations Charter as well as the principles of international law. We must rise above business-as-usual politics and avoid discrimination, double standards and selectivity in our approach to fighting this global menace. As a victim of terrorism, the Islamic Republic of Iran strongly condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and we have demonstrated our strong commitment to fighting terrorism by the arrest and handover of the greatest number of Al Qaeda members apprehended by any single State to date. Our commitment fighting terrorism is unwavering. However, the prevailing international approach, which is primarily a law and order approach, is clearly failing to curb terrorism. We need to revisit our premises and try to develop a genuinely collective, inclusive, well-rounded and multidisciplinary approach, if we are serious about this fight. No State can even come close to doing it alone. The increasing lawless militarism, the second face of the challenge we encounter, is the use of brute and unsanctioned military force to achieve some political goals, albeit desirable goals. A clear example of this lawlessness is the attack against Iraq. The attack 33 against Iraq was illegal. I wish to thank our distinguished Secretary-General for making this statement a few days ego and courageously defending the Charter of the United Nations and the rule of law. If we, in this body, do not collectively defend the rule of law, we have helped to send the United Nations Charter to oblivion, thereby serving domination and militarism. We in Iran benefited greatly by the removal of Saddam Hussein. Many in Iran are joyous to see the murderer of their sons behind bars. However, as a matter of principle, and as a principle of the United Nations Charter, this cannot be regarded as anything but the fruit of the forbidden tree. The international community has demonstrated that it will not celebrate achieving this desirable goal through the illegal means of glorifying military power and rushing to use force without the approval of the United Nations. The increasing lawlessness of States constitutes even a greater danger to our security. It undermines our collective ability to contain terrorism and violence. It offsets our efforts to promote justice, equality, freedom, dignity and prosperity for all, because, if continued, it will lower everyone’s quality of life and devalue our humanity. The prevailing world realities illustrate that unbridled militarism and blind terrorism are mutually reinforcing. The international community must work together to find a way to liberate itself from this vicious cycle. In this context, one particular area that requires resolute action by the international community is the existence and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. As the only victim of the unbridled use of these weapons in recent years, Iran feels very strongly about the absolute imperative of a collective and rule- based multilateral campaign to eradicate all such weapons and to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons as an interim measure. This must be done by the universal application of disarmament and non- proliferation instruments in a comprehensive and non- discriminatory manner. The relevant multilateral instruments must become truly universal and the rights and obligations of all must be scrupulously enforced. Access to technology for peaceful purposes is the only true incentive for the universality of those instruments. At the same time, the legitimate disarmament and non- proliferation concerns of the international community must be addressed through transparency and the vigorous application of monitoring mechanisms. Iran has always been prepared to contribute actively to that global effort. While we insist on our right to technology for peaceful purposes, we have left — and will leave — no stone unturned in order to provide assurances of our peaceful intentions. Iran has been in the forefront of efforts to establish a zone free from weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. This initiative, which has received the repeated approval of this Assembly and the Security Council, has been systematically obstructed by Israel’s intransigence and its rejection — regrettably, with impunity — of all multilateral instruments. All countries of the region and beyond are unanimous in considering the Israeli arsenal, including its weapons of mass destruction, combined with its policy and record of aggression and State terrorism, as the single greatest threat to regional and global peace and security. Israel cannot hide these facts behind smoke screens. It is time for the international community to show its resolve to maintain the credibility of multilateral disarmament instruments by taking action to compel Israel to comply. Next year will mark the sixtieth anniversary of the entry into force of the United Nations Charter. The next General Assembly will receive the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. Now in the final stages of preparing its report, the Panel would be well-advised to go beyond the generally advertised perceptions of threats and challenges, and to address the more fundamental malady of our age — that is, violence and the glorification of military might. Obviously, the prescription that the Panel will provide will very much depend on its own perception of threats. In that context, the paradigm of Dialogue among Civilizations, presented by President Khatami of the Islamic Republic of Iran and warmly received by the international community, continues to provide the only vehicle to help promote mutual understanding and facilitate cooperation among States in the pursuit of peace, tolerance, freedom and prosperity. In 2005, coinciding with the sixtieth anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Charter, the implementation of the Global Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations will be reviewed. Based on the international experience gained in the period from 2001 through 2005, such a review can help the international community to further advance that paradigm as a long-term process towards promoting 34 peace, democracy and development — the real principles and objectives of the United Nations Charter. We condemn all acts of violence and terrorism in Iraq. We stress the need for promoting security and preserving the unity, territorial integrity and political independence of Iraq, promoting democracy through drafting a new constitution, holding free and fair elections as scheduled and accelerating the reconstruction of Iraq, as well as the speedy withdrawal of foreign forces from that country. We welcomed the formation and supported the operation of the Iraqi transitional government as a positive step towards the restoration of the Iraqi people’s sovereignty. We emphasize that the United Nations has a pivotal role to play and substantial responsibilities to discharge in the transitional period. We also welcome the position of the United Nations Secretary-General on the important role that the neighbouring countries to Iraq can play in the restoration of peace and stability in Iraq and in its reconstruction. In the Palestinian lands, the world is witnessing, with much regret and concern, the continued gross violation of human rights and the Israeli policy of occupation and repression against the oppressed Palestinian people. A durable peace in Palestine will only be possible if it is based on justice and guarantees an end to the occupation of the Palestinian lands, restoration of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, return of the people of the Palestinian diaspora to their homeland, participation of all in a democratic process and the establishment of a Palestinian State with Al- Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. We are of the view that the enlightened Palestinian people are capable of independently deciding their political and social affairs and we respect their free decisions on the future of Palestine. We welcome the valuable efforts by the Government of Afghanistan to consolidate peace, security and stability in the country. In addition, holding fair and free presidential and legislative elections and establishing a broad-based representative and multi-ethnic government, will be vital steps in the process of democratization and reconstruction in Afghanistan. Realization of the Millennium Development Goals is inseparable from viable international peace and security. Otherwise the political, social, economic and cultural problems of our world will continue to increase cumulatively, leaving us in a more desperate situation. In our view, the only option available to us is to foster closer international cooperation under internationally recognized rules and instruments in the light of dialogue, justice and democracy.A few weeks ago, 200 innocent children were killed by terrorists in Beslan. Today alone, 1,700 children will be born marked by death from HIV/AIDS from their first breath. Also today, hundreds of children will die from starvation, bullets or mines in numerous parts of the world. Has this world become a better place than it was a generation ago? Yes, I still believe it has. Democracy is more widespread than ever before. The cold war has come to an end. Fewer people are suffering from famine. Better - but still, this world is not a good place. As long as children die of famine, as long as war and violence end lives that have barely started, the world is not good. As long as children die from curable diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis, we - the political leaders of our countries - have not done enough. We need a stronger commitment, a stronger link between words and deeds. We must pull together, more determined than ever. Each individual carries a responsibility to take action for the sake of the collective. We need a stronger United Nations. I want to see progress. Sweden is a staunch supporter of United Nations reform efforts. While advocating reforms, we believe that the core principles of the United Nations Charter remain as valid as ever. Threats to international peace and security must be met collectively. The use of force is permitted only as a last resort and when authorized by the Security Council, unless it is an act of self-defence. We need to make the United Nations more relevant. We need a United Nations that can act early and quickly, in an integrated, sustainable and legitimate manner. Last year, the Secretary-General called upon us all to take decisive action in order to safeguard multilateralism. He will need our strong support to follow up on the report of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. For the Security Council to remain legitimate, representative and relevant, its composition must better reflect the world of today. Since the adoption of the United Nations Charter, a small number of countries have emerged as key political and economic Powers. Those countries should be given a role which is commensurate with their importance. We also need a Security Council that ensures the legitimate interests of small and medium-sized countries. An expansion of the Security Council should not undermine its efficiency. A way to safeguard this would be to limit the use of the veto power. I hope that the High-Level Panel will present a bold proposal that will end the present stalemate. A joint seat for the European Union should not be ruled out as an option for the future. Managing transition from conflict to peace has become a primary responsibility of the United Nations. A standing committee of the Security Council to advise it on post-conflict transition issues would facilitate that task. The Economic and Social Council must be more effective in bridging the gap between peacekeeping, peace-building and development. Still, weapons of mass destruction constitute one of the main threats to international peace and security. The threat of terrorism in connection with the proliferation of such weapons is real. The need for strong policies in disarmament and non-proliferation is acute. The nuclear-weapon States must show real progress towards disarmament. Efforts to combat proliferation must be strengthened. Compliance with existing treaties leaves much to be desired, and must improve. A wave of terrorist acts has shaken the world in the past few years. The months when we have not had to mourn victims of terrorism are easily counted. We are all repelled by the barbaric acts of terrorism around the world, from Beslan to Jakarta. Nothing can be crueller than the violent, senseless and tragic loss of innocent lives. All States must work together to preserve a democratic, secure and open society. That is how we will defeat terrorism. But we must also admit that we will never be successful if we fail to defeat the causes of terrorism. For me, it is clear: fanaticism and fundamentalism 42 exploit people's sense of injustice and lack of hope. Poverty, oppression, insecurity, intolerance, absence of democratic structures and lack of political freedom ó they are all part of the breeding ground. The fight against terrorism must be carried out with determination. There are no short cuts: human rights must be respected; international law must be followed. Our global human rights instruments aim at protecting the individual. But just as human beings are equal, so are States, big and small. International law is the ultimate guarantee that all States, no matter their size or power, are treated equally. For the sake of all nations, we need a strong multilateral system. The conflict between Israelis and Palestinians continues to take innocent lives, causing unending human tragedy. Commitment from the parties to a peaceful solution and an end to occupation is crucial. On the Israeli side, excessive violence, extrajudicial killings, settlement activity and destruction of property must end. Israel's right and obligation to protect its people must be exercised within the context of international law. On the Palestinian side, areas of particular concern remain corruption, and security and political reform. The indiscriminate and horrendous terrorist attacks must stop, and the Palestinian Authority must do more to achieve that. To realize the vision of two States - a viable and democratic Palestine living in peace and security side by side with an Israel within secure and recognized borders, on the basis of Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) - the parties need to meet their obligations. The road map of the Quartet is the tool to achieve this, but both sides must demonstrate a will to use it. In Iraq, a united international community should give the Iraqi people all necessary support for the building of an independent and democratic Iraq. To that end, the role of the United Nations is vital. What Iraq and the whole region need is not a new war, but a new peace. In Afghanistan, the security situation remains worrying. The attacks against national and international assistance workers are unacceptable. The international community should stand by Afghanistan in building a stable, secure and democratic society. The size and scope of United Nations peacekeeping operations have expanded dramatically. I welcome the trend towards peacekeeping operations with broad and comprehensive tasks, including the protection of vulnerable civilian populations. Children continue to be victims of war and conflict. Nothing can be more important than the life and health of children. The late Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme used to say that it is not meaningful to talk about 'my children and your children'; it is all about our children - the only tangible connection to the future that we have. Their protection should be paramount to all of us. Four years ago, Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security was adopted. It was a groundbreaking achievement. But now we need to do more to translate its common objectives into concrete improvements for women around the world. An increasing number of United Nations and other peacekeeping missions are set up in Africa. While hardship is the plight of countless men, women and children on the continent, Africa today brings hope of a more vigorous leadership to confront its challenges. President Thabo Mbeki showed the way with his bold New Partnership for Africaís Development (NEPAD) initiative. From that followed the creation of the African Union, which is now establishing itself as a decisive body for addressing violent conflicts. International law should guide us in all our collective efforts to attain freedom from weapons of mass destruction and terrorism, sustainable development and respect for human rights. Our finest achievement in international law in recent years is the creation of the International Criminal Court. I call on the Security Council to consider the possibility of referring matters to the Court. Sovereignty entails responsibility. The prevention of atrocities requires international action if Governments fail to assume their responsibility. At the Stockholm International Forum on the prevention of genocide last January, we pledged to shoulder our responsibility to protect potential victims of genocide, mass murder and ethnic cleansing. We pledged to ensure that the perpetrators of genocidal acts are brought to justice. And we pledged to cooperate in the United Nations on these efforts. Discussions on the definition of genocide should never stop us from taking action when it is called for. 43 The recent Security Council resolution, resolution 1564 (2004), on the terrible tragedy in Darfur is a necessary step in this direction. I particularly welcome the request to establish an international commission of inquiry. My Government stands ready to give the Secretary-General our full support in that task. I also welcome the appointment by the Secretary- General of Professor Juan Mendez as his Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide. That will serve to make clear the link between massive and systematic violations of human rights and threats to international peace and security. Another issue of serious concern is the use of the death penalty. For me, as a democrat and humanist, it can never be accepted. I want us to make every effort to seek the abolishment of the death penalty. The Millennium Declaration and the Millennium Development Goals are at the core of the worldís efforts to put an end to hunger and poverty. The collective political will to give priority to sustainable global development, over short-term national interests, will be the decisive factor in turning promise into reality. Rich countries must fulfil their commitments. I am proud to tell you that Sweden will reach its national goal of 1 per cent of gross national income for official development assistance in 2006. But development assistance alone will not yield the needed results. Both the developed and the developing world must move forward on a number of other issues. And Sweden will do its part. We have translated the international agenda into national policy, giving the entire range of government activities one single objective: to contribute to equitable and sustainable global development. We will act in a coherent way with that single objective in every field, whether trade, environment or agricultural policy. But this is not enough. Other decisive areas are good governance and transparency, democracy and human rights, women and workersí rights. Let us end the blame game. Let us focus on getting the job done. Next year, we will gather in this Hall for a summit meeting to review progress on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. By then, we will also have reflected on the findings of the High-Level Panel and the recommendations of the Secretary-General. It will be a decisive moment for the United Nations. It will be a chance for us, the Members of the United Nations, to show that we believe in collective action and that we will shoulder our responsibility for making our international institutions stronger and more effective. Let us not fail the United Nations at this most critical juncture. Let us not shirk our responsibilities in the face of complex new realities. Let us choose a secure and prosperous future for all.Nelson Mandela once described his countryís transition to democracy as a long journey to freedom comprising many milestones, each a realization of new opportunities for him and his nation. We, the Afghan people, started our journey to stability and democracy almost three years ago. I am delighted to report that, 18 days from today, our people will go to the polls for the first time to elect their President, marking the most significant milestone in our journey. As the presidential elections will mark the end of the transitional period set forth in the historic Bonn Agreement, I would like to outline some of Afghanistanís achievements over the past three years and discuss our challenges. Much has changed in my country, but no change is more visible than the confidence of the Afghan people in the future of our country. We have seen that confidence in the return of more than 3.5 million refugees who are now rebuilding their lives. We have seen that confidence in the enthusiasm of families who are sending their boys and girls to school, rebuilding their homes and setting up their businesses. And we have seen that confidence in the enthusiasm of 10.5 million Afghans who have registered to vote in the upcoming elections. Earlier this year, the Constitutional Loya Jirga adopted an enlightened Constitution establishing a democratic Islamic republic. It guarantees equal rights and equal protection for all citizens ó men and women. The vision of the Constitutional Loya Jirga is becoming a reality. Approximately 42 per cent of the registered voters are women, and women will make up at least 25 per cent of our future parliament. Our Constitution also guarantees freedom of speech and freedom of the press. During the past year, we enacted the election law, established the necessary mechanism to organize and manage elections and completed voter registration, and we are now preparing to hold presidential and parliamentary elections. Thanks to the cooperation of our two brotherly neighbours, Pakistan and Iran, hundreds of thousands of Afghans still living in those countries will also participate in the election. 2 In partnership with the international community, we have intensified our efforts to rebuild our national security institutions. Today, there are 15,000 national army soldiers and nearly 30,000 national police officers providing security to our citizens. We are grateful to the thousands of International Security Assistance Force and coalition troops that are assisting our security forces. We have also taken steps towards disarming, demobilizing and reintegrating private militias. Nearly all of the heavy weapons have been collected from the city of Kabul, and thousands of former combatants have been disarmed in various parts of the country. We have continued the reconstruction of our country. At the Berlin conference this year, the international community renewed its commitment to rebuilding Afghanistan. The generous pledges that we received in Berlin will be committed to national reconstruction and development programmes that will create economic opportunities for our citizens and will further promote economic growth throughout the region. Eradicating poverty and meeting the educational and health needs of our citizens will continue to remain among our top priorities. We will continue to focus on building our roads to re-establish Afghanistan as the land bridge for transcontinental trade. Upon completion of Afghanistanís ring road, every major Central Asian capital will be less than 32 hours from the Persian Gulf and the port of Karachi. While our achievements are significant, we continue to face challenges. Terrorism remains one of our main challenges. The remnants of terrorism continue to attack our citizens and to threaten our security. As long as terrorism continues to exist in our region, neither Afghanistan nor our neighbours nor, indeed, the rest of the world can be safe. Eliminating the remnants of terrorism in Afghanistan and in the region requires not only continued support from the international community, but also strong and sincere commitment from other countries in the region. To stop the movement of terrorists across borders, the countries in the region must cooperate closely. The cultivation and trafficking of narcotics is another major challenge to Afghanistan and to the rest of the world. Drug profits finance terrorism and undermine our efforts to build a healthy and legitimate economy. Afghanistan is fully committed to eliminating this menace. However, we cannot succeed without the strong partnership of the international community. Poverty remains another serious challenge. Even though we have made considerable progress over the past three years, we are still one of the poorest countries. We still have the second-highest infant and maternal mortality rates in the world, and we have one of the highest illiteracy rates. Very few Afghans have access to safe drinking water, and only 6 per cent of the Afghan population has reliable access to electricity. Our achievements have not come without a cost. During the elections for the Constitutional Loya Jirga, terrorists did everything to disrupt the process, including bombing an elementary school and killing more than 20 children. During the registration for the elections, terrorists showed their desperation by intensifying their attacks. They bombed vehicles carrying women registration workers, killed civilians who carried registration cards and bombed religious schools, killing children. Those attacks have not stopped our people from passing one milestone after another. The valuable role of the international community has been crucial to our success. Nations from different continents with different cultures and religions have come together to help rebuild Afghanistan. That is a clear example of cooperation among civilizations. On behalf of the Afghan people, I thank all the nations that have supported us with their troops and resources, especially the United States of America, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, Canada, Italy, Spain, France and Turkey. We are most grateful to the United Nations for the commitment and engagement of United Nations agencies and employees during the past three years. We especially appreciate the personal commitment and dedication of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan; his Deputy Special Representative, Mr. Jean Arnaud; and his Special Representative, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, whose wisdom and leadership have guided us throughout the journey. Afghanistan is on the road to recovery from the devastation of more than two decades of war. Much has been accomplished in the past three years. Yet establishing a stable, democratic and prosperous Afghanistan requires sustained and collaborative efforts by the Afghans, by our neighbours and by the international community. We, the Afghan people, will do our share. Working together for a stable and 3 prosperous Afghanistan not only is a good example of successful international cooperation, but will also contribute to regional prosperity and global security.I wish, Sir, to express to you my most sincere congratulations on your election as President of this session of the General Assembly and to wish you every success in steering the work of this body. I would also like to extend our thanks and appreciation to the President of the fifty- eighth session of the General Assembly, especially for his inspired efforts to promote so vigorously the agenda of United Nations reform and the revitalization of the General Assembly. As this is the last session of the General Assembly before the 2005 major event, we must proceed to evaluate the prospects for attaining the ambitious targets we set at the turn of the millennium. The major event will be the first real assessment of our progress towards the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, of the outcomes of major world conferences and of initiatives such as the action launched by the Presidents of Brazil, France and Chile and the Prime Minister of Spain to eradicate poverty and hunger, and the initiative of the Presidents of Finland and Tanzania on the social dimensions of globalization. Specifically with regard to the Millennium Development Goals, we believe that the ability to make development on the ground an issue of global concern as a result of those pledges will be a measure of the ability of the United Nations to induce significant change and advances where they are most needed. The Republic of Cyprus supports the strengthening of the United Nations system through the reform process that is under way and looks forward to the report of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change and the recommendations of the Secretary-General. We attach particular importance to the revitalization of the General Assembly and to the reform of the Security Council so that its structure will reflect contemporary political realities and a more balanced geographical representation. In the spirit of those two principles, and with the aim of reinforcing the legitimacy and efficacy of the Council, Cyprus is supportive of increasing both the permanent and the non-permanent membership. In that respect, we believe that the joint French and German position on the enlargement of the Council could provide a basis for achieving the aforementioned objectives. We share the assessment of the Secretary-General that consolidating effective multilateralism in a flexible and versatile United Nations is the best way to address the complete spectrum of global crises and ensure that preventive mechanisms exist to avert such crises. Such consolidation applies also to security deficits and particularly terrorism, whose underlying causes we have been unable to eliminate despite our concerted efforts. We consider that the conclusion of a 5 comprehensive United Nations convention against terrorism is important in order to address more resolutely, within the framework of international legality, the threat posed by terrorism. Addressing other deficiencies in the international system — particularly those that give rise to crisis situations and to humanitarian disasters — should also be considered a matter of both urgency and priority. One such crisis is Darfur, which, following many others like it, keeps Africa at the heart of our concerns. It demonstrates not only why we should focus the majority of our humanitarian resources and peacekeeping efforts on Africa, but also why we should undertake every possible effort to make sustainable development a global reality. The Middle East is another region that remains volatile, despite growing global concern and despite many attempts to restore the peace process in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We deem to be necessary more active involvement by the Quartet in the efforts to implement the road map and put an end to the cycle of violence. More emphasis should also be placed on the task of improving living conditions in order to normalize people’s lives to the greatest possible extent. Our support remains focused on ending the occupation, achieving a just and viable settlement based on United Nations resolutions, and the realization of the Palestinian people’s aspirations for the establishment of an independent State, living side by side with Israel in conditions of sustainable peace and security. The aspirations of humanity revolve around the achievement of full respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The collective vision and effort required to fulfil that massive endeavour demands the contribution of all, to the extent of their capabilities. Cyprus is prepared to play its part from its vantage point in the European Union, while drawing upon its traditional participation in forums dedicated to promoting agendas pertaining to those values. That affiliation has been a source of support for us since Cyprus’s independence, and its impact not only makes us grateful but also has endowed us with sensitivities that will continue to be an integral part of our approach. I would like to emphasize how proud we are that Cyprus is now a member of the European Union. The Union has outlined an extensive set of priorities for this session of the General Assembly. As the statement delivered Tuesday by the Dutch presidency has delineated those priorities, I will not elaborate on them any further. This year marks 30 years since the occupation of 37 per cent of Cyprus’s territory as a result of the invasion of the island by Turkish troops. It also marks 30 years of relentless efforts by the Greek Cypriots to achieve a just and peaceful settlement, with the support of the international community, for which I would here like to express our deep appreciation. The Secretary-General’s most recent effort to solve the Cyprus problem resulted in a plan that was described by some as a historic opportunity to solve one of the most long-standing international problems. I will outline only briefly why, despite the hard work invested in the process by everyone involved, the end product of that effort was judged to have been inadequate and to have fallen short of minimum expectations for a settlement for Greek Cypriots. First, the Annan Plan was not the product of negotiation, nor did it constitute an agreed solution between the parties. Secondly, the Plan did not place the necessary emphasis on achieving a one-State solution with a central Government able to guarantee the single, sovereign character of Cyprus. Thirdly, it failed to address the serious concerns of the Greek Cypriot community regarding their security and the effective implementation of the Plan. In rejecting the Plan as a settlement for the Cyprus problem, the Greek Cypriots did not reject the solution or the reunification of their country; they rejected this particular Plan as not effectively achieving that objective. We remain committed to a solution that will ensure the reunification of our country, its economy and its people. We are committed to reaching a solution on the basis of a bizonal, bicommunal federation. There are, however, a number of essential parameters on which the Greek Cypriot community insists such a solution must be founded: the withdrawal of Turkish troops and settlers and respect for the human rights of all Cypriots, the underlying structures for a functioning economy, the functionality and workability of the new state of affairs, the just resolution of land and property issues in accordance with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, and respect for the right of return of refugees. To that end, we welcome the recent Pinheiro progress report on the restitution of 6 property in the context of the return of refugees and internally displaced persons. Simultaneously, it distresses me to bring to the attention of the Assembly that certain provisions of the Annan Plan have encouraged the unprecedented unlawful exploitation of properties in occupied Cyprus that belong to Greek Cypriots. The most paramount feature of any settlement is the ability to instil a sense of security among the people. In that regard, the mistakes of the past must not be repeated. Cyprus must, in its future course, proceed without any grey areas with regard to its sovereignty or its relations with third-party States. If the people feel that their needs have not formed the basis of any solution that has been reached or that the characteristics of that solution have been dictated by the interests of third parties, then that solution will, unsurprisingly, be rejected. Indeed, in spirit and in practice, effective multilateralism not only encompasses but also derives from the comprehension and consideration of local realities and particulars, on which it must then proceed to formulate proposals. In the framework of the European Union, and with the aim of promoting reunification and reconciliation, my Government — despite the obstacles created by the current status quo — is consistently pursuing policies aimed at enhancing the economic development of the Turkish Cypriots. We believe that such policies, while not intended to serve as a substitute for a solution, are the most effective way to foster maximum economic integration of the two communities and to increase contact between them, so as to ensure the viability of a future solution. The Cyprus problem is not always perceived in its correct context. The fact remains that this problem is the result of a military invasion and of the continued occupation of part of the territory of a sovereign State. That fact should not be conveniently overlooked by concentrating on peripheral matters. Any initiative to solve the problem must have at its core that most basic and fundamental fact and must be based on the premise that international legality must be served and the occupation ended. Unfortunately, the fundamentals of the situation on the ground have remained unchanged for the past 30 years, since the Turkish invasion in Cyprus. That situation comprises severe violations of the most fundamental human rights. The still-unresolved issue of missing persons — an issue of a purely humanitarian nature — and that of the enclaved of the Karpass peninsula are in themselves an indication of the enduring suffering of Cyprus. That not only should point us towards the specifics of the solution to be pursued, but also must guide our actions with regard to managing the status quo. For instance, the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP), assigned the task of managing the status quo inflicted 30 years ago, should remain specific to the situation on the ground. The accession of Cyprus to the European Union, in conjunction with the lack of an agreement aimed at settling the Cyprus problem — despite our efforts and our preference for a settlement prior to accession — signifies the end of one era and the beginning of a new one. I firmly believe that the new context defined by the accession of my country to the European Union and by the expressed will of Turkey to advance on the European path offers a unique opportunity and could have a catalytic effect in reaching a settlement in Cyprus. Our vocation is to be partners, not enemies. Hence, in this new era, we call upon Turkey to join us in turning the page and in seeking ways to discover mutually beneficial solutions to the various aspects that compose the Cyprus problem. The mere realization that peace and stability in our region serve the interests of both our countries is ample evidence to prove that what unites us is stronger than what divides us.Let me begin by congratulating you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I am convinced that your work in that important post will ensure further progress towards the attainment of our common goals. I wish you the greatest of success and pledge the full support of our delegation. I should also like to take this opportunity to thank your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saint Lucia, for his excellent work and, above all, for his personal contribution to the revitalization of the General Assembly. This is the first time that the Slovak Republic has participated in the general debate of the General Assembly as a member of the European Union (EU). Slovakia fully endorses the position set out earlier by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands on behalf of the EU. I am convinced that the enlarged EU will further strengthen its constructive partnership with the United Nations. The international community is now facing challenges and threats that were unknown when the Charter of the United Nations was drafted. The multilateral mechanisms set out in the previous century have proved to be less than adequate. Recent global events ó accompanied by an increase in new and potentially more dangerous and destructive threats - have clearly demonstrated that no country can cope with security issues single-handedly, let alone tackle them over the long term. There is now a greater need than ever before for international solidarity, together with a sense of responsibility on the part of all United 17 Nations Member States for consolidating peace and stability. The Slovak Republic is convinced that a multilateral approach is the best response to emerging threats, and that the role of the United Nations in maintaining global security is irreplaceable. In addition, we agree with the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, that the United Nations can maintain such a status only if it is able to carry out its basic functions effectively, embark upon internal reform and adapt to current conditions. To that end, the only way forward involves strengthening the authority of United Nations institutions by making their work and decision-making mechanisms more efficient. That is why we have welcomed the establishment of the High- Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. Its work will undoubtedly rank among the most important contributions made towards reform in the history of the United Nations. We believe that that team of eminent personalities will provide a realistic definition of how the United Nations can contribute to global security and development. Slovakia will help to turn those objectives into reality. We perceive the issue of reforming the Security Council in the same light. Reform should involve not only enlarging the Security Council, but also making its working methods and the implementation of its decisions more efficient. The Slovak Republic continues to support the enlargement of the Security Council with both permanent and non-permanent members, with the aim of ensuring a balanced regional distribution of seats, including greater representation for the Eastern European region. In addition, I am confident that this session of the General Assembly will help to build a global security system by strengthening and consolidating the anti- terrorism coalition under the auspices of the United Nations, along with the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council. Continuing terrorist attacks are leading to significant changes in the area of global security. Terrorists do not shy away from perpetrating the cruellest and most bestial of acts; nor ó as the recent events in Beslan have shown ó do they hesitate to take the lives of innocent children. Terrorism poses a threat to everyone; no one can be neutral or indifferent. It is necessary that we be resolute and jointly mobilize our efforts in combating it. The Governments of Member States must fight more effectively against this inhuman phenomenon through mutual support, the implementation of international law and improved cooperation between international and regional organizations. The 12 United Nations anti-terrorism conventions and protocols are of the utmost importance in the fight against terrorism, and the Organization must continue to play a key role in bolstering legal instruments in that battle. The Slovak Republic supports the prompt approval of a comprehensive convention against terrorism as a whole, along with a convention aimed at averting acts of nuclear terrorism. Maintaining international peace and security has always been one of the Slovakiaís main priorities. We have long contributed military units, observers and equipment to United Nations peacekeeping missions. Since our accession to the United Nations, in January 1993, we have participated in 14 Organization-led missions, ranging from military observer missions to humanitarian and demining operations to peacekeeping duties. Since the beginning of the 1990s, the Slovak Republic has dedicated itself both militarily and politically to the peace process in the Balkans. Nonetheless, Slovakia has never abandoned its efforts to help bring reconciliation and humanitarian aid to other parts of the world. We have gained respect for our participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions in Africa and the Middle East. Slovakia also contributes to the training of peacekeeping forces. In line with General Assembly resolutions, the Slovak Government sponsored a United Nations seminar held in the Slovak Republic last May, which was attended by a wide range of delegates from more than 70 Member States. The seminar discussed the conclusions of the Brahimi report (A/55/305), which highlighted the importance of standardized training for United Nations peacekeeping missions. In recent years, the number of attacks on United Nations personnel has increased alarmingly. Slovakia is a signatory to the Convention on the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel and appeals to all those countries that have not yet done so to endorse that important international legal instrument, 18 which guarantees the protection of United Nations staff. Stabilizing the Western Balkans is a global priority and has a direct effect on the stability of Europe. For that reason, it is also one of Slovakiaís foreign policy priorities. We have fully supported the activities of the United Nations to date in using its authority effectively to help resolve the conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Serbian-Montenegrin province of Kosovo and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Slovakiaís proactive approach in that regard was demonstrated by the political stance it adopted towards the resolution of those conflicts, as well as its participation in peacekeeping missions: the Stabilization Force for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kosovo Force for the Province of Kosovo. We believe that resolving the situation in the province of Kosovo is a prerequisite for the stabilization of the Western Balkans as a whole. Kosovo still represents a potential source of regional instability. That is why we attach great importance to next yearís evaluation to be carried out as part of the Kosovo Standards Implementation Plan. A favourable result in that evaluation could launch a process under which the future status of the Serbian-Montenegrin province would be defined by the United Nations. We perceive the United Nations activities, including the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, as being of great importance in the search for a solution that is acceptable to all parties concerned, in accordance with Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). The Slovak Republic welcomed the transfer of power to a temporary, sovereign and independent Government in Iraq at the end of June. The Interim Council, which was recently established by the National Conference, represents a significant step forward in preparing for the elections to be held in January 2005. I call upon the Assembly to join us in our absolute condemnation of all acts of violence committed in Iraq aimed at spreading chaos and instability, whether by means of assassinations, the taking of hostages or the intimidation of civilians and public figures. We welcome the determination of the Secretary- General to continue providing humanitarian aid and support for the political process in Iraq. We believe that the United Nations must play a leading role in supporting the Iraqi people and the Government in their efforts to rebuild their society. Improving the security situation in Iraq is an essential condition for building long-term stability, democracy, peace and prosperity in the country. A Slovak unit specialized in locating and destroying landmines, weapons and ammunition is currently engaged in a humanitarian mission there. In addition, Slovakia has stepped up its participation by joining a programme for training Iraqi police officers. The Slovak Republic supports and appreciates the efforts of the international community to establish security and stability in Afghanistan. The International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) is playing a vital role, demonstrating how essential international cooperation can be. The most pressing issues we currently face with regard to creating stability in Afghanistan are, first, the forthcoming elections and, secondly, laying down the foundations of democracy. In addition to those political processes, establishing favourable conditions for economic development is also essential for Afghanistanís long-term stability. The Slovak Republic is contributing to such efforts through its participation in ISAF and its planned involvement in provincial reconstruction teams. The Middle East peace process must continue in accordance with the road map set out by the Quartet and endorsed by the Security Council, which envisages the establishment of two separate Israeli and Palestinian States in 2005. Both sides should fulfil their obligations stemming from that plan and previous United Nations resolutions. They should also rely upon the international Quartet for help and good counsel when taking those steps. As we are convinced that international peace, security and development are closely linked, official development assistance and cooperation with developing and transition countries are becoming an integral part of Slovakiaís foreign policy. Slovakiaís European Union membership and its growing economic potential provide both an opportunity and the obligation to cooperate in the field of development. This year, the Slovak Government has allocated $25 million for development assistance. In 2005, that figure is set to rise to almost $30 million. As a new donor country, Slovakia must work to further improve and formalize its mechanisms for providing official 19 development assistance. It is doing so with the support of the European Commission and the United Nations Development Programme. Severe humanitarian crises also pose a threat to peace and security in the modern world. Such crises are not necessarily the result of armed conflicts alone, but they sometimes have the potential to cause such conflicts. The international community has the means to intervene in humanitarian crises. With respect to the current humanitarian and security crisis in the Sudanese region of Darfur, I am convinced that the international community, in cooperation with the Sudanese Government, will find a solution to the situation through economic and financial assistance. The Slovak Republic has provided humanitarian aid to that region and supports the continuation of peaceful negotiations towards resolving the humanitarian and security crisis there. The Slovak Republic is fully aware of the enormity of the tasks facing the United Nations in the field of ensuring global peace and security. In that regard, I would like to highlight that Slovakia is a candidate for a seat as a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the term 2006-2007 in the elections to be held at the next session of the General Assembly, in the fall of 2005. I can assure the Assembly that in every respect, the Slovak Republic is ready to take on the responsibilities arising from membership in that key organ of the United Nations. As my countryís Head of State, I feel it is important to make this personal pledge before the highly esteemed session of the General Assembly. We want to use our membership of the Security Council to intensify cooperation with Member States in all regions and to be a dependable partner when seeking consensus in the resolution of complicated global policy issues. In conclusion, allow me to wish this yearís session of the General Assembly the greatest of success. May it reach conclusions that promote cooperation among Member States, international and regional organizations, and non-governmental organizations and associations ó based, above all, upon the principle of multilateralism.Samoa warmly congratulates you, Mr. President, on your election to steer the course of the Organization’s work at this critical time in its 59-year history. I know that you will continue the good work of your predecessor in highlighting the multidimensional nature of international security and the need to reform the United Nations so that our Organization responds more effectively to the current and emerging challenges facing our world. Hardly a week goes by without an act of terrorism somewhere in the world assailing our senses. Such murderous acts, regardless of the cause or grievance advanced by their perpetrators, are utterly indefensible. Many innocent lives continue to be wasted, with people killed or maimed and multitudes displaced by heinous acts designed to undermine and destabilize the collective efforts of the international community to achieve peace and security for our societies. Samoa condemns, in the strongest terms, all acts of terrorism and will continue to take actions and contribute our support to the campaign against it. Besides terrorism, other scourges to world peace and to the stability of our nations persist. The threat of weapons of mass destruction, poverty and hunger, environmental degradation, the trafficking and smuggling of human beings, HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis are becoming perennial major threats to global security. The campaign against terrorism can still be successful, but not merely by force of arms. Preventing safe havens for terrorists and closing off their sources of financing are just as crucial. But no less important is the necessity of addressing the root causes that feed terrorism. No sensible administration can fail to be moved by the tragedy of Beslan and the humanitarian catastrophe of Darfur. The imperatives for action by the Organization and the international community to address those events and their causes have been eloquently articulated by leaders who have spoken earlier from this rostrum. I wish only to recall and emphasize that actions to arrive at solutions to those events and others like them must be carried out in accordance with the rule of law. With regard to Iraq, Samoa deplores the daily violence that has killed and maimed so many people and the circumstances that have brought it about. We fully support the re-establishment of Iraq’s sovereignty, and we pray for the success of a credible election process to create an Iraqi Government with a popular mandate. Likewise, we can only pray and hope that a workable solution will be found soon for the Israeli- Palestinian conflict, before many more lives are lost on both sides. Last month, Samoa hosted, in the capital, Apia, the annual Pacific Islands Forum Summit of leaders. As the representative holding the current chairmanship of that group, I wish to inform the Assembly that the Pacific leaders again noted the dangers to the world of terrorism, and — to the Pacific region, in particular — of transnational crime, illicit drugs and the spread of small arms assault weapons. Consequently, the Pacific Islands Forum countries have strengthened their cooperation in counter-terrorism measures, as well as emphasized national efforts and regional cooperation in combating transnational organized crime and in building border-control capacities. The Pacific Islands Forum is also committed to collective arrangements and mechanisms to assist regional Governments to recover from national conflicts and crises. The success of these arrangements, undertaken with the support of the United Nations, is already evident in the positive results of the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands. While much more remains to be done, Solomon Islands is making good and steady progress, and the Forum will remain engaged in sustaining the mission. Similarly, peace has been achieved in Bougainville, with elections for an autonomous Bougainville Government to be held by the end of the year. The roles of the Governments of Papua New Guinea, Australia and New Zealand, with the support of the Pacific Islands Forum, working together with the 5 United Nations Observer Mission, is critical in guiding Bougainville during this important period. An important feature of the response mechanism put in place by the Pacific Islands Forum to assist regional Governments is its flexibility. The Pacific Islands Forum is now in the process of responding to a crisis in one of our member countries resulting from causes quite different from those in Solomon Islands and Bougainville. In recognition of the importance of good governance for economic growth and sustainable development, the Pacific Islands Forum has invited its members to become parties to the United Nations Convention against Corruption. In strengthening further the institutions of good governance in Pacific nations, the important role of non-State actors and civil society was highlighted by the Pacific leaders. One issue that the Pacific islands have brought to the attention of the United Nations over the years that remains relevant — not only for the Pacific — and that, very importantly, is advancing the cause of nuclear non-proliferation, is that of the South Pacific Nuclear-Free-Zone Treaty. The Pacific Forum has again called on the United States to ratify the Protocols to the Treaty. Although the Pacific Islands Forum has been heavily engaged in overcoming crises with which some of the regional Governments are grappling, several Pacific island nations, in addition to Australia and New Zealand, have nevertheless been contributing in ways we can to the United Nations peacekeeping efforts. As for my own country, we provide police to the United Nations peacekeeping missions in Timor-Leste and Liberia, in addition to those we have committed to Solomon Islands. Clearly, our small nations are trying hard to contribute to the security and peace initiatives of the United Nations. However, national obligations — including reporting obligations for the various conventions and United Nations resolutions on security and terrorism — place an onerous burden on the infrastructure and administrative capacity of small States. We therefore seek the understanding of the Organization and encourage the appropriate United Nations bodies to explore innovative ways to help small States meet their commitments. Mr. Spencer (Antigua and Barbuda), Vice- President, took the Chair. The challenges to and special needs of small island developing States are well known, and are reflected in the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which has been in place for the past 10 years. Sadly, despite the commitments made 10 years ago at Barbados and during the 1999 mid-term review in this Hall, the achievement of those goals continues to elude us. It is our fervent hope, however, that the International Meeting due to take place in Mauritius next January to comprehensively review the Barbados Programme of Action will provide an opportunity for the international community to demonstrate the political will and commit sufficient resources to allow our small island developing nations to overcome the unique challenges we face. The series of hurricanes that wrought massive devastation in some island nations of the Caribbean and in the United States is a stark reminder of the extreme challenges faced by small island developing States and of their vulnerability to disasters. Our Pacific island nations, including my own country, know from our bitter experience of cyclones that regularly batter our region about the disheartening effect of such disasters in setting back, in a matter of hours, the hard-earned development achievements of many years. The concerns and the vulnerability of our nations are therefore quite real. While we accept the primary responsibility for achieving the goals of the Programme of Action, the reality is that the support of the international community is indispensable to its success. We therefore call on the United Nations system and the international community to provide the necessary support to complement ongoing and future programmes, as well as for the implementation and monitoring of the Mauritius outcomes for the sustainable development of small island developing States. Likewise, the importance of multilateral institutions such as the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in this process cannot be overemphasized. We therefore urge GEF to apply its rules of access and to simplify its disbursement procedures in order to take 6 into account the special circumstances of small island developing States. Trade is a vital component of sustainable development, especially for small island developing States. We therefore continue to urge that the vulnerabilities of small States be taken fully into account in the World Trade Organization negotiations, particularly with regard to special and differential treatment for small economies. The review of the Millennium Development Goals next year will provide an opportunity for the international community to take stock of progress and to identify remedial strategies and commitments for the further realization of those Goals. Samoa remains committed to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. The election of the second Deputy Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court just two weeks ago completes the process of the full institutionalization of the Court. Samoa warmly welcomes the broad complement of judges and officers of the Court and adds its voice in urging other United Nations Members to accede to the Rome Statute for the establishment of the Court. Given its role in upholding international humanitarian standards and in protecting human rights, the Court deserves the support of the international community to give it the full universality it requires. We thank the Secretary-General and the previous President of the Assembly for their very commendable work in advancing the revitalization and reform of the Organization. To this end, Samoa fully supports the work of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, and looks forward to its report at the end of the year. We believe that the outcome of United Nations reform should include the restoration of the primacy of the role of the General Assembly and the attainment of a more effective and efficient Secretariat. In particular, we support the enlargement of the Security Council and strongly recommend the inclusion of Japan and Germany as permanent members. Finally, I offer Mr. Ping my delegation’s full support in the discharge of his numerous responsibilities, and I wish him well in his presidency.May I, as Prime Minister of Malaysia and in my capacity as Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement and Chairman of the tenth Islamic Summit Conference, offer my sincere congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election as the President of the General Assembly at its fifty- ninth session. I am confident that with your wisdom, experience and diplomatic skill, you will steer the proceedings of the Assembly to a successful conclusion. I assure you of Malaysia’s fullest cooperation. I strongly believe that the member countries of the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of the Islamic Conference would similarly render all their support and cooperation to you. Allow me also to pay tribute to your distinguished predecessor, the Honourable Julian Robert Hunte of Saint Lucia. He discharged his responsibility with dedication and full commitment, in an efficient and effective manner. I commend especially his leadership in moving forward the process of revitalization of the General Assembly. I wish to commend as well the Secretary-General and the Secretariat for their perseverance and relentless efforts in pursuit of the goals of the United Nations. In particular, I congratulate the Secretary-General for his initiatives to claim for the United Nations a more central role in the management of world affairs. I salute also the dedicated men and women of the United Nations who have sacrificed their lives in the service of humanity. When we met last year at the Assembly’s fifty- eighth session, we were deeply distressed that there was so much gloom in the international situation as a result of a breakdown in the multilateral negotiating processes. We were bitterly divided over the invasion of Iraq; there was great disappointment about the deadlock in the World Trade Organization ministerial meeting in Cancún, and we had to mourn the death of international civil servants who were killed during an act of terrorism against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. 2 Therefore, I consider it our solemn obligation at this fifty-ninth session to reaffirm the rightful role of the United Nations in the management of critical issues affecting international peace and security, and commit ourselves to abide by multilateralism in the quest for a more just and equitable international order. We must also take the necessary steps to ensure that never again should the United Nations be sidelined. As the General Assembly is the most representative organ of the United Nations, we must dedicate ourselves to finding consensus on measures to revitalize the Assembly to fulfil its mandate in accordance with the Charter. We must build upon the work done in the fifty-eighth session. Again, we look towards the leadership of the Assembly President in that regard. In that connection, the Malaysian delegation wishes to advocate that this fifty-ninth session of the Assembly accord high priority to ensuring that the United Nations regains its central role in social, economic and development issues. The United Nations — through an enhanced Economic and Social Council — should provide the impetus for the creation of an international economic system which better promotes the interests of developing countries. The United Nations must do more to realize all internationally agreed targets, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. As the eradication of poverty and hunger is fundamental to the achievement of those Goals, Malaysia fully appreciates the Brazilian initiative to create new and innovative forms of funding to meet those challenges. We look forward to receiving the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, appointed by the Secretary-General last year. We believe the Secretary-General will make his own recommendations based on that report, and they should provide the basis for in-depth discussion among Member States in the months leading up to the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. This world body, the processes of multilateralism and, indeed, the entire international system must necessarily change. However, those changes must be effected without sacrificing certain immutable principles, such as sovereign equality, non-interference in the domestic affairs of States, peaceful settlement of disputes and respect for international law. What we do in that respect during the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly will therefore be crucial. Reform of the United Nations is a cause particularly dear to both the Non-Aligned Movement and the Organization of the Islamic Conference. They look forward to working closely with you, Mr. President, as well as with other Members of the United Nations and the Secretary-General on this matter. Most immediately, we must find ways and means to let the United Nations assume its proper role in combating international terrorism. Malaysia is convinced that the fight against terrorism cannot succeed through the force of arms alone. To win it, we need to exert genuine efforts and demonstrate good faith to address the root causes of terrorism, one of the most obvious of which is the unfulfilled dreams of peoples struggling for independence and aspiring to sovereign States of their own. To find the answers, we must promote genuine dialogue and rid ourselves of the prejudices and bigotry triggered by the events of 11 September and further aggravated by subsequent events. The United Nations is clearly the best forum for such a dialogue to take place without malice, in a shared environment that is devoted to finding peace among nations and building friendship between peoples. The United Nations can facilitate the convening of a special international conference to consider the question in all its aspects, including the root causes of terrorism and the issue of State- sponsored terrorism. One of the most important aspects to be addressed by such a dialogue is the necessity to inculcate a frank appreciation, understanding and acceptance of different civilizations and cultures, including religions. There is an urgent need to stop tarnishing the Muslim world with unfair stereotypes. We must cease associating Islam with violence, poverty and indignity. In reality, the troubles have nothing to do with Islam; nor are the problems exclusively associated with Muslims. We need to clear the confusion that links the problems faced by some Muslim countries with the religion of Islam. We also note with great concern the increasing tendency to link the fight against terrorism with the campaign against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Developing countries suffer as a result of restrictions imposed on their access for peaceful uses 3 to the technology, equipment and material necessary for their economic development. Malaysia is fully and firmly committed to the cause of non-proliferation, but there must be multilateral negotiations for universal, comprehensive and non-discriminatory agreements and arrangements. Above all, nothing should be done at the expense of the resources needed for the international development agenda. Most damaging of all is the increasing tendency to attribute linkages between international terrorism and Islam. The time has indeed arrived for us to debunk, once and for all, the theory that there is a clash of civilizations. I speak from the experience of my own country, Malaysia, where we have shown that Islam is not an impediment to modernity and to democracy. It is not an impediment to rapid economic growth, to self- respect and confidence, to tolerance and mutual respect across religions, cultures and ethnic groups. In Malaysia, we celebrate the multi-ethnicity of our people, of Malaysians. For us, our multi-ethnic and cultural diversity is a national asset. It has taught us to be tolerant, value mutual respect and cooperate for the common good. We sincerely believe that this message deserves a wider audience. I am certain that the Organization of the Islamic Conference would be supportive of a dialogue designed to create greater understanding between peoples and civilizations and that would lead to real action and effect changes at the societal level. The Non-Aligned Movement, too, would be equally keen to support initiatives that would have the effect of establishing harmony and restoring stability in the world. Since the stability of many nation-States continues to be threatened, especially by armed conflicts, there is a critical need, more than ever, for Members of the United Nations to unite and close ranks to put a stop to such conflicts, be they inter-State or intra-State. Iraq is still in turmoil. Although Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) of 8 June 2004 enabled the return of sovereignty to the people of Iraq, the unrelenting conflict continues in that country. The same resolution also renewed the mandate of the multinational force, but the reality on the ground suggests that the existing arrangements cannot stabilize the situation there. The situation in Iraq clearly calls for the United Nations to be given the lead role, particularly in establishing stability in preparation for the elections scheduled for January 2005. Orderly elections are critical to the process of re-establishing a truly independent and sovereign Government in Iraq. The United Nations also has the best credentials to enable Member States to take part in peace-building and in the reconstruction of Iraq. The international community owes it to the people of Iraq to summon its collective resolve and political will to allow all of that to happen. If we collectively succeed in assisting Iraq to seize the moment, we would also succeed at the same time in bringing a closure to the bitter divisiveness which was brought about, in the beginning, by unilateralism over that same issue. While the precarious situation in Iraq cries out for United Nations action, the plight and suffering of the people of Palestine remains a tragic embodiment of the consequences of non-implementation of United Nations resolutions and the non-enforcement of United Nations decisions. We must actively revive the road map for peace in the Middle East, which remains unimplemented. The Quartet needs to play a more vigorous role. The international community must lend its full weight to push for an independent and sovereign State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital, and with Israel and Palestine living peacefully, side by side within secure and recognized borders. To create an environment of confidence for the speedy resuscitation of the road map, we must seriously consider approving the deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping force or the deployment of an international monitoring mechanism to oversee the implementation of the road map for peace in the Middle East. We must also find ways to give effect to the historic advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legal consequences of the construction of a wall in the occupied Palestinian territory. In October last year, the General Assembly overwhelmingly adopted a resolution demanding that Israel stop and reverse construction of the wall built in the West Bank. It is unacceptable that a multilateral resolution giving effect to the International Court of Justice’s advisory opinion cannot be effectively implemented. Clearly, the search for peace and security also depends on our willingness and determination to ensure its enforceability. 4 I strongly believe that multilateralism is the only approach for implementing resolutions and decisions concerning global peace and security. Adherence to the Charter of the United Nations should be a solemn obligation, not a matter of choice. For Malaysia, the United Nations is crucial as the guarantor of the sanctity of our existence as a sovereign nation and as the institution where the principles of international law are protected and safeguarded. Small nations such as Malaysia do not have the military and other means to insulate themselves from invasion or occupation by big Powers. But no sovereign nation should ever be subjected to the threat of military action by another. No international intervention should ever be undertaken unless consistent with the United Nations Charter. If the law of the jungle were to prevail, the small and the weak would certainly perish. In this matter, no one should ever lose sight of the fact that when the defence of the nation-State is called for, it is actually the well-being of the State’s people that is at stake. The world must take special note of this and give due recognition to the voices and the contributions of global civil society in matters affecting international peace and security. To foster genuine peace and security, the world naturally looks to the big Powers for leadership. A sincere commitment to multilateralism on the part of the big Powers will send a strong signal to all nations, large and small, that the purposes and principles of the United Nations shall form the basis of the conduct of relations between nations. Such a commitment will also provide the foundation for a true international partnership, not only for establishing global peace and security but also for achieving international economic and social development. Of course, multilateralism can be sustained only if it embraces all nations as important stakeholders and excludes none. Therefore, urgent steps must be taken to make multilateral processes relevant and effective. To begin, the principal organs of the United Nations, in particular the Security Council, should be rendered more democratic and more representative of the number and geographical distribution of its international membership. The exercise of the veto by the permanent members of the Security Council should be regulated in order to prohibit that power from being used at the sole discretion of its holder. It is unjust that any single country should be allowed the impunity of overruling at will the wish of the majority. That injustice can be rectified, for example, by enabling certain types of General Assembly resolutions to overrule a Security Council veto. We must find a comprehensive and just solution to the problem of Palestine. We must allow the United Nations to take the lead role in stabilizing the situation in Iraq. We need to address seriously and resolutely the scourge of international terrorism, the elimination of global poverty, the proliferation of transnational crimes, the destruction of the environment and the spread of the AIDS epidemic, as well as the economic and social advancement of all humankind. The global economic order, especially in the sphere of international finance, must be made more fair and equitable. The way forward and our best hope lie in universal commitment now to multilateralism.It is an honour for me to stand here today to address the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. When, in 1945, Liberia joined the efforts to establish this Organization in order to bring an end to a global war and to pursue justice and maintain world peace, little did we know that we had subscribed to an insurance policy that, 59 years later, would provide coverage for Liberia and redeem its people and its sovereignty. As members know, Liberia is a country in transition from continued crisis to sustainable peace. The United Nations, the United States and the European Union have all worked with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to stabilize the situation, attending to the humanitarian crisis and navigating the difficult road to peace. We remain immensely grateful for the role of South Africa and ECOWAS for providing regional leadership in the search for peace in Liberia. The pivotal roles played by both the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Republic of Ghana deserve special commendation. We are particularly grateful to Secretary-General Annan and the United Nations, the United States and the European Union for partnering with ECOWAS in these endeavours. I am pleased to inform this Assembly that the Comprehensive Peace Agreement singed in Ghana in August 2003 continues to guide the Liberian peace process. A power-sharing National Transitional Government comprising all warring factions, political parties, and civil society is working. The ceasefire agreement signed on June 17, 2003, continues to be insured by the 15,000-strong United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL), operating with a Chapter VII mandate. The force is now disarming and demobilizing all armed groups. At the beginning of the United Nations Mission in October 2003, we estimated that some 38,000 combatants would have submitted themselves to the disarmament and demobilization program. Today, 73,600 fighters have been disarmed. Over 22,000 pieces of serviceable weapons of all kinds have been surrendered and decommissioned, and more than 17 5 million rounds of ammunition collected and destroyed by UNMIL. Meanwhile, the high number of combatants disarmed and demobilized has overwhelmed our capacity to rehabilitate and reintegrate them. The absence of social infrastructures exacerbates the situation. War-related damage to the national infrastructures and community facilities is extensive. Without exception, all communities have lost their capacity to accommodate and support even the slightest caseload of returnees. Some of the ex-combatants have enrolled in civil works programmes sponsored by UNMIL, the European Commission, the United States Agency for International Development and the People’s Republic of China. A significant number are seeking readmission into regular academic programmes. Others are enrolling in vocational training institutions to acquire life skills. There are special efforts being made for children and female former fighters to receive specialized care and training through programmes sponsored by United Nations agencies and other international and local non- governmental organizations. As a direct result of the civil conflict, a sizeable number of Liberians are currently residing outside of the country, mostly as refugees. As disarmament nears completion and as our Government extends its authority, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is preparing for organized repatriation of Liberians. In addition, some 500,000 internally displaced persons are expected to commence leaving their camps and returning to their local communities towards the end of October this year. The role the United Nations is playing to bring sustainable peace and human dignity to our country and people is phenomenal and indicative of the new challenges which the United Nations and the international community must face and meet head on if we, the people of the United Nations, are to live in peace and enjoy our inalienable rights. Peace and the freedom to enjoy those rights under the rule of law require not just curative measures, but preventive actions to address the problems of poverty, ignorance and disease of the world’s poorer peoples and countries. The National Transitional Government’s recovery agenda has as its focus the improvement of the well- being of our people by the creation of employment opportunities to put returnees and ex-combatants to work. Our recent history teaches us that when ex- combatants are not meaningfully rehabilitated and reintegrated and that when many in our society are not stakeholders and are excluded, we run the risk that they will return to violent crime and conflict. We are extremely worried about that prospect. Against that background, there is now real urgency to revive our economy and create jobs. That is why, in June of this year, I pleaded with the Security Council to lift the sanctions imposed on diamonds and timber — two sectors that hold great potential for job creation and economic recovery. Sanctions continue to hurt Liberia. It must not be forgotten that the sanctions were imposed primarily because Liberia was exporting conflict by trafficking in arms for diamonds. A related reason was the lack of transparency and accountability in the management of State resources, especially from the forestry sector and the maritime programme. That situation no longer obtains. Our Government is not buying arms. To the contrary, we are disarming tens of thousands of combatants. We are also cooperating with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Commission and the United States Treasury and State Departments in putting into place proper mechanisms for transparency and accountability in the use of State resources. In that regard, the European Commission is funding the systems audit of five revenue-generating agencies and the Central Bank of Liberia. The World Bank is working with the Government to reform the public procurement system and is assisting the Liberia Petroleum Refinery Corporation to put into place a system of international competitive bidding of petroleum products. The IMF is assisting the Central Bank to introduce transparency in the management of the foreign exchange regime. The United States Treasury Department is engaged with us in financial sector reforms, particularly in the areas of monetary policy, revenue enhancement, budgeting and expenditure controls. Also, the United States State Department is working with the Forestry Development Authority in implementing an environment-friendly forestry reform programme. 18 Given all these efforts, we once again appeal to the Security Council to lift the sanctions to enable us to create jobs and to attend to the enormous social needs of our people. In early February, the United Nations, in collaboration with the World Bank and the United States Government, co-hosted a donors conference for Liberia. The aim of the conference was to seek support for our two-year reconstruction plan. The international community responded generously with pledges of $520 million. I am happy to report that, to date, $455 million of those pledges have been classified as firm commitments. Projects are under way to spend those funds and to bring much needed relief to our people. Elections in Liberia are not new, but most have been characterized by widespread rigging. Thus, unfair elections in themselves have been a major source of conflict in Liberia. This time around, Liberians are determined to undertake free and fair elections as an equity participation in the investment of sustainable peace and national renewal. The Transitional Government remains committed to the holding of elections in October 2005 and to the smooth transfer of power to a democratically elected Government in January 2006. Liberia has developed strong collaborative efforts with our neighbours in the Mano River Union to end the activities of armed non-State actors. The Mano River Union countries have committed themselves to strictly adhering to the Non-Aggression and Security Cooperation Treaty of the Union and the meticulous implementation of the fifteenth protocol. Liberia reiterates its commitment to cooperating with all provisions on security and peace as enshrined in the charters of the United Nations, the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States and the Mano River Union. We call on the United Nations to urgently engage in crisis prevention and in strengthening the peace in our region. In that regard, we urge this body to work with regional and subregional organizations, such as the African Union and ECOWAS. Today more than ever before, the utility of the United Nations is being tested. Never before has the world faced so many different types of conflicts in so many different places at the same time. However, we are encouraged by the fact that the high number and complexity of those problems have not lessened the determination of Member States to stay the course of fostering international peace and stability. The threat posed by global terrorism, combined with widespread poverty, especially in developing countries, constitutes a real barrier to the attainment of the Millennium Goals. The continued existence of conflicts in the Middle East provides a source of worry. After decades, it is time that a workable solution be found to the Israeli-Palestinian issue. The current Iraqi crisis is also troubling to a world body searching for solutions to world conflicts. Liberia calls for a unified global approach to the Iraqi question and urges the United Nations to play an active role in the resolution of that crisis. In Africa, news from the Darfur region in Sudan is frightening. We support the position of the African Union on the Darfur problem and ask for a speedy resolution of the crisis so as to bring relief to the region. The recent massacre of nearly 200 Tutsi in Burundi sends a grim reminder of the 1994 genocide in Rwanda. Urgent action should be taken to contain the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Making peace is difficult because the resolution of conflicts sometimes engenders new contradictions that must be addressed. In post-conflict situations like ours, where national capacities have been decimated, the continued goodwill of the international community to assist in reconstruction is paramount. We thus pray for the continued engagement of the United Nations in global crises. Liberia has gone through 15 years of violent conflicts. In Accra, Ghana, in 2003, Liberians reasoned together to reject war and build a better society. Liberia is now breaking through from being a failed State to being a democratic and vibrant society. There is now a growing sense of hope and optimism among our people. We cannot fail now, for we have seen the cost of war as compared to the price of peace. Liberians have finally resolved to choose the path of peace and stay on it.My delegation, Sir, is delighted at seeing you presiding over this session of the General Assembly. We also wish to state the high esteem in which we hold the past President, Mr. Julian Hunte, of Saint Lucia, and for Secretary-General Kofi Annan. The Seychelles, a small island country, is defined by the fact that it belongs to two regions — the Indian Ocean and the African continent — and by the fact that it belongs to several linguistic and cultural areas. Today we wish to be an example of cohabitation of man and nature and an example of unity and cohesion with our people. These two objectives are at the heart of our development plans. In April of this year, Mr. James Michel succeeded Mr. Albert Rene in the presidency of the Republic through a calm and proper political transition. The new President defends the same development philosophy, taking into account, of course, changes on the world scene, and the economic needs that are inherent in starting a new phase of our development. Thus, the President has assessed our difficulties and the options available to us in different areas of our economy, such as the balance of payments, the debt burden, access under reasonable terms to capital — and in this context we are a middle-income country — access to markets, and so forth. Together with the Bretton Woods institutions and our other customary partners, we have committed ourselves to a progressive programme of adjustment and of giving new dynamics to our economy. Of course, we are progressing at our own pace, because we remain a vulnerable economy, since we are a small island country, isolated from markets. I would like to say a few words about the Seychelles’ commitment to the international community. First of all, on the question of security, the fight against terrorism, money laundering and drug trafficking are, in the Seychelles, subjects of prevention and deterrence. We are taking action to tackle the causes, the methods and the effects of these criminal actions. The Seychelles has ratified all international conventions on drug trafficking, and we support all United Nations resolutions on the prevention and suppression of the financing of terrorist acts. We support the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF) and the requirements of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). 2 We have enacted a law this year on the prevention of terrorism, and at the present time we are revising existing legislation on financial institutions and on money laundering. I might add that our offshore sector is also being monitored in the framework of the implementation of a law on the provision of services which was promulgated last year. We are fully committed to the fight for security and stability. However, it is being done in difficult conditions, because the very questionable criterion of gross domestic product per capita blocks our access to most development assistance programmes. A small and vulnerable State always attaches more importance to recognition of its own identity and the defence of its stability. We, therefore, unreservedly support the principles and objectives of global peace, security and development that are embodied by the United Nations. We want the Organization to remain extremely active in its initiatives to restore peace, particularly in the Middle East and in Africa, to all areas where conflicts today have become chronic and are steadily worsening. We hope that the reorganization of the United Nations, which is now under way, will make it possible for it to be repositioned, on the basis of concrete actions and follow-up and monitoring mechanisms. We believe that the Security Council must be open to more permanent and non-permanent members, so that the developed and developing countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America can contribute to the Council’s dynamics. More than ever, a genuine North-South dialogue is essential to resolve conflicts and to seek shared solutions to shared problems posed by AIDS, poverty, debt and terrorism — all threats that require a joint response and shared responsibilities. This dialogue requires new ethics and a new approach to development, which revitalizes international relations and corrects injustices. It is particularly important to deal with the roots of the debt problem and to adopt energetic measures in order to assist those States whose development is stymied by this burden. We welcome the exchanges between the Group of Eight and the developing countries. This is a negotiating platform that should have brought about concrete action and implementation of the recommendations of the Millennium Summit, and those of Monterrey, Johannesburg and Doha. It is particularly important that the allocation by the developed countries of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to international development should be seen and accepted as a realistic and fair objective. We expect the meeting to be held in Mauritius at the beginning of 2005, ten years after the adoption of the Barbados Programme of Action, to produce an uncompromising assessment of the Programme’s implementation and to adopt operational measures and mechanisms. We are counting on the active commitment of our partners for that assessment and its follow-up. Support and commitment should be expressed in the area of international trade through equitable treatment towards developing countries that have structural weaknesses, such as small island developing States. Such arrangements must take into account the delicate issues of access to markets and trade relations. The goal is to prevent our countries from becoming further marginalized in a system that claims to be in the interest of all. That is why we invite the World Trade Organization to adopt an approach to development that is consistent with the developments of recent years. I am referring to the launch of the Doha round, devoted explicitly to development, and to the assertion of an African voice on sensitive issues such as commodities and raw materials. The new trade relations must also enable developing countries to continue to acquire the means to be more competitive. Another urgent matter for us, the countries most vulnerable to the consequences of global warming, is the ratification by all developed countries of the Kyoto Protocol. It is the only instrument capable of acting effectively with respect to a danger of concern to all. We believe that a special fund should be established in the United Nations to help fragile economies confront losses, including loss of income, caused by climate change. I reaffirm the importance we attach to the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) because it is one of the best tools for enabling African countries to manage their own development. We appreciate the commitment of the Group of Eight in this regard through its African Action Plan, and it is our heartfelt hope that NEPAD’s development agenda will comprehensively address the specific needs of the eight African island States. 3 All these questions are of capital importance today. We hope that the British presidency of the Group of Eight in 2005 and the United Nations summit to review the Millennium Development Goals, also scheduled for 2005, will work a very clear rebalancing in favour of our countries. Seychelles reaffirms its support for the General Assembly, and we thank you, Mr. President, for your personal action. We also thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan. My country is an advocate of the cause of development, which is a fundamental right. That right entails the obligation of political solidarity in the most active sense of the term.We all pinned great hopes on the advent of the twenty-first century with regard to a more stable and secure world and sustainable development for humanity. We were all eager to expand the positive achievements of the twentieth century, which witnessed rapid technological and social progress, the beginning of the space age, the advancement of democracy and the globalization of the planet. We all wanted to leave behind the destructive impact on human history of two world wars, continued blood conflicts, millions of refugees, poverty and the destitution common in most countries of the world. It had seemed that, at this junction of centuries and millennia, humanity would rediscover and appreciate more deeply the value of a world without wars or violence and the significance of solidarity and mutual understanding, of true human rights and respect of the views of others. Now, however, it has become clear that it is impossible to comprehend the dynamics of global development or to find adequate answers to modern challenges without the United Nations as a leader. The impression had been that, in the new century, our civilization would embark on the path towards a global society where harmony would prevail over hatred and stability put an end to suspicion — a society where the agreed rules of conduct set out in international law, binding for all, would stand in the way of isolationism and separatism; where all internationally relevant issues, including the most urgent ones, would be resolved at the negotiating table; and where the use of force would not be the rule but, rather, the exception, and only when sanctioned by collective decisions of a capable and representative Security Council. Unfortunately, the twenty-first century has brought more new and menacing challenges than solutions to the numerous problems faced by humankind. The number of wars and military conflicts has not diminished but increased. The peaceful resolution of the inter-Tajik conflict achieved under United Nations auspices is more the exception than the rule in the context of the efforts to achieve peace undertaken by the United Nations. The world’s peoples increasingly feel that the world is in a state of permanent war rather than working towards development. Every day we hear about the dangers of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the struggle against international terrorism. These are urgent problems, and we cannot but be concerned about them since weapons of mass destruction are capable of destroying hundreds of thousands of human lives, while acts of terror can destabilize entire countries. For those reasons, we are firmly resolved to transform Central Asia into a region free of nuclear weapons. The recent tragic events in the town of Beslan, in the Russian Federation, are clear evidence 9 that the forces of international terrorism are, day by day, becoming more daring and continue to challenge the whole of humankind. Tajikistan resolutely condemns the acts of violence perpetrated against defenceless women and children in North Ossetia and appeals to the international community to undertake urgent collective measures to combat this scourge of the twenty-first century. It is comforting that the international solidarity demonstrated in the struggle against such a bloodthirsty and treacherous enemy as terrorism is gaining in strength. Tajikistan has been actively waging, at the regional and international levels, a multifaceted struggle against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and terrorism. At the same time, in order to definitively put an end to terrorism, it is very important to reach a universal understanding of its nature and manifestations in order to eliminate any obstacles that stand in the way of the development and adoption of a comprehensive convention on international terrorism. While we can rightly be proud of having created, within a short period of time, a united anti-terrorist coalition of States, unfortunately we cannot say that we have achieved the same degree of solidarity in the fight against poverty and destitution. For decades, States with low levels of income have not been able to free themselves from their destructive debt burden so as to be able to enjoy the advantages of civilization. For instance, Tajikistan, which lived through a civil conflict, continues to face urgent economic and social problems, despite having made some economic progress. Eighty per cent of the population of Tajikistan still lives below the poverty line. Because of the lack of access to the sea, many regions of our country are cut off from the outside world, which results in our paying higher prices for imported goods and increased transit fees. Forty per cent of all budget revenues go to servicing external debt, which limits the Government’s capacity to meet the urgent needs of the population. Writing off a portion of the accumulated debt would make it possible for those countries to invest in education, health care and environmental protection, and, in the case of Tajikistan, could be helpful in rehabilitating the social sphere, which has suffered as a result of the civil conflict and natural disasters. However, the idea of exchanging debt for sustainable development has not yet garnered solid support among creditors. In that area, we still encounter inertia and a lack of political will. It is clear to us that the resolution of political issues, including those related to international security, depends, to a great extent, on social and economic development and on the achievement by all countries of the Millennium Goals. In a globalized world, achieving the Millennium Goals will require the utmost solidarity as well as interaction among the international community as a whole, with the United Nations as a leading coordinator, in its capacity as the most universal and representative international Organization. The key to success lies in developing a common and comprehensive approach to addressing poverty- related issues, enhancing the means available as well as seeking innovative ways of securing financing for development, eliminating ecological threats, addressing demographic problems, ensuring an equitable international finance and trade system, and dealing with the aftermath of natural disasters. Failing that, the situation will remain the same: a quarter of the world’s population will continue to prosper, using more than half of the world’s resources, while the majority of the world’s population, finding themselves marginalized, will remain mere observers of global economic development. The ever-increasing severity of these problems makes them global threats to international peace and security. For that reason, we support the Secretary- General, Kofi Annan, in his efforts to restore the balance of priorities on the agenda of the international community. The international community should also strive to ensure maximum coordination of the actions taken at the global level in terms of monetary, financial and international trade policies. In that connection, it is important to strengthen the role of the United Nations as the key force for political mobilization in those areas. That requires, on the basis of the Monterrey consensus, a further reinforcement of the interaction among the United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization, which Tajikistan hopes to join in the near future. 10 The issues of economic rehabilitation, poverty eradication, improved living standards for the population and long-term sustainable development are among the top priorities for Tajikistan, as an economy in transition. At the same time, for a number of reasons, Tajikistan still needs the assistance of the international community in supporting national efforts to ensure long-term sustainable development in the country. We appreciate the continued efforts of the donor countries and United Nations agencies such as the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the World Food Programme and others to assist vulnerable segments of the population, as well as their support in the ongoing transition to a socially oriented market economy. Given our own experience, we support the priority attention given by the United Nations to increasing the effectiveness of the assistance rendered to countries in post-conflict situations and to receiving feedback in that area. There is no doubt that the United Nations is the key player in providing timely and coordinated responses to post-conflict situations. The success of the United Nations in this area depends to a great extent on a qualitative interaction with host Governments in the area of reinforcing national potential, the introduction of effective instruments and mechanisms for the coordination and mobilization of resources, and increased interaction with the Bretton-Woods institutions in the context of a joint assessment of their needs and specific project activities. In this regard, it is noteworthy that one of the lessons learned from the peaceful settlement of the inter-Tajik conflict is the need for donor countries to be active not only during the crisis but also in the post- conflict period. I am convinced that strengthening the foundation of peace and stability in countries living through conflict requires not only humanitarian assistance but also actual help in addressing economic problems and support for countries’ efforts to create a dynamic and stable economy. As a rule, these kinds of investments, within the framework of a peaceful process, turn out to be instrumental in strengthening young democracies born out of conflict. There is no doubt that the parliamentary elections to be held in Tajikistan in early 2005 will prove once again the vitality and irreversible nature of the peace process in Tajikistan and the robustness of the country’s democratic institutions. Achieving ecologically sustainable development on the global, regional and national levels remains an issue of top priority. Tajikistan intends to continue to contribute to the implementation of the relevant decisions of Johannesburg and other international forums. The 2005-2015 International Decade for Action, “Water for Life”, to be launched on 22 March 2005, was initiated by our country and is expected to combine efforts undertaken by Governments, the United Nations, international organizations, civil society and the private sector. These efforts are aimed at identifying effective ways of achieving the internationally agreed goals in the area of fresh water resources, developing strategies, programmes and laws to protect water environments and increasing investment and voluntary donor contributions, two activities associated with ensuring access to fresh water to all persons in need. We ask the Governments of all countries, as well as United Nations agencies, to undertake practical activities within this decade. This is the key to success, and it will require a great deal of work. In some regions of the world, the international community is faced not only with the problem of conflicts and wars that interfere with long-term development, but also with illicit drug trafficking, which poses a threat to civil society. We cannot help being concerned with the fact that global demand for prohibited drugs is not decreasing. For instance, the volume of criminal transit of narcotics via Tajikistan constitutes a serious threat to our social, political and economic stability as well as to the security of the region as a whole. Afghanistan remains a major supplier of narcotics. Their production this year has set a record. The President of Tajikistan, Mr. Emomali Rakhmonov, regards the struggle against illicit drugs as one of the top priorities for our country. Thanks to the cooperation with the United Nations and interaction within Shanghai Cooperation Organization of the last five years, Tajikistan has become one of the leading countries in the world in terms of narcotics interdiction. Over this period, the law enforcement bodies of Tajikistan and the Russian border guards have confiscated about 40 tons of narcotics, with heroin constituting more than half of this total. As a result, millions of dollars have been removed from 11 circulation and hundreds of thousands of people the world over have been saved from narcotics dependency. According to Antonio Maria Costa, Executive Director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Tajikistan sets a good example for other countries as to how one can successfully struggle against drugs. The achievements of Tajikistan in this area are considered as a good basis for strengthening the struggle against the narcotics threat, but we are combating the results rather than the roots of the problem. In autumn 2005, heads of State and Government will meet in this General Assembly Hall to discuss progress in achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We attach great importance to this event, which coincides with the sixtieth anniversary of the foundation of the United Nations. We expect this forthcoming event to give the necessary political impetus to the international community in its progress towards the achievement through combined efforts of the Millennium Development Goals in the interest of a more stable, just and prosperous world.On behalf of Bolivia, I wish to express a concern that is global: the issue of terrorism. A world that is haunted by terrorism is an insecure world, one whose prospects are threatened. Bolivia believes that the fight against terrorism is one of the most important tasks we need to undertake together. The incident in Beslan in the Russian Federation demonstrates how far it is possible to go in brutal actions that are entirely divorced from any sense of humanity. The fight against terrorism must also be linked to the struggle against other scourges of concern to us all. In that context, Bolivia affirms its most resolute commitment to the fight against drug trafficking, which in our country is being waged through the eradication of excess coca, undertaken with respect for the nation’s tradition of consumption. That joint task could not be fulfilled without the presence and support of the international community and in the context of shared responsibility. Shared responsibility requires clear action to be taken on both sides of the chain of production to eliminate the scourge of drug trafficking. Shared responsibility requires the social and the economic issues to be considered when addressing the problem. Bolivia has elaborated the idea of alternative development, which we would wish to see converted into comprehensive development. In other words, the participation of the communities and villages where coca is produced in Bolivia should be part of the decision-making process and of the design of strategies to modify current practices of cultivation and to generate reasonable economic options, to open markets, and to reduce the costs of intervention to the international community in the eradication of coca, and in particular in the process of seeking viable alternative ways for the Bolivian economy. We believe that the fight against the scourges that are currently stalemating humankind could not be waged without a multilateral response to the challenges to modern society. We firmly believe in multilateralism and strongly support the United Nations as the arena of that multilateralism. We are convinced that the time has come to produce a series of comprehensive reforms in the Organization as a whole. That would require, inter alia, an expansion of the Security Council at the onset of a new historic era. As the challenges have changed, so too must the responses. In that context, we are convinced that another aspect to be thoroughly reviewed is the paradigm of global development, which is unsustainable over time and will not allow for long-term responses, but which will instead generate complex problems that cannot be resolved. A change in the development paradigm requires openness of mind and a heterodox capacity to respond to the basic parameters in which the world economy functions today, without demagogic responses or utopian solutions. On the contrary, we need to ponder such issues as hunger, poverty and exclusion, which afflict millions of human beings on our planet. This is a good opportunity to recall that, over the past year, Bolivia has experienced a particularly difficult situation. In October 2003, a social, political and economic crisis pushed our nation to the brink of confrontation and violence, with unforeseeable consequences. The crisis threatened all of our institutions, and in particular our democratic system. The Bolivian response to that crisis was issued peacefully, in respect for democracy, through a mechanism of constitutional succession that allowed me, as Vice-President, to take office as President and to assume the enormous challenges to the country in order to restore order, peace and the prospects and hopes of our society. 20 Why did this crisis occur in Bolivia? It happened because of an accumulation of historic arrears that, at some point, had to be paid for by our society. Those arrears included exclusion, discrimination, a vision of Bolivian society rife with racism, and truly dreadful poverty. The efforts undertaken by the country on the basis of a liberal economic model and of a structural adjustment model had their highs and lows. Positive results allowed for macroeconomic stability, but genuinely inadequate results in the social sphere were the outcome primarily of exhaustion and the need for different responses. All of those historical arrears fell due in October, leading to a popular upheaval that ended in social turmoil, calling not only for a short- term response — ours, I believe, was effective in that democracy and peace were preserved — but also and above all for a forward-looking solution. What are the major challenges facing Bolivia today in its geographical, historical and geopolitical contexts? It must first resolve its own conflict between society and State and the challenges of its own economic growth. One of the country’s key issues was the definition of an energy policy once we learned that our nation has one of the largest reserves of natural gas in South America. We chose a path that was difficult, yet attractive, and that marked our desire for democratic participation and participative democracy — please forgive the wordplay — within our society. We opted for a binding referendum in which the people of Bolivia were able to decide what they wished to do with their most important energy resources. The referendum highlighted our will to participate and to define our own destiny. It was successfully held on 18 July. It took place in a framework of peace, of democratic participation and of clear and convincing responses that allowed our Government to move forward with a hydrocarbons and natural gas policy that regulates export, industrialization and relations with investors and investment companies that are appropriate and useful to our nation. In this forum, I wish to affirm our belief in a constructive and mutually beneficial relationship between private investors in Bolivia and the representatives of the State. Perhaps one of the most important lessons of recent years is that we must neither revert to the old system of State capitalism of the 1950s and 1960s, nor pursue the rigid orthodoxy of the liberal vision. The answer for today is a practical combination within the false distinction between the market and the State. That distinction must be abolished and the combination made viable without exclusions and without jeopardizing the fundamental concept, in which we believe, that legal security is guaranteed by the rule of law. That is the path on which we have embarked as we work to adopt new hydrocarbons legislation. Perhaps the most important thing for Bolivia in the coming months, however, is to reach a new social covenant. While the relationship between society and the State has been severely damaged and threatened by collapse, it is clear that the concept of democratic participation has to be reflected in that covenant through a constituent assembly, freely elected to define the outline of the country that we wish to build in the immediate future. Given that my Government has no political party or organized presence in that context, we shall convene a constituent assembly that is truly pluralistic and in which the elements of our Magna Carta will be provided by various social sectors yet respond to a single basic concept: an end to exclusion and discrimination; the option — in a country where the majority is of indigenous Quechua, Aymara or Guaraní origin — for the majority to express itself; and the definition, in a democratic context and in the framework of distinct regions and distinct visions, of the profile of a viable nation. I also wish to note that we achieved something very important after the crisis: the restoration of peace through transparent, honest and austere action that Bolivia urgently needed. This does not mean that the task is done. The struggle against corruption will always be a challenge in our country, as it is elsewhere in the world, but I believe that we have demonstrated a clear commitment that has given us credibility and legitimacy in our society. Transparency, honesty and austerity are vital elements in a poor nation that must administer appropriately and efficiently the meagre resources at its disposal. In that context, I wish here at the United Nations to thank the international community, which was consistent and unified in its support for Bolivia during the crisis and in the following months, helping us to implement a consistent macroeconomic policy to resolve such serious issues as its heavy fiscal deficit. 21 Given its geographical location at the centre of our continent, Bolivia should be a pivotal country in the fast-paced process of integration. That process has two major protagonists: the Andean Community, of which we are a member, and the Southern Common Market, of which we are an associate member. At first, we were a “hinge” country, but we are now in the process of integration that will gradually encompass a large bloc of South American nations, which we welcome and towards which we are striving. In that context of coordination and integration, Bolivia holds a key play in any process of infrastructure development. In energy, Bolivia is a country that can serve as South America’s energy distribution hub. In telecommunications — fibre optics in particular — and, of course, in highway infrastructure, we are vital and must be an actor that facilitates rather than obstructs. I wish to share a thought here with such multilateral entities as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other organizations that are cooperating with Bolivia and other developing countries. Because of its revenues and high level of debt, Bolivia has been considered to be a heavily indebted poor country. In theory, that has given it a series of advantages in debt servicing and, above all, in the channelling of that servicing not towards repayment, but towards social services. Paradoxically, however, this has limited the country’s capacity to obtain non- concessional loans that would allow us to implement infrastructure projects that are of interest not only to Bolivia, but to all countries of the region. We believe that we must begin to look differently at the way international organizations interpret those loans in order to make them more flexible and to avoid the paradox whereby an advantage becomes a burden that makes development impossible. We hope that this new approach will be grasped by the international community, and in particular by the multilateral organizations. Lastly, I wish to broach a subject that we will always stress in our statements before the world community. Bolivia’s landlocked status is a factor that has curbed our development. Bolivia was born as an independent country with a coastline on the Pacific Ocean. Today, we demand free, useful and sovereign access to that Ocean. Our demand has moral, historical and legal bases and is linked to the high economic cost that has made development difficult throughout our history. We make this demand, and I want to emphasize this, on the basis of a logic of construction — a logic of integration. Chile and Bolivia are countries that complement each other. We are countries that have a destiny of shared development and integration. To fail to find a solution to the Bolivian issue is to negate the possibility of development and integration and prevent it from becoming a reality. Bolivia is prepared to undertake an open dialogue in order to find an appropriate and definitive solution to the problem. That is all the more true today because South American integration is so close at hand, and because Bolivia’s maritime problem has become an obstacle on the path to that integration. We are expressing a rational, constructive desire — a will for integration. Our demand is unchanging and has profound relevance in the context of everything I said earlier. I should like to conclude by stating here, before the nations of the world, that our country is one of peace that believes in disarmament. It believes also that we need to reflect on and change many of the paradigms which in the course of time have crystallized certain positions and have limited the open-mindedness that we need today, more than ever, in the twenty-first century, in order to face the challenges of the future.I want to talk today about United Nations reform, particularly about the way we should serve and the way we should do business if the United Nations is to play the role we want it to in the twenty-first century. The world is organized into independent States and the primary obligation of Governments is to look after their own people. This presents us with a fundamental dilemma, for unless we also act collectively on the basis of our common humanity, the rich will become richer, the poor will become poorer, and hundreds of millions of people will be at risk. Thus, we need institutions whose primary obligation is to our common humanity. Herein lies the importance of the United Nations. It comprises Member States, but its mission is, indeed, to serve the world's peoples. Its Charter makes this very clear: 'We the peoples of the United Nations [are] determined - to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women.' Others, quite properly, will talk about structural reform. But today I want to talk about reforms designed to put our common humanity at the centre of the agenda of the United Nations. Canada sees five areas where bold steps are required. The first area is the responsibility to protect - the need to develop the rules and the political will that would allow the international community to intervene in countries to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe. Darfur is a human tragedy of immense proportions. (spoke in French) We welcome the Security Council's support for expanded engagement there, although we believe the international response should be more robust. The African Union, which has agreed to lead that effort, must have the unswerving support of the international community. Canada is offering $20 million to assist, and we call on others to join in now. (spoke in English) It is good that the international community is finally moving, but it has taken far too long. The Security Council has been bogged down in debating the issue. It has looked at whether Darfur is a threat to international peace and security. It is considering whether the tragedy qualifies as genocide, because either could provide justification, under international law, for intervention. The fact is, though, that, while the international community struggles with definitions, the people of Darfur struggle with disaster. They are hungry, they are homeless, they are sick, and many have been driven out of their own country. Tens of thousands have been murdered, raped and assaulted. War crimes and crimes against humanity are being committed. We must not let debates about definitions become obstacles to action. We should not have to go through such painful exercises to figure out how to respond to humanitarian catastrophe. We need clear principles that 31 will allow the international community to intervene much faster in situations like the one in Darfur. Our common humanity should be a powerful enough argument, and yet that is precisely what is missing. Put simply, there is still no explicit provision in international law for intervention on humanitarian grounds. The 'responsibility to protect' is intended to fill that gap. It says that we should have the legal right to intervene in a country on the grounds of humanitarian emergency alone. We should be able to do so when the Government of a country is unwilling or unable to protect its people from extreme harm as a result of internal war, repression or, simply, State failure. The primary responsibility for the protection of a State's own population lies with that State itself. We are not arguing for a unilateral right to intervene in one country whenever another country feels like it. It is always preferable to have multilateral authority for intervention in the affairs of a sovereign State. What we seek is the evolution of international law and practice so that multilateral action may be taken in situations of extreme humanitarian emergency. International law is moving in the right direction. Existing instruments such as the Convention on Genocide and human rights treaties acknowledge Statesí obligations to their own people. The establishment of the International Criminal Court and criminal tribunals are further steps forward. Thus customary international law is evolving to provide a solid basis in the building of a normative framework for collective humanitarian intervention. To speed it along, however, Member States should now adopt a General Assembly resolution recognizing the evolution of sovereignty to encompass the international responsibility to people. In turn, the Security Council should establish new thresholds for when the international community judges that civilian populations face extreme threats; and for exploring non-military and, if necessary, proportionate military options to protect civilians. The responsibility to protect is not a license for intervention; it is an international guarantor of political accountability. The second area I would speak to is the 'responsibility to deny', which encompasses the need to ensure that weapons of mass destruction do not under any circumstances spread to States or terrorists prepared to use them, especially against innocent civilians. Non-proliferation and disarmament remain fundamental pillars of the commitment of the United Nations to international peace and security. In both cases, multilateralism has been challenged by dramatic changes in the security climate, and there is a clear need to make our systems stronger and more responsive. Strict verification is the key. The United Nations nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, needs stronger tools, and it needs political support. We need more rigorous controls on sensitive nuclear technology, and the Security Council must be prepared to deal with non-compliance effectively. The fact is that, as we all know, determined proliferators have been able to circumvent their treaty obligations. The United Nations should establish a permanent inspection and verification mechanism that can reinforce and supplement existing verification systems. More generally, and to show how far we have to go on the disarmament agenda, and on the responsibility to deny, the Conference on Disarmament, charged with the responsibility for negotiating new multilateral instruments, has not even been able to agree on a work plan since 1998. Surely the Conference must get back to productive work. (spoke in French) The third area is the 'responsibility to respect' human beings, their dignity, their freedom and their culture. I would like to talk about a broader notion of human rights - one that can encompass individual rights, the protection of collective rights and pluralism, as reflected in the concept of cultural diversity. In fact, the United Nations Development Programmeís recent Human Development Report stresses that cultural diversity is also tied in with freedom. That is why we support a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization instrument on cultural promotion. Since the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, humanity has made remarkable strides in the area of human rights. Conventions are now in place to protect a number of rights: civil, political, economic, social and cultural. But we must remain vigilant in the face of new forms of abuse, such as international trafficking of people and the horrifying child sex trade. 32 In addition to the protections afforded individual rights, various conventions have also been concluded to better protect minorities, to denounce racial discrimination and to combat marginalization. Nevertheless, it is apparent that the most divisive conflicts result, more often than not, from attempts by one group to prevent other groups from realizing their perfectly legitimate economic, religious, social or political aspirations. Entire communities are threatened. Violence, civil strife and even failed States ensue. Kosovo, Bosnia, the Great Lakes region in Africa, and today Darfur are the most chilling examples. The international community must take vigorous action to protect individuals as well as minority communities. It is not enough to simply possess various legal instruments; they must be put into practice. Institutions responsible for human rights must reveal to the entire world those guilty of abuse - be they armed groups, communities or Governments - and take the necessary measures. The United Nations is our moral conscience and it is up to us to act. The fourth area is the responsibility to build. The objectives of the Millennium Summit on poverty, disease and global insecurity will come to naught if we do not follow up on the Monterrey Consensus, according to which genuine development requires a holistic approach to such issues as debt, market access and social investment. That being said, as we have seen in Haiti over the past 10 years, all the aid in the world will have only a fleeting effect if a country does not have functioning public institutions. We must build countries' governance capacities and take the time to do it right. The same is true for economic institutions. Those that work well marshal the creative energies of local entrepreneurs. That is the message of the United Nations Commission on the Private Sector and Development: a thriving economy is the product of citizens' trust in their countryís public institutions. In brief, development depends on governance. Lastly, there is responsibility for the future, which is to say the obligation we have to leave a better world for our children. That is no small challenge. It involves all aspects of our common heritage: health, the environment, oceans, space. The new pandemics demand our most urgent attention. AIDS, SARS and the Ebola virus are sounding a terrifying alarm, but scientists are predicting even worse diseases. The World Health Organization must bolster its surveillance systems. It must do a better job coordinating its actions with those of other United Nations bodies. Beyond health issues lies the whole question of managing our environment. It is gravely threatened. Only international cooperation and technical assistance can bring lasting solutions to such problems as access to clean air and water. Furthermore, we need an oceans policy that allows us to rebuild our fish stocks. Access to fisheries must be better regulated under international law. Simply put, the pillage of those global resources must stop. Space is our final frontier. It has always captured our imagination. What a tragedy it would be if space became one big weapons arsenal and the scene of a new arms race. In 1967, the United Nations agreed that weapons of mass destruction must not be based in space. The time has come to extend that ban to all weapons. (spoke in English) I have talked today about responsibilities. In conclusion, let me mention one more: the responsibility to act. We await the report of the Secretary-Generalís High-Level Panel and we anticipate substantial recommendations for reform. Many countries are focused on the Security Council and we should support reforms that will make it more effective and will permit those countries which actively support United Nations peacekeeping, development and other activities to continue to have a meaningful opportunity to serve. But we must also look forward to recommendations that go well beyond the Security Council. For example, there is a need to set out measures to facilitate an integrated response to the diverse range of security challenges that each of us faces, from the proliferation of terrorism to improving United Nations coordination on development, health and the environment. As individual countries, as individual members of regional organizations, and as participants in various international groups that form around specific interests, we all must act to bridge the differences that divide us and to forge an international consensus for reform of the United Nations. In another context, for instance, Canada has proposed a special meeting at which leaders from 20 or so countries in the developed and developing worlds 33 would get together to discuss our collective challenges and responsibilities. This could very well include providing a major boost to United Nations reform efforts. In any event, no matter how one comes at it, the time has come for real reform of the United Nations. All of us in this Hall and in our respective Governments must put aside narrow interests and work to common purpose to strengthen this universal institution, whose activities give force to our common humanity. Four years ago, at the Millennium Summit, the leaders of the world agreed that 'we have a duty - to all the world's people, especially the most vulnerable' (resolution 55/2, para. 2). That duty will not be discharged unless we as Governments speak to the dignity and to the freedom of every human being on Earth, here at the world's meeting place of nations.For decades now we have been hearing very disturbing questions from this rostrum: Where is our world heading?, Where is the United Nations going? At the dawn of the millennium those questions are becoming increasingly burning issues. The world has changed. The pendulum of history has swung to the other side. There is new violence, a wave of terrorism, local wars and ethnic conflicts, behind which lie growing poverty and a widening gap in development between countries. Those are not just someone else’s problems; they are common global challenges for all of us. What kind of common house do we want? I believe that we primarily want a safe house, where our children will not die at the hands of terrorists or from hunger, sickness, anti- personnel mines, smart bombs or missiles. What, then, must we do? The answer is clear: we must establish a valid system of international security that includes military, economic, environmental, social and information elements — a system based on the rule of law in domestic and international affairs. The answer is clear, but it is difficult to do it. During the Assembly’s last session, Belarus made the rule of law in international relations the main focus of its statement. The fact that that theme has been a leitmotif of the present general debate inspires a certain hope in us, namely, that the goal is a realistic one. No right-thinking person can remain indifferent today to the heinous acts of terrorism that have characterized the start of the twenty-first century. The usual approaches, based on selfishness and unilateral advantage, are not enough to crush this evil. We need non-traditional, long-term, comprehensive solutions. Who can provide them, and how? Only the United Nations, by playing its crucial role, can do so. The Security Council’s Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) must become a real, practical tool for curbing the growth in international terrorism: strengthening the anti-terrorism coalition under the auspices of the United Nations, monitoring the implementation of the provisions of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) and putting an end to the practice of double standards vis-à-vis terrorists and terrorism. In practical terms, establishing a direct link between the CTC and regional organizations and holding more open Security Council meetings at the ministerial level could really help in the global struggle against terrorism, under the banner of the United Nations. However, such a struggle can be successful only if our common goal is to strengthen a just and humane world system. Belarus will do its utmost in that struggle. On 1 March 2004, the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction entered into force in Belarus. We have the world’s seventh largest stockpile of landmines, which we inherited from the former Soviet Union. We do not produce or export mines; nor do we use them at home or anywhere else in the world. However, guided by our common concerns and interests, we ratified the Ottawa Convention and are now counting on assistance from the international community to destroy our stockpile of mines. Tomorrow we will deposit my country’s instruments of ratification for such important international disarmament agreements as the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. Today’s most important challenges include illegal migration, transborder crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in persons and the security of energy infrastructure. In combating those threats, Belarus, 16 which stands at a major European crossroads, is a significant factor in the stability of Europe. Our country is also playing a major role in the Europe-Asia transport of energy resources. Today we call on our neighbours, NATO and the European Union to organize regional cooperation to ensure the security of critical infrastructure, such as oil and gas pipelines and power stations, including nuclear ones. Belarus has already announced its readiness to dedicate troops and resources to international structures in support of those goals. The contribution of Belarus to regional and international security, which began in the areas of nuclear and conventional disarmament in the early 1990s, continues to be a real and significant one. We are grateful to other countries and to international organizations for their assistance in the area of border and customs infrastructure. Double standards are becoming an increasingly important problem, and not only vis-à-vis terrorism. That objectionable instrument is being used primarily against States that are bold enough to follow their own foreign policy, rather than submitting to the dictates of the world’s power centres. A leader is not a dictator, and certainly not a messiah. The practice of double standards today applies primarily to the Euro-Atlantic space. But strenuous efforts are being made to introduce it in the United Nations. That would present a danger to the stability and effectiveness of the United Nations system. Belarus calls on all States that are not indifferent to the independence of the United Nations and to the role it plays not to allow that to happen. Economic security is a very important condition for sustainable development. That is a very remote concept for most of the countries of the world. As the only European State that is a member of the Non- Aligned Movement, Belarus would like to stress that the concept of centre versus periphery pits developed countries against developing countries in the industrial arena. It is also a concept that is clearly in crisis, and one that will slow us down in the search for a solution to problems of economic development. Only seven of the 50 least developed countries have achieved a 7 per cent growth rate, which is prerequisite to halving the number of people living in absolute poverty by the year 2015. One person dies of hunger every four seconds. That is just a figure, but the very banality of that statement does reveal the monstrosity of the problem and how terrible is the world’s indifference to it. The difficulty of the undertaking should not stop us from seeking ways to resolve the problem of poverty. That is why Belarus supports President Lula da Silva’s initiative to fight hunger and poverty in the world. Despite the transitional period and the collapse of our economy, my country — a large area of the former Soviet Union — was the first to solve the problem of malnutrition. Now, we are waging a struggle against poverty. Since 1995, we have almost halved the number of people living in poverty in Belarus, with the figure this year being about 20 per cent. The difficulties we have experienced have not stopped us from providing economic assistance to developing countries. We have unilaterally extended trade preferences to the overwhelming majority of developing countries. We are disturbed by a possible lessening of United Nations attention to issues involving countries with economies in transition. Belarus regards the role of United Nations programmes and funds as important to the development assistance provided to countries with economies in transition. However, under current conditions — in which some States of the region are approaching the level of the Group of Eight (G-8) and others have macroeconomic indicators that barely exceed those of least developed countries — that assistance must be carefully targeted. That means that, in planning country programmes, account must be taken of countries’ socio-economic development and the degree of their integration into the world economy and financial institutions. We intend to make that approach the basis of a draft General Assembly resolution, and we hope that members will support it. The problems associated with financing for development are extremely topical today for developing countries and countries with economies in transition. Last year’s two-day High-Level Dialogue on Financing for Development was not enough to put in place ongoing monitoring of the implementation of the decisions of the International Conference on Financing for Development. That will require an independent body of the Economic and Social Council. Belarus believes that the 2005 New York summit on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals will provide real impetus to all initiatives aimed at stimulating economic development. 17 Narrowing the technological and information divide between developed and developing countries must be our common concern. At the 2003 Geneva World Summit on the Information Society, the President of the Republic of Belarus, Mr. Alyaksandr Lukashenka, strongly urged the establishment of a trust fund to offset losses incurred by producers who provide software to developing countries at reduced costs. The format and mechanism for such a fund should be defined by a task force within the context of preparing for the 2005 summit. Having experienced the Chernobyl disaster, Belarus is acutely aware of one fact: we cannot disregard the problem of radiation security. The consequences are too enormous in scope, and too incompatible with the long-term survival of the human race. The United Nations must not lessen its attention to the problem of overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl accident. We support the work of the International Atomic Energy Agency to implement a nuclear non-proliferation regime and to strengthen nuclear and radiation security. Looking to the future to seek ways to ensure normal living conditions for people living in areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster: that will be the theme of an international conference to be held in Minsk in 2006, on the sad anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. We invite all interested States, the leadership of the Secretariat and international organizations to participate in the preparations for the conference and in the event itself. The United Nations has often been criticized. There have been many pessimistic analyses of its work and its potential. A great deal of that has been fair, but let us look the truth straight in the eyes: there is no alternative to the United Nations as a mechanism for collectively resolving global and regional issues. Nor is there an alternative to multilateralism. The reality of life convinces us of that more and more each day. Belarus looks forward with great interest to the outcome of the work of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. As a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, Belarus urges the Panel to take account of the consolidated position of the countries members of the Non-Aligned Movement as it works on its proposals to enhance the effectiveness of United Nations reform. A key purpose of that work must be to correct the imbalance in the membership of the Security Council and in the Organization as a whole, as well as to promote respect for the principle of equitable geographical distribution of Council seats. We believe there should be an increase in the category of non- permanent members, taking account of the interests of all the regional groups. We also believe in increasing the number of permanent members, including representatives from the three developing regions — Asia, Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean — as well as from two developed States, from Europe and Asia respectively, that have made the most tangible contributions to the maintenance of international peace and security. Let me return to the disturbing questions I posed at the beginning of my statement. Where is the world heading? Where is the United Nations going? The answer to the first question must be that it depends upon the United Nations. That is the main point. So far, however, that has not been reflected in the world situation. That is a harsh truth, but the truth nonetheless. We must change that situation. We can do so. It is in our common interest and in the interest of small and large States alike, as well as of both rich and developing countries. It is in the interest of the United Nations.There are moments we can describe as historical turning points, when nations and peoples must decide which side they are on. This is one of these moments, when history will judge us and examine if we were democratic leaders that represented the will of our peoples. It is clear that the peoples of the world are taking a stand against neo-liberal economics and war. They are fighting against those who would impose their will by military force and economic violence. They are resisting those who would undermine and even overthrow the basic principles that founded this Organization that brings us together today. Under such conditions, Venezuela echoes the call of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, that all the nations that proclaim the rule of law in their territory respect it abroad. As you know, the majority of the peoples and Governments of the world took a stand against the illegal war in Iraq. In this context, Venezuela reaffirms the words of President Rodríguez Zapatero that peace is a task that demands more courage, more determination and more heroism than war. The principal question for us is now the following: are we building a world of real democracy, equality and justice or a world led by the tyranny of economic and military power? The people of Venezuela were faced with such a decision last month, with a referendum on the presidency. In fact, in the last six years, Venezuelans have participated in eight democratic procedures, including referendums and elections. The 1999 Bolivarian Constitution of Venezuela allows for a mid-term referendum on a recall of the popular vote. On 15 August of this year, citizens of Venezuela clearly exercised their constitutional right and, in an historic referendum never before seen in the history of the world, ratified the mandate of President Hugo Chávez Frías, thus confirming the democratic process of structural transformation led by our President. Since the end of the last millennium, we have witnessed tremendous dissent from citizens of the world against neo-liberalism and war. In my country, by the late eighties, a set of structural adjustments, developed under the influence of the main centres of neo-liberal capitalism, was met with a popular uprising that paralysed the country, leaving an indelible mark on our people’s minds. That resistance, popularly known as “El Caracazo”, was perhaps the first protest against neo-liberalism. The poor took control of the capital, Caracas, as well as cities across the country to demonstrate their discontent with increasing poverty and the unjust distribution of the profits from our nation’s oil wealth. The ruling Government of the day responded by sending in armed forces to suppress the protests, killing thousands of people. That was a painfully tragic moment for the people of Venezuela. Nevertheless, that event provoked the necessary consciousness, igniting a political awakening among the people that allowed them to unite their voices in the fight against neo-liberalism. Over the next decade, we witnessed protests against the World Trade Organization and against neo- 44 liberalism in Chiapas, Davos, Seattle, Prague, Quebec City and Genoa. Wherever the architects of neo- liberalism gathered, they were met with massive protests in the streets. We also witnessed the desperate actions of the brave South Korean farmer in Cancún, who gave his life to call attention to the plight of his fellow farmers on the brink of disaster throughout the world. The war in Iraq only strengthened the global protests. On 15 February 2003, an estimated 30 million people around the world marched in protest and disbelief, unwilling to stand idly by as once again the world’s screams fell on deaf ears, as not-so-smart bombs fell on little children without knowing why. If we combine the protests against neo-liberal globalization with the anti-war demonstrations, we will find a global rebellion of revolutionary proportions has started. What we need to decide now is whether we will march in the streets alongside our people or hide ourselves away in an ivory tower. My fellow leaders, have we no eyes and ears? Can we not see the suffering? Can we not hear the cries of the poor, the disenfranchised, the disappeared and the desolate? Can we afford to shirk that responsibility? According to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), 44 per cent of Latin Americans live below the poverty line. Although Latin America is not the only region to face that reality, it is a particularly conspicuous example because it represents the laboratory of the neo-liberal project. Structural adjustment, as prescribed by the Washington Consensus, came early to Latin America, and its application here became the model for the neo- liberalization of the former communist-bloc countries in the 1990s. Besides being the initial site of neo-liberalism’s devastating experiment, Latin America was also the first to experience anti-neo-liberal explosion. Last March, UNDP released a report entitled “Democracy in Latin America”, which highlighted a startling revelation: more than half of Latin Americans would prefer dictatorship over democracy if an authoritarian regime would solve their economic problems. A second report, released this past August by the private firm Latinobarómetro, came to a similarly depressing conclusion — but with one notable exception: between 1996 and 2004 support for democracy actually grew in Venezuela, much more so than in any other country in the region. In Venezuela support for democracy has undoubtedly increased. Could it be that there is a direct correlation between those findings and the fact that Venezuela is actively pursuing a viable alternative to market democracy? The Nobel Prize-winning economist, Amartya Sen, affirms that democracy is the best remedy for hunger. Indeed, in Venezuela, under the leadership of President Hugo Chávez Frías, we achieved that goal by giving power to the poor. To reduce poverty, it is necessary to increase democracy. There is no other way. Democracy is also the only way to defeat terrorism. No matter if poverty and hunger create the conditions for its existence, there are no “good” and “bad” terrorists. There is only one terrorism — reprehensible, detestable and cowardly. But, once again, only through greater democracy can we defeat it. What the UNDP report reveals is that Latin Americans have lost faith in a model of democracy whose scope is limited to political representation. It is a model that has entirely ignored the economic, social and participatory facets of democracy and which has consequently completely failed to reflect the popular will. As Simon Bolívar, our visionary liberator, advocated two centuries ago, the best form of government is one that provides the highest degree of happiness, stability and social security for its people. A few days ago, President Lula of Brazil chaired a hugely successful meeting of world leaders on the theme “Action Against Hunger and Poverty”. That wonderful initiative, co-sponsored by Presidents Chirac, Lagos Escobar and Rodríguez Zapatero, expressed our common vision to fight against poverty and social injustice to guarantee security and sustainable development in both the North and the South. Our absolute support for that initiative is expressed in the document on the subject of ending poverty and giving power to the poor which we distributed to Members at the beginning of the General Assembly session. To that end we recognize the need to go beyond the traditional official development assistance framework. Venezuela’s contribution to the fight against hunger represents a genuine attempt to place the tools of development in the hands of those who need it most. In shifting from food aid to food 45 sovereignty, we are not limiting ourselves to helping to feed the poor; rather, we are committed to helping the poor to feed themselves. For that reason food sovereignty in Venezuela puts a clear emphasis on assisting small producers from community-run cooperatives. A far-reaching land reform has already transferred over 2 million hectares of land to small producers. We have also made a firm commitment to create a world seed bank in our country to protect our heritage of seeds from the violent encroachments of transgenic and genetically modified crops. In addition, we have recently created a Ministry of Food and Nutrition to guarantee our people their fundamental rights in that area. Venezuela ardently supports the initiatives under way to reform the United Nations. As supporters of multilateralism and participatory democracy, we claim a greater participation of the countries of the South at the United Nations, and particularly in a more democratic Security Council, one in which there is no right of veto. In that regard, we support the candidacy of Brazil as a permanent member of an expanded Council. Venezuela aspires to join the Economic and Social Council for the period 2005-2007. Our presence in the Economic and Social Council will help the peoples of the South to promote at the global level the ideas and social justice we are trying to enact domestically. To achieve that objective and to attain the Millennium Development Goals, we believe that the countries possessing the resources must make a financial effort commensurate with the challenge. Venezuela has invested $2 billion in social programmes this year, and we recently helped establish a fund of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to combat desertification and drought, which greatly threaten our African brothers. That assistance from OPEC members reflects our solidarity with our brothers and sisters in Africa. Venezuela has already had the opportunity to assist several African countries through its policy of cooperation. The United Nations was born in a world that was traumatized by the atrocities of Second World War, yet had the hope of creating a world of greater dignity for human beings. Fifty-five years later, when we observe that the will of the General Assembly is often not respected, it appears that we have lost our course. Thus, we run the risk of submerging the world in a war of a thousand years. It is time to put an end to the hypocrisy that permits a situation in which some resolutions are followed while others go unheeded. Let us have the courage to recover the original goals of the Assembly. If we are courageous, we will recognize not only that another world is possible but that this other world is crucial for humanity.Allow me first of all to congratulate you, Sir, on your assumption of the mantle of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- ninth session. My delegation wishes to assure you of its full support and cooperation in bringing about the successful outcome of this session. My Government expresses its deepest appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, for the outstanding manner in which he presided over the work of the fifty-eighth session. Under his visionary leadership, significant progress was made in advancing the revitalization of the General Assembly and in ensuring the return of development to the forefront of the issues addressed by the Assembly. 15 No words of praise are adequate to describe the yeoman’s task undertaken by the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan. In an international environment of turmoil and a world going through the turbulence of economic reconstruction as globalization proceeds, the Secretary-General has remained a clear, calm and moderating influence on all parties to conflict. His level-headed approach has done much to ensure the relevance of the United Nations, which the people of the Commonwealth of Dominica cherish highly. The numerous challenges facing the globalized world demand a common endeavour from all the nations of the world. Guaranteeing human rights, peace and security and ensuring social and economic justice for all require international cooperation and concerted multilateral action. Dominica is of the firm conviction that the United Nations continues to be the global institution most suited to the pursuit and coordination of these global initiatives. The multilateral institutions, however, need to be reformed if they are going to be relevant in the current global dispensation. The coordination of the United Nations effort, in harmony with national efforts, must be the focus of this institution if it is to positively impact on the lives of the majority — the vulnerable and marginalized people of the world. Dominica is a small island State with all the strengths, as well as the weaknesses, of countries with small economies. That is why we look to the United Nations as a forum in which small countries can air their views, with the aim of collectively influencing the agenda of the Organization in some way. The central question for all countries in the world today relates to the kind of arrangements that will constitute the economic order when the globalization process is complete. At this stage, globalization consists of a wide variety of treaties, some bilateral and others multilateral. From this slew of agreements, there is yet to be discerned a clear set of principles that address the idiosyncratic features of small island States when they function as economic units. Within the past six years, the economy of my country has had to withstand a number of shocks — the byproducts of multilateral treaties to which States in situations similar to that of my country have had only a minuscule input. A dispute between the United States of America and the European Union resulted in a ruling by the World Trade Organization that destroyed the banana industry, which was the backbone of the economy of Dominica. A subsequent decision by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to publish what has been described as a “blacklist” had a very adverse impact upon the offshore banking sector in my country. Dominica would like to make a plea for greater transparency and inclusiveness in the formulation of agreements which relate to development financing, trade and international tax matters. Participation ought to be substantive, not a mere formality, which is the case more often than not. We do not subscribe to the notion that mere presence constitutes significant participation. Notwithstanding our participation in multilateral institutions, the two shocks to which I referred were exogenous — originating outside our country and having nothing to do with the internal economic management of Dominica. A resolute commitment on the part of the resilient population of Dominica, with the timely help of some friendly countries and institutions, saved our country from total disaster. The lesson, which is abundantly clear to my country and to other small States, is that a new global economic order must be balanced and sensitive to the interests of its weakest members. The situation of small island developing States will be the focus of attention in January 2005, when the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action convenes in Mauritius. The Barbados+10 Meeting will afford us the opportunity to make a full assessment of the Programme of Action and to evaluate its successes and shortcomings. Dominica and other small island developing States attach great importance to the International Meeting. We hope that it will galvanize the international community to make a greater commitment to provide the critical additional resources necessary for advancing the implementation obligations of the next phase of the Programme of Action. My country is alarmed at the rise of terrorism in the world. Indeed, as we move towards a more united world where people of different races and colours are 16 called upon to demonstrate greater respect and tolerance for each other, violent attempts at solutions are counterproductive and have the unintended consequence of harming mere bystanders. The brutal and bloody terrorist acts of 11 September 2001, committed in New York City, not only had reverberations for relatives, friends and the society in general in which the brutal murders took place, but also had serious repercussions of an economic nature in places quite distant from the scene of the crime. That notorious event had a very deleterious effect upon the Dominican economy. It drastically contracted our tourist industry, which has yet to recover fully. The focus on terrorism and the cost of complying with requirements to prevent terrorist attacks in a region that is renowned as a zone of peace are challenging our commitment to social and economic development. Every cent spent on addressing this threat is a cent taken from our campaign to sustain the fight against trafficking in narcotic drugs and human beings, the pandemic of HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases and the degradation of our common environment. Water security, food security, energy security and health security are other important goals that stand to suffer if additional resources are not found to pursue them. Conflicts in various parts of the world are consuming scarce resources that are critically needed for development and poverty alleviation. On the African continent, civil conflicts in the Sudan, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo are having catastrophic consequences for the lives of large numbers of people. The continuing attention and support of the international community remain important prerequisites in the pursuit of efforts towards conflict resolution. The Government of Dominica urges an immediate end to attempts to use violence as a solution to the problems of the people of our planet and calls for a greater degree of rationality to be employed as we address the very thorny problems of life today. We are satisfied that the more rational approach that we are suggesting can solve many problems that have been in existence for generations. Prior to the abolition of apartheid in South Africa, no one would have believed that, after years of bloodshed between the races, a post-apartheid political order could have accommodated dialogue between the races in that country. The South African example shows that when persons of good-will and intellect get together problems can be resolved without recourse to terror and violence. The United Nations has demonstrated its capacity to trigger the peaceful resolution of conflicts in the past, and my Government is persuaded that it can continue to do so if permitted. I have the great honour to be the Prime Minister of Dominica at the age of 32. We in Dominica subscribe to the view that the young people of any country are its best hope for a brighter future, to be achieved through constructive change. My presence here attests to the commitment of the Dominican nation to treat younger generations not as inexperienced know-nothings, but as people with the potential to excel, to whom we must provide the best tools for ensuring quality leadership. We believe that the early exposure of young people to leadership and positions of responsibility would help to accelerate the process for achieving the goal of a world without prejudice. I have sought to summarize those issues that are of special concern to small, vulnerable States such as Dominica and others in the Caribbean. In this regard, I cannot overstate the importance of the Assembly taking cognizance of some unique features of island life, particularly in the tropics. As you are aware, Sir, at this time of the year, small island States in the Caribbean and parts of the North American continent are exposed to the threat of devastating hurricanes. This year, major disasters have occurred on several islands. Unspeakable devastation has taken place in Grenada; Jamaica has suffered substantial loss of life and damage to property; parts of the Cayman Islands were submerged, and the death toll in Haiti and Santo Domingo has been horrendous. In the United States of America, the state of Florida has experienced disaster of immense proportions. The recent experience of natural disasters underscores the importance of the necessity to put in place rehabilitation programmes that would enable destroyed economies to be revived in the minimum time. The Government of Dominica believes that an insurance fund should be set up under the aegis of the United Nations. States at risk of natural disasters that devastate their economies ought to be able to receive insurance payments to rehabilitate their economies when they are damaged by such natural disasters. 17 Participation in such an insurance plan would not be a charitable act. Each Member State would be required to pay a premium that is affordable for that country, and the funds accumulated could be used to repair damage done to the economy, especially in cases where the productive sector of a country’s economy has been reduced to paralysis. Events in the last year have underscored that peace and security in the world, social progress and economic prosperity require the consensus of Member States, the strict implementation of universal norms and commitment to multilateral action. In that regard, the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti deserves the support of all Member States, especially those in the Latin American and Caribbean region. My Government has made an important decision to support the humanitarian efforts to bring stability to the people of Haiti. We remain convinced that only the full implementation of the provisions of Security Council resolution 1542 (2004) will lead to the return of democratic governance in Haiti. Dominica commends the United Nations for bringing visibility to the problems of the world’s indigenous people during the International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People. With the impending end of that Decade this year, we urge the world community to maintain the momentum of the Decade and renew its commitment to support the future aspirations of the world’s indigenous peoples through greater contributions to the Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Populations. Consistent with the overriding principle of pursuing universal consensus and our own national development goals, Dominica chose on 24 March 2004 to act in conformity with General Assembly resolution 2758 (XXVI) of 1971 by establishing diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China, thereby honouring the one-China policy. Dominica lauds the hand of friendship extended and the demonstrated commitment of the People’s Republic of China to assisting small developing countries, which are hard-pressed to fulfil their social and economic agendas in the light of the adverse impact of the evolving new world order on their economies. In the Caribbean region, as in other regions of the world, we are witnessing the devastating impact of the proliferation of small arms. As a consequence, crime rates and civil conflicts are increasing, threatening the stability and the security of developing countries such as mine. We therefore call for the early conclusion of the negotiations on a legally binding international instrument to control the indiscriminate supply of small arms and light weapons to non-State actors. In conclusion, I reaffirm Dominica’s commitment to the United Nations agenda. For us, the United Nations is the embodiment of our collective will to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Given that those goals will create a new world order that the young people of the world will inherit, I urge that greater numbers of youth be involved at all levels in the decision-making process. That requires a massive educational programme to demystify international relations and motivate more young people to participate and help shape their world. I wish delegates every success in their deliberations at the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly.Allow me at the outset to extend my congratulations to you, Mr. Jean Ping, on your election as President of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly, and to express my conviction that this session will be concluded successfully under your presidency. Moreover, I take this opportunity to congratulate the President of the fifty-eighth session, Mr. Julian Hunte, on his dedication and on the successful fulfilment of his responsibilities. Last year was extremely challenging, for both the world community and the United Nations. In that regard, I would like to commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his efforts and contributions in preserving peace in the world. In his recent address (see ), he clearly demonstrated once again his dedication to the cause of the Organization. We certainly all agree that the United Nations continues to be the most relevant global forum addressing international peacekeeping and security issues. We also agree on the need to renew and reform its bodies and agendas in order to preserve the vital role of the Organization. In that context, we look forward to reading the report being drafted by the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, which was created by the Secretary-General. With regard to the reform of the Security Council, the Republic of Macedonia considers it extremely important to increase the membership of the Council with regard to both permanent and non-permanent seats. The renewal and strengthening of the role of the Economic and Social Council is equally relevant. The Republic of Macedonia has presented its candidacy for the election to the Economic and Social Council to be held during this session. We are confident that, if elected and with the support of the General Assembly, my country will be able to make its full contribution to improving the efficiency of the Council. As far as the revitalization of the General Assembly is concerned, we think that we must seize the momentum, implement the provisions of the revised agenda and pursue efforts to make the work of the Main Committees more focused and rational. Unfortunately, once again this year, inhuman acts of terrorism have continued to take innocent lives and to preoccupy world public opinion. We were all horrified by the images of human suffering in Madrid, Beslan and elsewhere. In order to enhance the capacity of the international community in this respect, we need to further consolidate the world anti-terrorist coalition led by the United Nations and, additionally, strengthen cooperation with regional organizations that have specific mechanisms to fight this global evil. The Republic of Macedonia will continue its active cooperation with the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the Security Council and make its own contribution to the implementation of resolution 1373 (2001). In that regard, I would like to inform the Assembly that, last May, the Republic of Macedonia ratified the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction remains one of the major threats to international peace and security, and it is closely related to terrorism. We welcome the Security Council’s adoption of resolution 1540 (2004) on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The implementation of that resolution will complement the existing set of instruments and consolidate the role of the Security Council in this area. The suppression of the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons and the total prohibition of anti- personnel mines are also very important issues, given the size of the problem and the number of victims caused by mines. Doing so will contribute greatly to conflict prevention and successful peacekeeping and peace-building throughout the world, including our region. At the end of last year, the Republic of Macedonia conducted a successful effort to collect small arms and light weapons. That effort had the support of the United Nations Development Programme. Efforts in this regard are ongoing. We expect that the first review conference of countries parties to the Ottawa Convention, which is to be held in Nairobi, will produce a summary of the results achieved through the implementation of that extremely important instrument, which will pave the way to the creation of a world free of landmines. The Republic of Macedonia has destroyed its mine stockpiles and is working on the demining of affected regions. The United Nations Mine Action Service, together with the International Trust Fund for 5 Demining and Mine Victims Assistance, have provided a great deal of help in our demining activities. Unfortunately, violent conflicts have continued this year. The armed conflict in Darfur and the terrible humanitarian tragedy it brought about require decisive action. We support the Security Council resolution in this regard, and we join the call for further and urgent action on this matter. The situation in the Middle East continues to keep the world on edge. We support the efforts of the Quartet to find a solution acceptable to all sides and we share the conviction that the road map is the only way to reach a solution for Palestine and Israel, two neighbouring States that will one day live in peace. Building peace and fostering democracy in Afghanistan and Iraq, where the Republic of Macedonia is part of the multinational force, remains a challenge facing both the international community and the peoples of those two countries. I would like to emphasize the exceptional importance of the implementation of resolution 1546 (2004), which endorsed the restoration of Iraq’s sovereignty and provided the core framework for the political transformation and democratization of that State. With regard to Iraq, I would like to appeal to the authorities of that country to do their utmost to find the three Macedonian citizens who have disappeared there. The Millennium Development Goals remain the key challenge for the Organization. In September 2005, heads of State and Government from around the world will meet to review what has been done in realizing the Goals in the five years since the adoption of the Millennium Summit Declaration. It is crystal clear that we must take decisive steps if we want to mobilize political will and resources and carry out reforms on the national and global levels to meet the Goals by 2015. However, it is already clear that some regions of the world will find it very difficult to achieve the projected Goals. Special attention should be dedicated to Africa, where the situation is alarming and the issues of poverty and hunger eradication and the problem of AIDS are very serious. Achieving the Goals will not be possible unless the international community is ready to assume its share of responsibility in that respect. The Republic of Macedonia places special emphasis on the importance of effective respect for, and promotion of, human rights as one of the pillars of every democratic society. The rule of law and effective respect for human rights are the best instrument in preventing conflicts, as well as prerequisites for peace and prosperity. Today, we are increasingly aware of the need to nurture and respect multiculturalism as a precondition to the development of a secure and harmonious world. In that regard, every effort should be made to create mutual confidence and understanding and to promote respect for differences. The Republic of Macedonia is deeply committed to those principles, and we adhere to them strictly in our actions. For half a century now, the United Nations has had a key role in the development of international human rights law. In that context, we welcome current efforts to harmonize the draft international convention to protect the rights of disabled persons. Good-neighbourly relations are one of the foreign policy priorities of the Republic of Macedonia, as one of the promoters of regional cooperation in South-East Europe. I would like to take this opportunity to inform the Assembly that, as during previous sessions, the delegation of the Republic of Macedonia will propose the adoption by the General Assembly of a draft resolution on good-neighbourly relations, stability and development in South-Eastern Europe. In recent years, the countries of the region have made considerable progress at both the domestic level and in developing mutual relations. We are actively cooperating in numerous regional initiatives and in the framework of the Euro-Atlantic integration process. However, despite the considerable progress made at the level of stabilization and improved security in the region, not all sources of potential instability have been eliminated. We strongly believe that the process of the region’s accelerated integration into the European Union and NATO will weaken existing threats at the national and regional levels. As an immediate neighbouring country, the Republic of Macedonia is following with particular attention the developments in Kosovo. We fully support the United Nations policy of standards before status, whose final goal is to establish a true multi- ethnic community and to improve security, democratization and the rule of law. At the same time, the Republic of Macedonia is also lending its continued support to the United Nations and other international bodies as they carry out their responsible missions. 6 We have developed contractual cooperation with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo in various areas, with a view to resolving concrete issues that are relevant to the population. We expect very soon to start the process of the demarcation of our border with Kosovo. Also with regard to Kosovo, I would like to emphasize the fact that any decision on its future status must not result in the destabilization of the region. The Republic of Macedonia is going through a critical stage in the process of carrying out fundamental economic and social reforms and transforming its society to prepare it for accelerated integration into the European Union. The finalization of the implementation of the framework agreement concluded in 2001 is a priority in that process. Most of the legal regulations resulting from the constitutional changes flowing from the framework agreement have already been adopted. Nevertheless, one of the main issues pertaining to decentralization — namely, territorial reorganization — could pose a challenge, given the upcoming referendum. That referendum is a democratic event of the highest order that provides citizens with an opportunity to express their opinions on the concept being put forth by the Government. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that the world is facing a range of challenges and threats, but that our experience so far has proven that there is no alternative to the multilateral approach to overcoming threats to international peace and security. Our experience has also proven that dialogue remains the most valuable and powerful instrument in our endeavours to create a different and safer world.The General Assembly, this most democratic and representative of United Nations organs, has served for almost six decades now as a forum in which all States, no matter their size or status, may address with equal voice issues of interest and concern to them as well as to the international community. It has indeed become the parliament of humankind. To the President of the General Assembly, a distinguished son of Africa, now falls the task of guiding the deliberations of this fifty-ninth session. I would like to offer him my delegation’s warm congratulations and good wishes as he assumes his high responsibilities. I would like to extend to the outgoing President, The Honourable Julian Hunte, our appreciation and thanks for his magisterial direction of the Assembly’s activities over the past year. His performance is a source of pride and satisfaction, not only to his native Saint Lucia, but also to the wider Caribbean community, to which both our countries belong. Allow me also to convey to the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, our gratitude for his sure and steady leadership of the Organization during these tumultuous times. The speakers who have preceded me in the debate have all expressed their preoccupation at the rising level of threat to global peace and security, as well as to our common economic and social security. Intense conflict in places such as Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere in the Middle East, Africa and Europe has destroyed thousands of innocent lives and wreaked havoc on the States involved. At the same time, despite the many promises of globalization, development continues to elude the majority of countries, especially the poorest and most vulnerable. The HIV/AIDS pandemic has not abated, continuously robbing us of precious human and financial resources. Altogether, the international scenario facing us is distressing, offering scant hope for early improvement. Like others, therefore, my delegation cannot help but state its concern at the ever-worsening international climate. While most of our problems are man-made, many of our States, such as those in the Caribbean, must also face the constant threat of natural disasters. The recent wave of hurricanes that destroyed our sister State of Grenada and severely battered other island countries, such as Haiti, the Bahamas, Cuba, the Cayman Islands, the Dominican Republic and Jamaica, has shown how destructive the forces of nature can be to our development. The Government of Guyana extends its solidarity and support to all those afflicted, as well as to the United States of America, whose state of Florida has also been seriously struck. Such is the frequency of these phenomena that the international community must now seek to devise stronger and more responsive machinery to address their consequences. In this regard, Guyana attaches high importance to the outcome, next January, of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, which will be held in Mauritius, and the World Conference on Disaster Reduction, in Kobe, Japan. The scourge of terrorism has now reached such a scale that it has been aptly described as a third world war. Scarce resources must now be diverted from development to the war on terror. Yet the rampage of destruction continues unrestrained. The process under way to stem the illicit global trade in small arms and light weapons and to forge more effective international instruments against terrorism and transnational crime commands Guyana’s full support. We anxiously await the report of the United Nations High-level Panel on 7 Threats, Challenges and Change, in the hope that it will offer practical recommendations for preserving global peace and stability. The time may have come, we believe, to fully implement the collective security system that is envisaged in the United Nations Charter. The age of globalization and liberalization in which we now live has undoubtedly brought with it laissez-faire attitudes and policies that have seriously affected societies everywhere. Lawlessness and violence are the new order of the day, threatening to destroy established systems of governance, especially in weak States, as demonstrated by the recent interruption of the democratic process in Haiti, the newest member of our Caribbean Community (CARICOM), which has exacerbated social conditions in that country. The Inter-American Democratic Charter and, indeed, our own Charter of Civil Society for the Caribbean Community expressly condemn such breaches of democracy. Notwithstanding our concern at these developments, Guyana stands ready to help the fraternal people of Haiti overcome their social distress. CARICOM, of which both Guyana and Haiti are members, is currently coordinating our humanitarian assistance to the island. Respect for the fundamental tenets of the United Nations is essential if we are to avoid conflicts. The Charter is clear in its proscription of the use of force except under the particular circumstances of Chapter VII. In this context, let me say that Guyana supports the reform of the Security Council through an expansion in the membership of both the permanent and non-permanent categories and a general improvement of its modus operandi. After careful deliberation and in an attempt to break the current logjam in the discussions, my Government has decided at this stage to support the aspirations of Brazil, India and an African State to permanent membership. We believe that their participation as developing States in the work of the Council will make that body more balanced, representative and, ultimately, more accountable to the Assembly for the maintenance of global peace and security. For Guyana, as for the rest of the international community, the situation in Iraq continues to be a source of preoccupation. We would wish to see peace and stability quickly restored to that country and its people. Similarly, we urge an end to the suicidal conflict between Israel and Palestine and a return to negotiations leading to the creation of an independent Palestine and peaceful co-existence between the two States. As conflicts and humanitarian crises such as the one in Darfur continue to multiply, the United Nations is being called to do more with less. We therefore call for the strengthening of regional arrangements, such as those of the Organization of American States and the African Union, acting in concert with the United Nations, to assist in the search for durable solutions to conflicts and disputes. It is also imperative that we strive with greater determination to secure our economic development and social progress. For more than six decades now, the international community has diligently sought answers to the development dilemma, moving from one facet to another, from disarmament to basic needs, from economic growth to full employment, from partnership to national ownership and from good governance to the free market. Thus far, however, the various models of development followed have failed to achieve their goals. In the continuing exploration, this year’s Human Development Report has added culture to the list of crucial elements. As a small, multi-ethnic State, Guyana fully accepts this proposition and is committed to preserving the culture that has brought our nation together in service to our national development. At the same time, we believe that cultural diversity is a contemporary reality and must be recognized by all States. Too often, strategies for peace and development ignore this reality with disastrous results. Not enough consultation and coordination are undertaken to ensure that programmes and projects are in keeping with nationally defined priorities and local circumstances. It is necessary, if failure is to be avoided, for there to be greater dialogue and cooperation in the planning process for development. National leadership remains a sine qua non for successful development and must be strongly supported by our development partners. In this spirit, Guyana renews its support for the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and other such initiatives based on strong national leadership and full international cooperation. President Lula of Brazil and the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization are to be commended for calling this Assembly’s attention to two major challenges facing the international community today, namely, poverty and 8 the inequities of globalization. Although we daily see on our television screens the emaciated faces of the hungry, we are yet to be stirred with the compassion and generosity of heart needed to relieve their misery. As globalization gains further ground, many more will fall victim to further marginalization, especially in small developing countries that are unable to take advantage of globalization. My own country has recently seen a devastating blow to its sugar industry, on which thousands of our people depend, as a result of trade liberalization and the reform of the European Union’s sugar regime. Unless small States like ours are provided with special and differential treatment, they will be excluded from the global economy. Next year, the world’s leaders will meet to review the progress made in achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). All the indications are that there is hardly enough time to achieve our objectives. We can therefore ill afford to stand still. We must determine now what ought to be done to build and sustain momentum to meet the 2015 targets. Guyana’s experience has been that these are not likely to be achieved without sustained economic growth. Although we have sound poverty reduction and national development strategies in place, we know that success depends in fair measure on a fair and supportive international environment. We therefore urge that high priority be accorded to greater debt relief, the mobilization of development finance and the creation of equitable trading conditions to enable developing countries such as ours to achieve economic and social progress. It must be realized, however, that the MDGs, although important and laudable, will not in themselves bring about comprehensive and sustainable development. They are but a subset of the development agenda, which must include, if it is to be successful, political, economic, social and environmental considerations. Without a holistic and well-coordinated approach, lasting solutions to our problems will not be found. It is for that reason that my Government continues to advocate the establishment of a new global human order based on genuine interdependence and partnership between developed and developing countries. We are at a point in time when terror, war, poverty and social chaos threaten to engulf all humanity. We therefore hope that when the relevant item comes before the Assembly next month, it will receive the further support of the international community. Within recent years the United Nations has faced mounting criticism for its lack of responsiveness to global challenges and for its failure to be democratic in some of its decision-making. While there is often a rush to act on particular issues that are deemed important by some countries, much less attention is paid to the concerns of the vast majority. As a consequence, the credibility and even the legitimacy of the United Nations have been called into question. If that trend continues, the hard-earned prestige of the Organization will be debased and its effectiveness curtailed. There can be no worse danger to humanity than the rejection of multilateralism. We believe experience has now clearly shown that unilateralism cannot resolve the problems of our contemporary world. Only through joint endeavours can we hope to achieve the freedom from fear and the freedom from want to which all our peoples aspire. As has been so aptly said, the United Nations may not take us to heaven but it can certainly save us from hell. Let us therefore renew our commitment to the high purposes and principles for which it stands.The fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly coincides with the twenty-fifth anniversary of the independence of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The last quarter of a century has presented a mighty challenge for the people of my country: to develop in a world increasingly indifferent to the particular problems of small, poor, developing States. But it is a challenge that the citizens of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines have embraced with courage, fortitude and hope — 9 never doubting our ability to survive, thrive and ultimately prosper as we contribute to the uplifting of our unique, independent, distinctive and noble Caribbean civilization. Our country has made progress thus far, but much more remains to be done. We look forward to succeeding in our quest for self-mastery. I would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your assumption of the presidency of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. We are confident that you will perform your duties with dignity and skill. Let me just say that you have a hard act to follow. Your predecessor, our Mr. Julian Hunte, is a distinguished son of the Caribbean who hails from our sister island, Saint Lucia. He made us proud in his role as President of the General Assembly. The peoples of the Caribbean and the southern United States are still traumatized by the devastation caused by hurricanes this season. Jamaica, the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands, Haiti, Cuba and other Caribbean countries, including my own, have been severely affected. But our nearest neighbour, Grenada, has suffered cataclysmic destruction and is now in a state of national crisis. We offer our profound condolences to the families and loved ones of those who have died in the hurricanes. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and other Caribbean nations have reached out a helping hand to Grenada, but the magnitude of the devastation in that country on 7 September is beyond the capacity of the Caribbean to address satisfactorily by itself. Indeed, Grenada has become an international responsibility. I therefore reiterate the call of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) for the urgent convening of an international donors’ conference to address the matter of Grenada’s utter devastation and its reconstruction. Simply put, Grenada has moved from the status of a middle-income developing country with a modern, sophisticated society and well run, democratic State machinery to a devastated land in a matter of three hours of pounding from hurricane Ivan. Today in Grenada there is no functioning economy and a highly traumatized civil society. Arising from all that is a strategic issue in our quest to turn Grenada’s setback into a regional advance for a more profound and meaningful Caribbean integration. Hurricane Ivan has spoken eloquently to the fact that nature has made our region one. History has further moulded us as one people who were drawn originally from diverse lands and cultures. Yet we in the Caribbean continue to buck, rather than accommodate ourselves appropriately to, both nature and history. That is a sort of vanity that we can ill-afford. It is tragic that it takes a catastrophe of this nature to hammer home the point that the small island developing States have been making for some time, namely, that there is a need for special and differential treatment because of, among other things, our vulnerability to natural disasters. I repeat, without exaggeration, that Hurricane Ivan, in a few short hours, reduced Grenada to rubble and, at a stroke, undid the hard work and achievements of its people since independence in 1974. We in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines feel their pain and know that, but for the grace of God and the vagaries of nature, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines would have suffered the same fate. Accordingly, the crisis in Grenada, occasioned by nature, prompts Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to give the highest priority to the international conference to be held in Mauritius in January of next year, when the specific and distinct problems of small island developing States will be highlighted. We will be stressing the need for the international community to take urgent action on the problem of global warming and climate change, which, if left unchecked, could lead to a global human and economic calamity in this century. The international community must become focused on the avoidance of that threatened apocalypse. Since we met here last year, the Caribbean Community has faced another crisis in our region — this time, a political one — as one of our member States, Haiti, descended into chaos, violence and anarchy. We saw an elected head of State removed in circumstances that bring no credit to our hemisphere. We remain deeply troubled by the controversial interruption of the democratic process that took place in the early hours of the morning of 28 February this year in Port-au-Prince. It is worth remembering that CARICOM States were instrumental in preparing a plan of Action for Haiti to ensure that the Constitution of that country was respected and to create the basis for a mobilization of resources to avert a humanitarian disaster. On 25 February 2004, CARICOM was successful in having the matter raised at a meeting of the Security Council. On that occasion, we went to the Council armed with a draft resolution. We pleaded for the 10 international community to respond to the rapidly deteriorating situation in Haiti. The draft resolution presented by CARICOM to the Security Council was noted but politely ignored. The rest is history. The Government and people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines are anxious to help the Haitian people in the sorry plight in which they currently find themselves. But before engaging politically with the so-called interim Government of Haiti, we must see, among other things, unequivocal evidence on the ground of advances in democracy and freedom and credible guarantees of free and fair elections within a reasonable time. A regime that tries an indicted murderer at midnight, one who was hailed by the very regime as a liberator, and then frees him before the first cock crows, has failed the most elemental tests of justice, freedom and democracy. The death and destruction occasioned by Hurricane Jean in Haiti demand our humanitarian assistance, not our political engagement with the Haitian regime. The dire situation in the Darfur region of Sudan has caused great distress to the Government and people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. My own personal grief prompted me to write letters in May of this year to several world leaders, including Secretary-General Kofi Annan, offering the slender resources of my country to assist in whatever small way we could to alleviate the suffering of the afflicted Sudanese people. Most of those I addressed responded positively. It is true that — thanks in large measure to the diligence of various journalists and the news media — this tragedy has now been brought forcefully to international attention. But the question we must nevertheless ask ourselves is this: has the international community reacted in an appropriate way to this calamity, or have we merely engaged in the usual perfunctory and routine denunciations? The images and reports coming out of Darfur are a chilling reminder of man’s inhumanity to man and a haunting condemnation of those who can truly help but who stand by idly or downplay this humanitarian disaster callously. In that regard, the Government of Sudan must shoulder its responsibility to its citizens and to humanity. Three months have gone by since I wrote to the Secretary-General, and this massive human tragedy continues to unfold before our appalled eyes. I suggest that we cannot allow the bloodbath to continue. We must save those who can still be saved in what have become the killing fields of Africa. The genocide of yesterday in Rwanda stands as a monument of shame to the international community. As an international community we must today take the shame out of our eyes in Darfur with urgent practical measures. A similar effort is required to address the harsh conditions of life of other peoples, including the heroic nation of Palestine, whose humanity is being daily assailed by outside forces. I would like to express, on behalf of the people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, our deepest sympathy to the Government and people of the Russian Federation on the tragic and inexplicable events in Beslan on 3 September. A tragedy of that magnitude, and especially the slaughter of so many innocent children, cannot fail to cause heartfelt sorrow. Since 11 September 2001, the fight against international terrorism has intensified on all fronts. It is right and proper that rich and poor countries be engaged in the ongoing war on the barbarism of terror. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is a reliable partner in the global struggle against the evil of terrorism. Still, it is necessary for me to point out that the cost of being a reliable participant in that war is a heavy burden on the meagre resources of developing countries like Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Our international obligations and circumstances necessarily pull us into that war, which we did not occasion or initiate. Yet we bear that imposed burden with equanimity and pain. This body, however, must be reminded yet again that there is another terrorism that we must fight relentlessly. It is the terrorism of war, poverty, illiteracy and disease, including HIV/AIDS. We must never forget, either, that daily hunger for 1 billion persons worldwide is truly a weapon of mass destruction. Together we must fight that terrorism too. Developed countries cannot allow trade regimes and market conditions to further impoverish the poor, as has been the case with banana farmers in the Caribbean, and still trumpet that they are helping the poor. The case for a judicious and balanced reform of the United Nations to better reflect the reality of the twenty-first century is unanswerably strong. We must redouble our collective efforts to persuade those who fear, unreasonably, the consequences of a just reform. We must not permit entrenched power to defeat right reason. Since Saint Vincent and the Grenadines became an independent State, it has had unbroken diplomatic 11 relations with the Republic of China on Taiwan. We see that country of liberty and democracy as a most important component of the magnificent Chinese civilization. Taiwan has the world’s seventeenth largest economy and the fifteenth largest trading volume internationally, and is third in the global ranking of the extent of foreign exchange reserves held. Taiwan’s 23 million people ought properly to be represented in this universal body by the Government of their choice. It is a mistake to continue to deny Taiwan international membership of organizations. The relations between Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Taiwan have been exemplary. Our friendship demands that we plead their just cause. I conclude with these observations. Some States boast ownership of boundless territory, vast natural resources and potent firepower; but none of those factors by themselves, or a combination of all three, guarantee peace or prosperity. In some other States poverty, hunger conflict and disease are the norm. If, instead of investing in war — knowing its certain side effect of the waste of young, innocent lives — nations cooperated with each other, striving for ways to solve problems common to all, it is just possible that the world we bequeath to our children will be more peaceful and richer in the ways that matter and boasting cleaner air and a healthier environment. Internationally, and in our own countries, let us emphasize the power of love rather than the love of power. Let us extol not the rightness of power but the righteousness contained in our human condition.I am pleased, Sir, to congratulate you and your friendly country, Gabon, on your well-deserved election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. We remain convinced that your great skills and rich experience guarantee the success of our work. I would also like to thank your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, who so ably guided the work of the previous session. I should like also to express my sincere congratulations to Secretary-General Kofi Annan and to his entire team, on the immense efforts they have exerted to achieve the noble ideals of our Organization. Allow me to express our deep satisfaction at the activities undertaken since the last Assembly session, notably the high-level segment of the Economic and Social Council, held in New York in June, on the theme of “Resources mobilization and enabling environment for poverty eradication in the context of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010”. My country had the privilege of hosting the preparatory meeting for our subregion last April, bringing together government sectors and international partners, as well as regional civil society organizations. We hail the efforts to define priorities and the measures needed to implement the recommendations of the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development, the decisions taken at the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development and the Millennium Development Goals. I should note here that those Goals will be reached only if the Group of Eight and the other industrialized countries pursue their joint efforts to provide greater support and assistance to developing countries. In this regard, I would also like to reaffirm my country’s support for the New York Declaration on the Action Against Hunger and Poverty. The achievement of the Development Goals and ensuring security and stability are closely linked to how we address the problem of violence and terrorism. Terrorism is a global problem, and its solution must also be global. The fight must be based on an intellectual and cultural vision of the complementarity of civilizations and on an absolute rejection of confrontation between countries. It is important also to note the unjust disparity in the level of development between rich and poor countries, because poverty and social, scientific, technological underdevelopment are among the main causes of tension, violence and extremism. The growth of terrorism, and its resulting fear and destruction, obliges the international community to engage in closer dialogue, increased coordination and a concerted effort to face the dangers that threaten all humankind. My country, Mauritania, firmly condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including the taking and killing of hostages, and we reaffirm our commitment to combat that phenomenon, which is alien to our society and to our sacred Islamic values, which reject violence and extremism and which call for dialogue, understanding, tolerance and the acceptance of others. It is clear that the repeated failure of the international community to fulfil its commitments with regard to the establishment of a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Middle East and the establishment of an independent Palestinian State living side by side with Israel, remains the main cause of insecurity and instability in the region and of the growth of the extremism and violence from which we all are suffering. That is why it is high time that the international community — represented by the Security Council, the General Assembly and all relevant regional and 9 international actors, including the Quartet — work together to bring about peace and stability in the Middle East, which, together with the rest of the world, has suffered for so long from the destructive effects of war. It is high time that we implement the Arab peace initiative, under which the Arab States guarantee comprehensive peace and the promise of normal relations to Israel in exchange for a complete withdrawal from all Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese territories up to the borders of 4 June 1967, the establishment of an independent Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as its capital, and a just, consensual resolution of the refugee issue. Clearly, there is no way to achieve that noble goal except to carry out the peace process and to resume the negotiations on all tracks, in keeping with the Madrid terms of reference, the principle of land for peace, the road map and the relevant provisions of international law. We are following with interest the development of the situation in Iraq, and we reaffirm our commitment to the unity, territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Iraq and to non- interference in its internal affairs. My country also reaffirms its support for the brotherly Iraqi people, its Interim National Council and its Interim Government in their efforts to overcome the difficulties hampering their aspirations to security, stability and the establishment of State institutions. We are also following with interest the development of the situation in Darfur. We welcome the commendable efforts of the Sudanese Government, in cooperation with the African Union, the League of Arab States and the United Nations, with a view to resolving the humanitarian, security and political aspects of the crisis. We call upon all regional and international actors to support those efforts and to accord to the Sudanese Government the time it needs to honour its commitments without threats of armed intervention, the imposition of sanctions or any tendentious propaganda aimed at giving the Darfur problem an ethnic or sectarian dimension. In that regard, I welcome the positive results achieved following the peace negotiations held at Abuja and N’Djamena, sponsored by the African Union. I encourage all the parties to continue the dialogue and the negotiation process, since that is the only way to resolve the crisis. I now turn to Western Sahara. Mauritania supports the efforts undertaken by the United Nations and its Secretary-General to arrive at a definitive settlement that brings stability to the region and enjoys the agreement of all the parties. My country is strongly committed to contributing to relations of cooperation and solidarity within the framework of our integrated regional affiliations. We are deeply convinced of the need for the Arab Maghreb Union, which remains an indispensable strategic option and an ambitious project aimed at enabling the peoples of the region to achieve greater complementarity and solidarity. My country seeks to deepen dialogue, understanding and cultural contacts among civilizations through the five-plus-five approach and the Barcelona approach. At the level of the African continent, we commend the solidarity and complementarity within the framework of the organization on the use of the Senegal River and the brotherly and friendly bilateral relations with West African countries. My country also welcomes the decisions taken recently by the institutions and organs of the African Union, particularly the formation of an African Parliament and a Peace and Security Council, which will constitute a framework that will enable us to transcend all current difficulties. At the international level, Mauritania reaffirms its support for the People’s Republic of China as the sole and legal representative of the Chinese people. In that regard, we appreciate the efforts of the Chinese Government aimed at achieving its reunification by peaceful means. My country has the honour to preside over the current session of the League of Arab States at the level of Ministers for Foreign Affairs. I should like to stress that the Arab Summit reaffirmed at Tunis the resolve of all Arab States to pursue the reform process by deepening democracy, expanding political participation and promoting respect for human rights, the advancement of women and the understanding that such reform must be progressive, gradual and adapted to social and cultural traditions specific to the States of the region, not imposed from outside. Mauritania is pursuing its efforts in that direction under the leadership of the President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Maaouya Ould Sid’Ahmed Taya, and continues to work to establish the rule of law, good 10 governance and pluralistic democracy that promotes human rights, freedom of expression, and personal and general freedoms. At the socio-economic level, we have adopted significant new laws, such as those dealing with labour and trafficking in persons and the introduction of broad reforms that would enable us to make progress in modernizing public administration to improve its performance, liberalizing private enterprise, promoting investment and providing basic services for our citizens, such as education, health and potable water. The Charter of the United Nations reflects the common aspiration of the world’s peoples to attain their fundamental development objectives and to ensure international peace and security. Clearly, the sweeping changes now taking place in the international arena call for the reform of United Nations structures with a view to expanding representation on the Security Council, thereby opening it up to key regions, such as Africa and Latin America, as well as significant groups, such as the Group of Arab States, and important industrialized countries that provide substantial contributions to the Organization, such as Germany and Japan, in order to respond to the new changes taking place and to enable the Council, thus restructured, to better reflect the realities and diversity of today’s world. We sincerely hope to see the international community work together to consolidate international solidarity in order to establish a new, just and more equitable world order that safeguards peace and security and provides a life of freedom and dignity for everyone.When we met here in the General Assembly last year, it was against the backdrop of the terrible and devastating attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. This year we are meeting after a number of terrorist attacks, most recently the gruesome terrorist attack on children on their very first day of school in Beslan, Russia. Terrorism is not a new threat. But the scale and brutality of recent terrorist operations have altered our lives and our thinking and forced us to take new measures to protect ourselves against this threat. Terrorism can strike anywhere and at any time. Terrorism is a threat to our security; it creates fear and want, and severely hampers economic and social development. No cause, however legitimate, can justify acts of terrorism. The fight against terrorism must continue to be a top priority for the United Nations and the world community. We must act in accordance with international law and human rights. Democratic values and the rule of law are our strongest cards in the fight against terror. We, the Members of the United Nations, have a responsibility to make the Organization robust enough to address the many tasks we have assigned it. The challenges are many. Unified efforts are needed to bring peace and stability to Iraq. Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) stresses that the international community must help the new Iraqi Government in its current effort to create a better future. However, functional national democracies and constitutional institutions are not created by United Nations resolutions. In Iraq, they can be created only by the Iraqis themselves. The international community and the United Nations can, and should, facilitate and assist in this process, provided that the necessary security is ensured. Our Government fully supports the efforts of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Ashraf Qazi, and his team of dedicated women and men. Afghanistan is at a critical juncture. More than 1,000 people, both Afghans and internationals, have been killed there so far this year. Reconstruction efforts and efforts to provide humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable are being hampered. Development activities are key elements in ensuring stability and security. Without security there will be no progress, and without progress there will be no security. There is a continued need for international security forces. The political process leading to elections is another essential requirement for stability. The United Nations must continue to play an important role. 22 While the world is waiting for a political solution to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, the situation continues to worsen. The construction of the separation barrier and the expansion of settlements are serious threats to the two-State solution. The Israeli plan to withdraw from Gaza and four settlements in the West Bank could be a step in the right direction if it is implemented in accordance with the road map and Security Council resolutions, and in keeping with the vision of a two-State solution. A viable and well-functioning Palestinian Authority is critical to a peaceful solution to the conflict. The Palestinian leaders themselves must contribute by implementing reforms as set out in the road map. The Palestinian Authority has a clear responsibility to fight Palestinian terrorism. In my capacity as Chairman of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee for Assistance to the Palestinian People, I am encouraged by the many statements that I have heard to the effect that the international community stands ready to assist in the implementation of the planned withdrawal. However, key issues must be addressed. Most importantly, withdrawal from Gaza must be carried out in a way that is conducive to the normalization of the Palestinian economy. Norway, together with other partners in the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee, will host a donor conference before the end of the year. I appeal to the States Members of the United Nations to support the Palestinian Authority. In Darfur we are facing another crisis, which is first and foremost a question of the safety and security of the civilian population, humanitarian access and the provision of food, medicine and shelter. The concern of the international community was expressed in Security Council resolution 1564 (2004), adopted on Saturday. All armed groups must cease the violence. The Norwegian Government expects the Sudanese authorities to fully comply with Security Council resolutions. The Darfur crisis makes it even more important to continue the Naivasha peace process. A comprehensive peace agreement for southern Sudan will lay the foundation for a national solution to the political issues in Darfur. We welcome the decision to resume the talks between the Government of the Sudan and the Sudan People’s Liberation Army in Kenya. We urge them to work without delay to conclude a comprehensive peace agreement. Targeting humanitarian personnel in conflict areas is absolutely unacceptable. Such acts of violence constitute grave breaches of international humanitarian law. We are being forced to rethink our approach to security. It is important, however, to avoid a situation where overly strict security measures prevent the United Nations from acting effectively on the ground. Such rules might further distance the civilian population and therefore result in a loss of legitimacy and local support. Providing security for United Nations personnel is not without costs. When we ask the United Nations to carry out difficult tasks in unsafe environments, we must also be willing to cover the expenses involved. We look forward to the Secretary-General’s recommendations on the basis of the report of the High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. That report will come at a crucial point in time for the United Nations. The United Nations needs to take earlier and more coordinated action as threats to peace and security emerge. Such action also needs to be sustained in a coordinated and effective fashion. We agree that our collective security system needs reform. Such reform must include, among other issues, the sensitive question of Security Council enlargement. We hope that a broad set of concrete recommendations by the High-level Panel will enable us to agree on measures to better meet current and new threats and challenges. The Panel should take care to ensure that both hard and soft security issues are addressed, as well as the linkages between them. Member States have the responsibility to ensure that the Secretary-General’s recommendations, based on the report of the Panel, are actively followed up. The resolution of armed conflicts is not solely the province of the United Nations. Regional organizations also have significant contributions to make — and their capacities should be strengthened. The United Nations is indispensable in delivering legitimacy. Regional organizations, with their local knowledge, are well placed to meet challenges on the ground. Yet the institutional mechanisms for ensuring effective partnership and real burden-sharing between the United Nations and regional organizations are not in place. This situation must be rectified. 23 A case in point is the involvement of the African Union (AU) in Sudan. Norway welcomes the response to the Darfur crisis by the AU and its member States. The AU mission must be enhanced both by becoming more pro-active and by increasing the number of participants. Norway has supported the AU and the United Nations in providing security and humanitarian relief in Darfur. We stand ready to continue to support those efforts. I believe that strengthening Africa’s capacity for peacekeeping and peace-building is essential if we are to deal with the challenges that United Nations peacekeeping is facing. For nearly ten years, Norway has contributed to peacekeeping through our Training for Peace in Southern Africa Programme. We plan to expand that programme to West Africa. It is uplifting to see the progress being made in many African countries. We applaud the basic principles and political priorities being addressed by the New Partnership for Africa’s Development and welcome last week’s inauguration of the Pan-African Parliament. This strengthening of the political dimension of regional cooperation testifies to the dedication of African leaders and holds promise of an even more active and efficient role for the AU in the years to come. Without economic growth there will be no improvement in welfare and wealth distribution, and little hope of peace and security. International trade may be an important engine for creating growth and welfare. However, this will not happen by itself. A sound basis for growth and welfare that benefits all countries can be created only by means of fair trade rules developed through international cooperation. In this respect, the World Trade Organization framework agreement reached in Geneva in July is a milestone. We avoided any deadlock or setback, and now we can renew our efforts to achieve substantial progress on the Doha Development Agenda. I noted that in his speech, President Lula da Silva said that “If successful, the Doha Round could lift more than 500 million people out of poverty”. This certainly shows the opportunities of globalization. However, ensuring that economic growth actually improves the livelihoods of ordinary people requires adequate domestic policies. In an ever more globalized world, we need forums to develop the international guidelines necessary to facilitate cooperation. However, we all need to do our part. It has been 10 years since the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change entered into force. More than 120 countries have ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and we are now awaiting the ratification that will allow it to enter into force. I welcome the news that Russia is seriously considering the ratification of the Protocol, but I regret that some countries have not yet been willing to join forces in facing one of the most serious global challenges of our time. Fulfilling the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol is a first step towards coming to grips with the challenge of climate change. The entire international community, and notably the largest emitters, must make a much more ambitious commitment in this field; we have no time to lose. In the Arctic region we are already experiencing the effects of climate change as seen in a temperature rise that is substantially greater than the global average. Next year we will take stock of developments since the Millennium Declaration was adopted. This is an opportunity to review progress and, where necessary, intensify efforts to fulfil our commitment to reducing poverty and achieving development. True gender equality and education for all stand out as crucial in this regard. The Summit in 2005 should also focus on international efforts to promote peace- building, reconciliation, global security and respect for human rights. We must take decisive steps during the next General Assembly to meet development targets and create a safer and more peaceful world. The United Nations is indispensable as our most universal and representative organization. Norway has devoted a great deal of effort to building the multilateral system. We are proud of our political and financial contributions to the United Nations system. We are eager to see the United Nations strengthened and reshaped, so that it can remain our most important instrument for addressing global challenges. Norway remains committed to supporting the United Nations in meeting those challenges.In view of time constraints, I shall share an abbreviated version of my speech. The full text is being distributed in the Hall. Please forgive me for skipping the usual formal greetings to all the deserving dignitaries. I first walked into this building in December 1975, in the midst of a North American winter, having never seen snow in my life, to appear before the Security Council. I learned then, and since, that not all United Nations resolutions are implemented. But I also learned that, in spite of its shortcomings and failings, the United Nations offers us hope and that we must cling to that hope, for it gives us the strength and the courage to continue. When the Secretary-General visited Timor-Leste in May 2002 to preside over the formal transfer of sovereignty to our elected President, I said to him: “Mr. Secretary-General, you are going to lose your job as President of Timor-Leste”. I can assure members that Kofi Annan did not seem too upset to be relinquishing that unpaid and difficult job. We thank him for his wise stewardship of Timor-Leste’s transition to independence. We cannot fail to pay tribute to our beloved friend, Sergio Vieira de Mello, who was brutally murdered in Iraq just over a year ago. Our people wept over his death, but Sergio will always live in us. His passage through Timor-Leste, his charisma, energy and smile will be with us forever. Our tribute goes also to all the United Nations personnel who lost their lives in our country and in many other difficult regions around the world. We offer our sincere condolences and solidarity to Russia, Spain, Indonesia and Australia — the latest victims in a seemingly endless catalogue of barbarity committed by fanatics. It was only a little over two years ago that Secretary-General Kofi Annan handed over power to our elected President. Since then, we have made real progress in several sectors, such as public administration, education and health. Yet, we are failing in other areas. The most fragile sector of the Administration in Timor-Leste is the judiciary. We have very few trained judges, prosecutors or lawyers. We are committed to creating a strong and independent judiciary, but that achievement is still many years off. We thank those countries that have assisted us in improving our judiciary and we implore them to continue their efforts for many years to come. Our economy is limping along, although it is doing much better than anticipated. We are confident that in two to three years we will experience strong economic growth as a result of revenues from oil and gas, as well as capital investment in public infrastructure, including roads, bridges, ports and airports, telecommunications, public housing, health, agriculture, fisheries and tourism. We should then be able to begin drastically reducing unemployment and poverty. Here we wish to congratulate the Indonesian people and their leaders for their great experiment in democracy. Few imagined in 1999 that within only a few years the fourth largest nation in the world — and the largest Muslim country — would emerge as a vibrant democracy. Talks are under way between Australia and Timor-Leste to rectify our differing interpretations of international law and State practice as regards maritime boundaries between coastal States. Timor-Leste shares the view of the majority of the international community that, where there are overlapping claims between two coastal States, the principle of equidistance should apply. Allow me now to address some issues that are of concern to us. In the past 20 years or so, our world has been the stage for several major conflicts, including the invasion of Iran by Saddam Hussein in the 1980s, which resulted in the death of over a million people. Chemical and biological weapons were unleashed on both civilians and combatants. Soon after the end of the Iraq-Iran war, the same regime in Baghdad launched another invasion, this time against the State of Kuwait. Most of us have now relegated the Cambodian tragedy of the 1970s to a footnote in our intellectual memory, but let us not forget the almost universal indifference of the international community 16 to the genocide unleashed by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia. Like many of you, and millions of peace marchers, we are opposed to violence and wars. But we must ask ourselves some troubling questions. Should we oppose the use of force even in the face of genocide and ethnic cleansing? In the eternal dilemma of war and peace there are pacifists and idealists who oppose the use of force under any circumstances and there are the realists who support the use of force under certain circumstances, namely, if it has been sanctioned by the Security Council. Those who are absolutely against the use of force have been unable to articulate a better strategy for dealing with the savagery of ethnic cleansing and genocide. Patient diplomacy lasts as long as it lasts; it might bear fruit, or it might not. Genocide, however, continues as we can see in the Sudan where thousands of our fellow human beings are dying right now. In the tragic case of Cambodia in the 1970s, the world knew that an evil regime was deliberately purging the nation and murdering hundreds of thousands of innocent human beings. Yet, the Security Council never even discussed the Khmer Rouge genocide. Around the same time as the Cambodian tragedy, genocide was taking place on the African continent, in Uganda. The Security Council neither debated nor took any action on the situation in Uganda under Idi Amin. It required the moral courage of a Julius Nyerere of the United Republic of Tanzania to put an end to Idi Amin’s genocidal rule. We would ask, if there had been a lone world leader with the moral courage to order his country’s armed forces to intervene in Rwanda in 1994, would he have been hailed as a saviour or vilified as an aggressor? In selectively recalling some of the most flagrant cases of our collective failure to prevent wars and genocide, our sole intention is to provoke reflection on the failings and weaknesses of the United Nations with a view to exploring ways of making our Organization a more effective custodian of world peace. Allow us to add some thoughts to the ongoing debate as to how we can realize an improved United Nations. We wish, however, to preface our views on United Nations reform by stating that we do not believe that a simple expansion of Security Council membership will suffice to strengthen the United Nations. It may make the Council more representative by better reflecting current global demographics and power-balances, but it will not necessarily make it more effective. That said, there is a clear need to expand membership in the Security Council for non-permanent and permanent members. Timor-Leste fully supports the Franco-German initiative on United Nations reforms. We also believe that the new expanded Security Council should include countries like Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan, Brazil and one or two from the African continent. But, to reassure you, I should add that Timor-Leste is not seeking a permanent seat in the Security Council for itself — please do not worry about that. We particularly support permanent membership status for Indonesia because we believe in the need for balanced representation within the Security Council, encompassing all the world’s major civilizations and faiths. Non-inclusion of Indonesia — the largest secular Muslim country in the world — as a new permanent member would again leave the Security Council with a predominantly Christian representation. Incidentally, my Government has already received requests for support for a seat in Council for as far ahead as 2020 and 2024. Moreover, on the basis of the two-year rotation arrangement, it seems that Timor-Leste, and many other small nations, will only be able to offer its services to the Security Council somewhere in 2049. Incidentally, we are very touched that many delegations have already expressed support for Timor-Leste for 2049. The world is faced with a growing AIDS pandemic, the epicentre of which is now shifting to Asia. Moreover, malaria and tuberculosis have been with us for many generations, yet there is no real commitment of resources that will enable our scientists and societies to address those epidemics. The combined official development assistance (ODA) of the rich industrialized countries does not exceed US$ 50 billion annually. Compare that with the more than US$ 300 billion those countries provide in subsidies to their farmers and industries. Weapons-producing countries are flooding the world with all types of arms that fuel conflicts. There must be a strict code of conduct on weapons exports aimed at reducing the flow of conventional weapons to poor countries and regions in conflict. 17 We in Timor-Leste do not wish to sound ungrateful, but we have reason to be sceptical about ODA that ends up back in the donor metropolis with only a fraction of that much-publicized aid benefiting the recipient country. There has to be a thorough reform of ODA with a view to ensuring that developing countries actually receive what is pledged. We wonder sometimes about the usefulness of the endless meetings, study trips, evaluations, feasibility studies and other activities, when, in reality, all the information required can be downloaded from the Internet by a 7-year-old child. Actually my 10-year-old niece, Sarah, does most of the Internet searches for me and instead of paying an international consultant something like $1,000 a day in consulting fees, she is happy with two scoops of chocolate ice cream. We join with the leaders of Brazil, Chile, France, Spain and others in urging the rich of the North to allocate 0.7 per cent of their national wealth to ODA, thus meeting the target set by the United Nations. It is perplexing that only four small rich countries have met and/or exceeded that modest target. Europe and the United States should gradually eliminate all agricultural subsidies to their farmers that kill competition and market access of poor countries. We understand the political difficulties faced by some friends in Europe and the United States when dealing with the issue of subsidies. Hence, we believe that developing countries, the European Union and the United States should be able to reach a reasonable compromise on this issue. We conclude our remarks with reference to some international situations. Regarding the ongoing conflict in Western Sahara, we endorse the comments made by His Excellency President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, a country that has contributed enormously to the liberation of the African continent. On this issue, our Government is guided by Algeria and the African Union. We appeal to our senior Asian leaders, in particular, China, India, Japan, Republic of Korea and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to redouble their efforts to find a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Myanmar. On the subject of sanctions, we wish to appeal to our friends in the United States Congress to rise above their parochial politics and lift all forms of sanctions on Cuba. There is deep-seated resentment and anger among Muslims and many non-Muslims around the world over Israel’s policies that thwart Palestinian right to a dignified existence and homeland. The two-State solution agreed upon by all sides has to be rapidly resurrected and implemented as a first step towards durable peace in the region. The Palestinian intifada and suicide-bombing, as well as the Israeli policy of annexation and retaliation, have deepened the anger and hatred. There has to be a way out. We hope that the United States, which initiated the war in Iraq and gallantly freed the Iraqi people from a tyrant, will go half-way and meet those on the other side of the debate. The United States and its allies should not shoulder the burden of Iraq alone. The Euro-Atlantic partnership is the single most important pillar of the world’s security and economic well-being. Americans and Europeans share the same values of democracy and freedom. Surely, they are wise enough to overcome their differences, however deep, and give the Iraqi people a chance to finally be free and at peace among themselves and with their neighbours. May God Almighty Bless You All.Allow me to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. May I assure you of India’s full support in ensuring its success. As we gather here in the sixtieth year since the United Nations was founded, we might perhaps pause to reflect on the fate of the ideas and ideals of the international community that inspired its creation. The post-war generation had already become aware that the world which had emerged from the ashes of a global war could no longer be a peaceful world unless the underlying forces of conflict were addressed effectively by the entire community of nations as a collectivity. Nations were therefore united to make the world a safer and more peaceful place — a world in which free peoples could pursue together a destiny of shared prosperity. The impulse behind the creation of global institutions nearly 60 years ago has become an even more pressing reality today. If we look around us, the single most defining characteristic of our contemporary world is the global, transnational character of the challenges we confront, whether these are in the realm of international security or in that of development. Virtually every major issue that we face as nation- States has both a domestic and a transnational dimension. It is becoming increasingly apparent as never before that, unless we fashion a global response to those challenges based on a meaningful consensus, we will not succeed in creating a world that truly manifests the ideals of the United Nations. Terrorism is one such challenge for which many of us have paid an unacceptable price. We shall not forget that, three years ago, it was this great city that witnessed the single most horrendous terrorist act in human history. Approximately three weeks ago, in Russia, the world saw another brutal act of terror which took the lives of hundreds of innocent civilians, including a large number of young children. Terrorism exploits the technologies spawned by globalization, recruits its foot soldiers on ideologies of bigotry and hatred, and directly targets democracies. And yet, it is a sad reality that international networks of terror appear to cooperate more effectively among themselves than the democratic nations that they target. We speak about cooperation, but we often seem hesitant to commit ourselves to a truly global offensive to root out terrorism with the pooling of resources, the exchanging of information, the sharing of intelligence and the unambiguous unity of purpose that is required. That must change. We do have a global coalition against terrorism; we must now give it substance and credibility, avoiding selective approaches and political expediency. I now turn to other challenges that we face today, such as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. There is an increasing reliance on restrictive regimes and on the use of punitive action to confront this threat to international peace and security. Although India is firmly opposed to proliferation and has an impeccable record in that respect, we believe that it is only a global consensus of willing nations that will ultimately prove to be truly effective in that regard. The Chemical Weapons Convention is a good model to follow with respect to other weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear weapons. It is through representative institutions, rather than through exclusive clubs of privileged countries, that we can address global threats posed by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. As far back as 1988, Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi outlined a series of specific steps in an action plan, whose central proposition remains valid even today — that progressive steps towards the elimination 14 of weapons of mass destruction must be based on a balance of obligations between those who possess such weapons and those who do not. It is quite evident today that a global discourse is required for evolving a more cooperative and consensual international security order. India believes that such consensus must differentiate between States whose actions strengthen non-proliferation and those that weaken the realization of its objectives. Let me now turn to the central theme for the vast majority of United Nations Members; the challenge of development and the eradication of mass poverty. Globalization has undoubtedly brought enhanced effectiveness and efficiency in the functioning of our economies. It has integrated marketplaces, higher standards of living and a revolution in global connectivity. But there is also the phenomenon of widening economic disparities, both within and among countries. Connectivity also means that the people are painfully aware — in real time — of how far and how fast they are falling behind in their relative living conditions. Development today is no longer a function of domestic resources and national policies alone. It is a process that is vitally linked to the international economic environment that the developing countries face. The international community must find ways to contract those circles of exclusion. We need to find innovative sources of financing and access to new technologies that are necessary to assist those who are on the margins of globalization. Just as prosperity cannot be sustained by being walled in, poverty cannot be banished to some invisible periphery. Development must therefore return to the centre of the global discourse. We must evolve equitable and rule-based regimes to manage global trade, investment flows and the movement of services. Four years ago, at our Millennium Summit, we adopted ambitious global development goals, but it is a matter of concern that we have already fallen behind in their implementation. While globalization has generated new challenges, it has also given us new technologies to deal with those massive challenges. The world faces ominous pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, but it today also possesses remedies and skills that can rid the world of that scourge. We face problems of environmental degradation in many parts of our planet, but we also have available safe and environment- friendly technologies. Many countries are beset by problems of hunger and malnutrition, but we possess modern techniques of food production and processing to make a hunger-free world a credible and realistic dream. Although our excessive dependence on hydrocarbons raises concerns about the long-term availability of energy and about the security of supplies, technology has made available many environmentally sound alternative technologies. What we lack, however, is a truly global agreement and a mobilization of the international community to overcome the massive challenges. The experience of the decades since the inception of the United Nations demonstrates the great significance of democracy as an instrument for achieving both peace and prosperity. While it is gratifying that the frontiers of democracy have expanded dramatically in the last decade and a half, they still exclude significant numbers. Only a few months ago, in India’s fourteenth general election, our country went through the largest exercise of popular will in the world. I can therefore assert with confidence, the importance that national articulations in global forums have in truly reflecting the democratically expressed will of their people. We choose to overlook the absence of democracy in too many cases for reasons of political expediency. Democracy’s representative nature validates the commitments we take on as countries; it should also determine the manner in which the architecture of international institutions evolves. What is required for the international community to successfully deal with global challenges — whether they be security challenges, economic challenges or challenges in the sphere of the environment — is the existence of international institutions and a culture of genuine multilateralism. The United Nations and its specialized agencies are the only instruments available for responding effectively to the challenges we face collectively. But what is missing is our sustained commitment to democratizing the functioning of the United Nations. It is common knowledge that the United Nations is often unable to exert an effective influence on global economic and political issues of critical importance. 15 That is due to what may be called its democracy deficit, which stands in the way of an effective multilateralism based on a democratically-evolved global consensus. Therefore, reform and restructuring of the United Nations system can alone provide a crucial link in an expanding chain of efforts to refashion international structures, imbuing them with a greater degree of participatory decision-making so as to make them more representative of contemporary realities. Our Millennium Declaration recognized the urgency of the reform of the United Nations Security Council. An overwhelming majority of the world’s population cannot be excluded from an institution that today legislates on an increasing number of issues, with an ever-widening impact. The expansion of the Security Council, in the categories of both permanent and non-permanent members, and the inclusion of countries like India as permanent Members would be a first step in the process of making the United Nations a truly representative body. I would like to make brief references to two countries with which India has had historically friendly ties and whose early return to political normalcy is the focus of the world’s attention. The situation in Iraq causes us great concern. The United Nations has a central role to play in erasing the discord of the recent past and in ensuring that the Iraqi people can soon exercise effective sovereignty, preserving the country’s unity and territorial integrity. An end to the suffering of the Iraqi people and recognition of their aspirations should be the guiding objectives. Consistent with our longstanding ties of friendship with the Iraqi people, India will contribute to Iraq’s humanitarian and economic reconstruction. In the past three years, the international community has assisted Afghanistan in pulling back from the brink of chaos and chronic instability. We sincerely hope that the upcoming presidential elections and the subsequent parliamentary elections will allow the Afghan people to express their will, free from interference and intimidation. India’s assistance to Afghanistan’s reconstruction and development will continue. Relations between India and Pakistan have been a matter of attention for the international community. It is known that in January this year India and Pakistan initiated a composite dialogue to resolve all issues, including that of Jammu and Kashmir. I reaffirm our determination to carry forward that dialogue to a purposeful and mutually acceptable conclusion. In closing, I would like to reaffirm India’s commitment to the principles that have brought us together in this Organization. Those principles retain their relevance and validity even while the global economy and the international political order pose new and very different challenges. All of us have to grow out of the comfort of the predictable, discard constraining habits of thought, and move forward with confidence to meet the demands of the present and the future. Each of us has to be prepared to take on new obligations and larger responsibilities relevant to the needs of our time. I deem it a privilege to say unhesitatingly that India is conscious of the responsibilities that lie ahead. I speak of an India on the move — on the cutting edge of economic, technological and developmental transformations. This is an India endowed with outstanding human resources, and we are putting in place policies which will respond to emerging and critical tasks. We have the capabilities and capacity to take these on, and to participate in the restructuring of a just and dynamic world order. We are confident that, in the inextricably interdependent world we live in, our commitment to the common good, which this Organization embodies, will be resolute and full. In this, we are inspired by the vision of internationalism bequeathed to us by India’s first Prime Minister, the great Jawaharlal Nehru — a vision of a world order whose pillars are peace, harmony, cooperation and development. That vision needs to reanimate the collective wisdom of the world community for a new partnership to meet the unprecedented challenges we face.Allow me at the outset to join others who have warmly congratulated you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session. I wish you every success in your important undertaking, which will enjoy the full support of the Romanian delegation. For some years now, this great worldwide gathering has opened in the wake of deadly terrorist attacks that require us to respond as one to voice strong condemnation of all terrorist acts and a commitment to contributing ever more energetically to the affirmation of effective multilateralism that will make global action increasingly effectual. In that context, I cannot fail briefly to address the issue of the struggle against terrorism, which is more urgent today than ever before. Since September 2001, the level of violence of acts of terrorism — perpetrated in the name of ideological, territorial, religious or ethnic differences and incompatibilities — has risen dramatically. At the same time, the very nature of terrorist acts has changed. The complexity and scale of such barbarism, claiming the lives of hundreds or even thousands of innocent victims — often children, as in the recent incident in Beslan — are indescribably grim and represent immense challenges. Yet another factor is at play in all this: the increase in the number of terrorist acts. In such conditions, the struggle against that scourge — whose implications are not only immediate, but also complex and global in nature — is an urgent and ongoing obligation for all States. Romania promptly and meaningfully joined the anti-terrorism campaign and has demonstrated its resolve to contribute to eradicating it. We believe, however, that the struggle to end terrorism must also address its underlying causes, including poverty, and must not be used as a pretext for flouting or violating human rights. If that were to occur, we would be playing into the hands of the perpetrators of terrorist acts, who not only seek loss of life and devastation, but strive above all to destroy symbols and values. On the other hand, promoting respect for human rights and democratic values is the only way to eliminate such manifestations of hatred and violence. The nature and, above all, the inherent dangers of the current international context make the development of cooperation among all kinds of international actors, 2 State and non-State alike, increasingly urgent. As an Organization that is universal by vocation and in legitimacy, the United Nations must fully assume its role as the driving force behind efforts to adapt to changes in the international environment. In an interdependent world, no single State is safe from such dangers or from threats to international peace and security, including terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the increasing number of States affected by instability, the growth of global disparities, humanitarian crises, ethnic wars and intra- State wars. Managing such risks requires a comprehensive and coherent approach on the part of the United Nations, including through the promotion of preventive political and diplomatic measures, such as the strengthening of international treaties and conventions on combating terrorism and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; efforts to make international export control regimes and specialized international structures more effective; and, in extreme cases, recourse to coercive measures, in accordance with the United Nations Charter. Our Organization has one strong and complex tool at its disposal in meeting such challenges. I refer to the Security Council, in which Romania is striving to make a real contribution to the maintenance of international peace and security and the establishment of a world climate of stability, with particular emphasis on fighting terrorism, preventing conflicts and humanitarian crisis situations, maintaining the unity of Council members and supporting consensus solutions, and encouraging cooperation on stabilization between the United Nations and regional organizations. With respect to that last issue, I would note that Romania has been and continues to be interested in cooperation between the global Organization and the regional and subregional pillars. Given the current international context, that is of major importance. (spoke in English) The need to speed up the reform of the United Nations is more urgent than ever. The series of challenges, more or less new, that the Organization has to face in the twenty-first century make its reform a priority if its structures and working methods are to adapt to the present realities. The terms of reference continue to be efficiency, adaptability and progress. Romania looks forward to the recommendations of the Secretary-General on the report of the eminent persons so that we may embrace, together with other States, a collective effort that cannot afford delay. We hope that the sixtieth anniversary of the Organization’s establishment will mark significant progress in the process of adapting the United Nations to the new challenges, and especially the Security Council, the essential body in the management of world peace and stability. Our relation to that organ, as a non-permanent member, increases our conviction that a new configuration, closely reflecting current realities by increasing the number of permanent and non- permanent seats, will consolidate the representative profile of the Security Council and thus its authority and efficiency. I cannot ignore another aspect of our contemporary world. Both a source of challenges and a most generous framework for opportunities, the phenomenon of globalization is unavoidable and affects us all. Given its nature, the United Nations is ideally placed to manage the phenomenon, particularly by correcting its consequences. In that context, Romania fully embraces the Global Compact Initiative of our Secretary-General, which needs support and strengthening. All Member States must promote regional and transcontinental integration as vehicles and instruments of a harnessed globalization. In this case, the European Union stands as a success story, since it acts as a vector not only of economic integration, but also of democratic values and human rights. The United Nations has to try to find ways to adjust the rules of the world market in order to diminish, in the medium and long terms, the big gaps that exist between the rich countries and the poor. Another priority in our efforts to harness globalization is the need to enhance coordination among the specialized agencies and institutions of the United Nations system in their work to ensure the diffusion of information technology at a lower cost. We need to show more determination in our attempts to decrease the gaps in this field, and to guarantee the evolution of less developed countries from a state of marginalization to one catalysed by knowledge-based development. Allow me to turn now to another essential factor for a better future, one that Secretary-General Kofi Annan also underlined in his introductory speech — the rule of law. The validity of the principles of the 3 Charter of the United Nations have not only withstood the test of time, but they have also been reaffirmed by a whole new network of international agreements, mandatory standards and norms of action to which States have voluntarily acceded, mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of disputes and monitoring commitments. As a proof of our faith in the international law system, Romania appealed this year for the first time to the International Court of Justice — the main judicial body of the United Nations — to resolve a question of maritime delimitation. Romania also appealed to an international investigation commission to solve the case of an infrastructure works project with cross- border impact on the Bistroe Channel in the Danube Delta. Our appeal concerns the need for close collaboration in order to protect a unique and fragile place, a UNESCO world heritage site. Our efforts towards an effective multilateralism also involve us in other major issues on the United Nations agenda. Romania has promptly joined, and substantially contributed to, international efforts for the stabilization and reconstruction of Afghanistan and Iraq, in keeping with its long history of participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations and the provision of assistance in post-conflict phases. The global vocation and aspirations of my country are closely related to its European destiny. The focus of Romanian diplomacy is therefore oriented towards the democratic stabilization of our neighbouring region and its effective connection to a united Europe. For too long that region has been affected by wars and all kinds of tensions, often acute ones. Under such circumstances, Romania can only support, alongside all of Europe, a boost to democracy, economic development and a long-lasting stabilization of the countries in the region. At the same time, Romania is ready to contribute to the stability and development of all countries in the Black Sea region. We hope to turn this strategic area — with its close connections to other regions of immense potential, including the Mediterranean Basin, the Caucasus, Central Asia and the Middle East — into a cooperation and security zone. I cannot conclude without making a brief reference to another theme to which Romania attaches particular importance. My country strongly supports concerted action to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In an international context that is often volatile and defined by a growing complexity and increased interdependence, we cannot ignore the necessity for immediate action, using the means offered by our global Organization, in particular the Security Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 1540 (2004).It is a great honour for me today to address the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, on behalf of the Government of Leonel Fernández and of the people of the Dominican Republic, in this forum devoted to the maintenance of peace and the promotion of development and harmony among peoples. Once again, we are speaking out on the most delicate and important issues on the international agenda so that we can join forces in the search for viable solutions to the problems that affect us all. I extend my sincerest congratulations to you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. We are confident that you will steer our work along the path of peace and security for the good of mankind. We also underscore the important work accomplished by the outgoing President, Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia. The Dominican Republic has been struck by a force of nature that has left death and destruction in its wake in various parts of the country. The rain and the wind of Hurricane Jeanne had severe consequences for the eastern part of our country, destroying homes, means of communication, bridges, crops and tourist infrastructure, at a time when the Dominican Republic had been making increasing efforts to jumpstart its economy. We take this opportunity to express our thanks for the international community’s solidarity in these difficult times for the Dominican Republic. I would also like to express my deepest thanks to Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who has expressed solidarity with our country and with Haiti in the context of this natural disaster. The fact of globalization steadily deepens relations among our countries, challenging our capacity to take advantage of the opportunities that globalization offers, as well as our capacity to limit its negative impact. Together with the contradictory and complex processes of integration and disintegration, our countries still hope that the benefits of globalization will create conditions making it possible to overcome poverty and attain a good life. A tragic event that occurred in this city of New York on 11 September 2001 changed the destiny of humankind in a matter of minutes, and made the world increasingly dangerous and insecure. The promise of lasting peace presaged by the end of the cold war was destroyed by terrorist actions — actions which were condemned by all humankind and which have unleashed a steady escalation of violence that has turned the world into a place of uncertainty. We must spare no effort to rid humankind of the threat of terrorism. We condemn terrorist acts in all 14 their forms and manifestations, whatever their source and whomever may be affected, and want to underscore the importance of international cooperation in the fight against that scourge, which should always be prosecuted in strict compliance with international law, and, in particular, with human rights and international humanitarian law. The Dominican Republic is founded on an unconditional commitment to the norms and principles of international law, and particularly those that relate to the peaceful settlement of disputes, the condemnation of the use of force, compliance in good faith with international treaties and the implementation of the resolutions of the United Nations and its deliberative bodies, including the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Commission on Human Rights. We reaffirm the view to which countries committed themselves in May 2004 at the third Summit Conference of Heads of State and Government of Latin America and the Caribbean and of the European Union, as set out in paragraph 8 of the Declaration of Guadalajara: “[A]n effective multilateral system, based on international law, supported by strong international institutions and with the United Nations at its centre, is essential for achieving peace and international security, sustainable development and social progress.” However, in order to achieve those objectives we must streamline, modernize and reform the entire multilateral international system, a process that States must support through respect for and compliance with the resolutions adopted, without neglecting genuine and effective equitable regional participation. Multilateralism is one of the main pillars of the foreign policy of the Dominican Republic, as can be seen by our participation and cooperation in all international forums. For that reason, we join those nations that call for a thorough reform of the United Nations system, with a view to enhancing its democratization and making it a more effective instrument for States Members. That reform must be geared, first of all, towards strengthening the General Assembly, the most important body of the Organization, and the Security Council, in which there is unequal geographical representation. We reiterate yet again the suggestion that has been made for several years now: the Security Council should be expanded so that Asia, Africa and Latin America can have two permanent members, and the number of non-permanent seats should be increased in order to democraticize the decision-making mechanism of that forum for peace. Those reforms are necessary to make the multilateral system more agile and effective, so that it may more successfully confront global threats and challenges. I would like to echo the commitment undertaken by the heads of State or Government who met in Santo Domingo in August and adopted the Declaration of Santo Domingo 2004, in which we agreed that: “[t]he fight against poverty is essential to the consolidation of democracy. In that regard, it is necessary to formulate and implement public policies aimed at strengthening economic growth and an equitable distribution of national income and wealth.” As we are all aware, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has reported that the richest 20 per cent of Latin America’s population receives 54 per cent of national income, whereas the poorest 20 per cent of population receives only four per cent. This fact is an attack on governability. We want to underscore the importance of a meeting that was held at the United Nations last week — the gathering of world leaders in an alliance against hunger and poverty, which resulted in a serious commitment on the part of each and every one of our representatives here to fight unwaveringly and effectively to achieve the agreed objectives. For the Government of the Dominican Republic, the fight against corruption is a priority. We have shown this by implementing mechanisms to prevent and punish acts of corruption. That scourge has a grave impact on the economies of our countries. We all know that the main victims of corruption are the poor. We need, above all, to strengthen existing mechanisms, and to produce others if necessary, in order to wage a pitched battle against corruption and those who benefit from it, regardless of their origin or social class. We have taken this decision because we see that the rise in corruption in our region has jeopardized the governability of all of our countries. Governmental transparency and a greater participation of civil society are necessary to combat this evil. We wish to emphasize this morning the importance and effectiveness of the follow-up 15 mechanism for the implementation of the Inter- American Convention Against Corruption, and its Plan of Action adopted in Managua. Likewise, we ask that our countries not be used as safe havens for persons convicted of acts of corruption. We also advocate the return of those ill-gotten gains to the countries that have fallen victim to this evil, which, together with drug trafficking, has a negative impact on the stability of democracy and the enforcement of the rule of law. In recent years, Dominican Republic has made real progress in its struggle against trafficking in persons, where the most vulnerable populations are women and children, whether at the regional or international level. Through the establishment of national and international networks against trafficking in Dominican children and adolescents, and with the cooperation of the diplomatic foreign and consular services, we have made great strides in that area. We take this opportunity to emphasize the participation of the International Organization for Migration and its important support in this struggle. As for the struggle of countries against the manufacture and illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, our country is committed to assisting in the areas of investigation and the adoption of measures for strengthening global and regional cooperation in order to fight against this scourge. States must continue to make every effort to implement the Programme of Action adopted by the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. We also want to express our deep concern at the high level of kidnappings and crime in our countries — a level that increases year after year, thus worsening the sense of insecurity felt by persons of all social classes and races. The rise in crime is a threat to the security and safety of our citizens and to the democratic governability of all of our countries. Well- designed deterrence mechanisms based on zero tolerance, an efficient police force, and a strengthened judiciary will all be necessary to reduce this scourge, which has a significant impact on the lives of our citizens. On a different topic, the Caribbean now has the second highest incidence of HIV/AIDS in the world. We invite the Member States of the United Nations to rededicate themselves to the terms of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS adopted at the special session of the General Assembly on 27 June 2001. Dominican legislation includes law 55-93 on HIV/AIDS, which is now in the process of being reformed and which represents one of the few existing pieces of legislation in our region regarding that disease. We reiterate the request for cooperation to the international community so that, through financing, the countries most seriously affected can have more resources to deal with the consequences of that illness in order to provide the comprehensive care that is very necessary, as well as the antiretroviral medications to combat the illness. This is based on the right of all citizens to life and health. In recent years and in most international forums, our country has referred to the grave crisis confronting the sister republic of Haiti. We have drawn attention to the fact that the Dominican Republic could not and cannot bear the weight of this crisis and its consequences on its shoulders alone. On more than one occasion we have called on the international community for solidarity. We do so with the intent of beginning a far-reaching process that can help in finding a solution to this problem. Today, we see that overcoming this crisis represents a major challenge to the United Nations, and therefore we support the process that began through the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. We consider it very important that the Haitian people see this peaceful mission as the participation of the international community in the stabilization of their nation, and that they at no time view it as an occupation force. Hurricane Jeanne has caused thousands of deaths and much destruction in the area of Gonaïves, Haiti, thus deepening the economic and humanitarian crisis in that country. Now, more than ever, we call on the international community and international financial bodies to provide the necessary financial resources that can place that nation on the path toward stability and progress. Many regions of the world have not yet achieved the peace to which they aspire. Despite all the efforts undertaken in that regard, innocent people continue to lose their lives in a conflict that for decades has characterized the instability of the Middle East. The Dominican Republic avails itself of this forum to reaffirm its unrestricted support for the peace process begun between Israel and Palestine during the 16 1991 Madrid Conference, for the Oslo Agreements, for the recommendations made by United States Senator George Mitchell in his final report and for the road map presented by President George Bush and supported by Russia and the European Union. Finally, the Dominican Republic reiterates its position, expressed in various forums, on the need for a constructive dialogue between the nations located on both sides of the Straits of Taiwan in order to ensure peace and security in that region. I conclude by expressing the hope that this occasion has enabled the Governments represented at this meeting to reflect seriously on our destiny — the destiny of all men and women who live on Earth — and also that the United Nations will be able, with the cooperation of States, to establish the balance necessary for the benefit of international peace and security.Allow me at the outset to express to you, Sir, our warm felicitations on your election as President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. We congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte on his successful stewardship of the fifty-eighth session of the Assembly. I also reaffirm our deep appreciation for the wise leadership of the Secretary- General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his services for the cause of peace and progress in the world. A profound transformation is under way in international relations. The dangerous balances of the cold war have been replaced by the complex and equally dangerous realities of our world today. It is a world marked by intensifying globalization of economies, production, trade and information, on one side; and by terrorist violence, poverty and disease, on the other. The growing asymmetries in power among States, discrimination in the dispensing of international justice, repression of peoplesí legitimate aspirations and growing socio-economic disparities have precipitated new threats to international peace and to international security: the threats of terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and imploding States. The world today sees turmoil and upheaval everywhere, especially in the third world, and more specifically in the Muslim world. Too many fronts have been opened and too many battle lines have been drawn. The time for closing fronts has come. The world today is crying for peace, reconciliation and reform. Our objective today has to be harmony through reconciliation and accommodation, globally and regionally. Terrorism poses the most urgent threat to many countries, including the most powerful States. For many of us, the terrorist threat is very close and may be very personal. Terrorism threatens Pakistan's vital national interests and objectives. We have thus participated actively in the unprecedented global campaign against it. Pakistan has led the way in that campaign. Our counter-terrorist campaign is ongoing. Global cooperation against terrorism has been highly successful. Determined and collective action has contained and disrupted the violent agendas of the terrorists. We are winning the battle against terrorists. However, what we are doing is insufficient to win the ultimate war against them. The immediate anti-terrorist response has to be accompanied by a clear long-term strategy that strikes at the root of the problem if we are to ensure final success against this scourge. I have proposed a two-pronged strategy of enlightened moderation to overcome terrorism and prevent a clash of civilizations. The most recent Islamic Summit, in Malaysia, endorsed that plan, which involves, on the one hand, internal socio- economic reform in the Muslim world and, on the other, active support from the major Powers to ensure political justice and socio-economic revival for all Islamic peoples. While the Islamic world has taken its first step in the form of nominating a Commission of Eminent Persons to propose measures for a renaissance in the Muslim world, the major Powers of the West have yet to show movement in seriously trying to resolve internationally recognized disputes affecting the Muslim world. The industrialized world must support the endeavour to bring about an Islamic renaissance, especially through adequate financial and technical assistance and larger trade opportunities. More important, justice must be offered to Islamic peoples in the form of the resolution of all outstanding international disputes which affect Muslims. There is no time to lose. Action has to be taken before an iron 21 curtain finally descends between the West and the Islamic world. The tragedy of Palestine is an open wound inflicted on the psyche of every Muslim. It generates anger and resentment across the Islamic world. Continued Israeli violence and the Israelis' erection of the illegal separation wall, usurping more Palestinian land, as well as suicide attacks by misguided Palestinians, are frustrating the prospects of peace and prolonging the agony of the Palestinian people. While Pakistan stands for peace, recognizing the right of Israel to exist as also the right of the Palestinians to have their own homeland, we can never accept the usurpation of additional Palestinian land. Israel has no right to erect its separation wall beyond its 1967 boundaries. Pakistan calls on Israel to withdraw the wall from all occupied Palestinian lands, taking it back to the pre-1967 boundaries. We also call on Israel to stop the daily atrocities against Palestinians. Pakistan also appeals to President Yasser Arafat to use his influence to reciprocally halt the intifada and give peace a chance. A major responsibility rests with the Quartet, and in particular with the world's greatest Power, the United States, to secure a fair and peaceful solution to the problem, realizing the vision of two States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace, harmony and security. The United States can and must play the role of a just broker of peace. Peace must succeed in the Middle East; failure is no longer an option. It has always been my conviction that Pakistan and India can resolve all their differences, including over Jammu and Kashmir, through a sincere dialogue. The dangerous confrontation of 2002 and the three wars prior to that between our two countries have demonstrated that there is no military solution to our problems. The aspiration to peace enjoys popular support in Pakistan and, I believe, in India as well. Neither country can achieve its ambition for social and economic progress in the absence of peace. We must achieve peace for the sake of the impoverished people of South Asia ó for their development and prosperity. After several aborted attempts, Pakistan and India have been able to initiate confidence-building measures and a composite dialogue this year to address all outstanding issues. Pakistan has pursued this process with complete sincerity, giving bilateralism a final chance. We feel that the dual channels of confidence-building measures and the dialogue process must proceed in tandem. We also are firmly committed to resolving all disputes with India peacefully, including the Kashmir dispute. That issue cannot be ignored. Its resolution cannot be delayed inordinately. We desire a resolution for Kashmir which is just and acceptable to India, Pakistan and the people of Kashmir. We also seek strategic stability with India. I am glad to say that up until now, the normalization process has progressed well, in a cordial atmosphere. Now that the negotiations are entering the difficult stage of grappling with solutions to previously irreconcilable disputes, Pakistan hopes that India will show the same sincerity, flexibility and boldness that Pakistan will demonstrate. I look forward to my meeting the day after tomorrow with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. I would like to convey to him that this is the moment for peace; we must not allow it to slip away. Iraq has taken a serious turn, to the anguish of the entire world community. It is imperative that together with closing the Palestine and Kashmir fronts, we also wind down the Iraq confrontation. Pakistan stands for restoration of peace and stability in Iraq to ensure its unity and territorial integrity. That can only be achieved through handing over governance authority to the people of Iraq and allowing them full control over their natural resources. Internal law and order and security can be best promoted by local Iraqi police and militia, who need to be built up expeditiously. At an opportune time, and at the request of the people and Government of Iraq, the Muslim world could play a role in bringing peace and harmony to this conflict-torn nation. The forthcoming elections in Afghanistan will be an important landmark in the countryís progress towards democracy and stability. Pakistan will do all it can to prevent terrorists from using our territory to disrupt the Afghan election process. The subsequent parliamentary elections in April 2005 would also augur well for self-governance in Afghanistan. While the political channel is progressing well ó and we wish President Karzai all success ó the process of building the Afghan National Army and reconstruction efforts need to be accelerated in order to install durable peace in Afghanistan. In our globalized world, peace and development are interdependent, now more than ever before. Despite 22 dynamic growth in some parts of the developing world, economic and social disparities are increasing. The rich are richer; the poor are poorer. Over 2 billion people on our planet ó a quarter of the worldís population ó live in abject poverty, afflicted by hunger, disease and conflict. Islands of peace and prosperity cannot coexist for long within oceans of instability and poverty. A bold and innovative global strategy is required to redress the growing inequalities in the world. Good governance is a precondition for development; but the need to rectify the glaring inequities and imbalances in the international financial and trade systems is equally essential. Official development assistance can and must be doubled. Innovative ways can and must be adopted to generate the financial resources required for development. The billions transferred abroad by corrupt leaders should be returned to the looted countries to finance poverty alleviation, education and health. International investment flows should be consciously directed to the poorer developing countries, where such funds could unleash the latent power of the poor for consumption and production. We also know by now that trade, and not just aid, is the way to promote growth and to benefit from globalization. However, it has to be made more equitable. Unfair agricultural subsidies should be eliminated and high and escalating tariffs that discriminate against the products of the poor should be removed. Special and differential treatment should be offered to disadvantaged developing countries. In my view, we need more than a level playing field; we need a field tilted in favour of the developing countries. Unless the worldís leaders generate the political will required to agree and implement those measures urgently, the Millennium Development Goals will remain a mirage. In Pakistan, we are well on the way to transforming our country into a modern, progressive, tolerant, democratic, Islamic state, reflecting the vision of our founding father, Quaid-e-Azam. Democracy has been restored in Pakistan. The people have been empowered through a revolutionary local government system. Our women have been empowered. However, like other developing countries, Pakistan confronts several challenges. But, we are confident of success. Our governance is good. Our national priorities are absolutely clear. Today, there is welcome resurgence of support for multilateralism. This must be a multilateralism based on the principles of the United Nations Charter, a cooperative and democratic multilateralism. It must seek just, peaceful and durable solutions to conflicts and disputes. It must promote a programme for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. It must foster global development and global prosperity. All our collective aspirations can best be pursued within this world Organization. The United Nations must be strengthened and revitalized to respond to the challenges of twenty-first century. The United Nations Security Council should become more effective, democratic and representative. There is no agreement on the aspiration of a few States to acquire permanent membership in the Security Council. The overwhelming majority of States are against the creation of new centres of privilege. The Council should be enlarged to ensure the representation of the mostly small and medium States which have joined the United Nations over the last three decades. We have to consider new ideas to craft a consensus on the enlargement of the Security Council. Pakistan believes that a new consensus on peace, security and development, can and should be achieved on the occasion of the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations next year. The summit meeting suggested by the Secretary-General for next year must lead to a negotiated final document adopted through consensus. That historic summit will, I hope, and Pakistan hopes, create a new paradigm to achieve universal peace and prosperity.I should like at the outset, Mr. President, to hail your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. I would also like to extend to you our best wishes for success in carrying out your mandate, a mandate which reflects the honour bestowed on your country, the Republic of Gabon, by the international community. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, for his selfless commitment to the causes of the United Nations and of Africa in particular. I believe this is also an appropriate time to pay tribute to and commend the actions of the former President of the General Assembly, Mr. Julian Hunte, for his considerable contribution to promoting the universality of the United Nations. My country, the Republic of Cape Verde, is among the small island States. We believe that our States, as a result of their specific characteristics, deserve a special hearing from the international community. In the economic, social and ecological spheres, those States are confronting shortcomings and restrictions specific to them, and these must be duly taken into account. Through its own efforts, but also through the necessary contribution of the international community, Cape Verde is now preparing to better itself and its condition as a least developed country (LDC). My country continues to suffer from a precarious situation which cannot be ignored or minimized. In addition, the small island States often represent unique physical and human realities which form a genuine heritage of mankind. For these and other reasons, I would like here to launch an appeal in favour of the small island States. The international community is going through a particularly complex period marked by challenges of many kinds. We are aware that it is only by focusing on peace, stability, security, dialogue and respect for diversity of interests and cultures, in an atmosphere of freedom, that we can create an international environment conducive to the just settlement of the serious problems we are encountering today. 2 War does not have to be inevitable. Moreover, given the very advanced stage of civilization which mankind has achieved, I think it would be relevant to ask whether it is time to leave behind the concept formulated by the outstanding nineteenth-century German military theoretician Clausewitz, who stated that war is a continuation of policy through other means. I think, rather, that it is by relying on negotiations, dialogue and the acknowledgement of the legitimacy of the interests and rights of all parties, that we can tap the potential for avoiding the need for war as a means of resolving national or international disputes. Finally, it is with respect for international law, drawn up with the participation of all and equally shared and respected by all — a respect which permeates the principles and purposes of the United Nations — that we can find a response leading to a peaceful, prosperous and just world: the world which mankind clearly wishes to see. I would like to reiterate here and now our absolute rejection of the unwarranted use of violence and our unequivocal condemnation of the use of terrorism as a way of resolving political disputes. The trivialization of life and death, which is utterly condemnable, also dehumanizes its proponents and opens the way to the worst kinds of wrongs in relations between human communities. This is why the struggle for peace cannot be halted, and why everyone, especially the United Nations, has the imperative duty to contribute to breaking the cycle of violence and opening the way to peaceful coexistence among nations and human communities. Among the other social ills afflicting our planet which can be effectively combated are hunger and poverty. Their eradication is in fact one of the objectives of the Millennium agenda. I am convinced that success in combating hunger and poverty will have unquestionably positive global effects that would promote unity and harmony within the human family, and would strengthen human rights, including the most sacred and vital right — the right to life. It would also promote the material and moral enrichment of all of human society. It would contribute to the creation of conditions that are a prerequisite for improving international security by lessening migration and bridging the gap between rich and poor, thus eliminating the reasons for the frustration of millions of poor and hungry individuals throughout today’s world. Another tragedy that requires action is HIV/ AIDS, which is mortgaging the future of many countries, particularly in Africa. There is an urgent need to advance and guarantee effective international solidarity in order to root out from the daily lives of millions of human beings the spectre of hunger, poverty and pandemic illnesses. It is my belief that mankind has the resources and potential which will allow us to realize this marvellous dream. The African continent, of which my country and your country, Mr. President, are a part, continue to be faced with enormous and varied challenges. Regarding the critical issue of peace and political stability, we also note a genuine commitment on the part of African States to resolve conflicts and eliminate hotbeds of tension. But the political will of States, regional organizations and the African Union is not enough, and the international community’s commitment and its indispensable contribution in the form of adequate resources are necessary for peace and security to become a reality for all our peoples within a reasonable period of time. Peace is not merely the absence of war. Genuine peace requires sufficient time and confidence-building among parties, as well as a strategy for building peace. So too, peace and stability within States require institutions and policies that are inclusive and that respect and engage all sectors of nations and meet their legitimate political and economic aspirations, while at the same time ensuring the protection of their cultural identity. There can be no doubt that, owing to profound changes in the scientific, technological and socio- political fields, a huge movement of democratization of human societies is under way, backed by the institutions of the rule of law. However, mere political democracy is not sufficient. The ordinary citizen must be guaranteed participation in public affairs and a decent, worthy and dignified life, since there can be no freedom without dignity. It must also be recognized that there are still tenuous vestiges of the old orders, which must once and for all be rooted out and eliminated from relationships between individuals and communities, such as racism, religious and cultural discrimination, 3 gender inequality, and scorn for the fundamental rights of indigenous human communities in various countries. We must also ask whether democracy within States is reflected in relations among States, particularly when we note the existence of an imbalanced world in which the inequality of power between the haves and the have nots continues to grow day by day. Therefore, there is a critical need to promote the democratization of international relations by seeking better balance in relations among States. International democracy based on dialogue and cooperation among States and among cultures, on tolerance and respect for cultural diversity among communities and on human solidarity and respect for the legitimate political and material interests of all parties, of nations large and small would show itself in the implementation of genuine multilateralism in global governance. Herein undoubtedly lie the foundations for triumph over today’s challenges and the assurance of a safe, peaceful, predictable and prosperous future for humanity. In several months, the United Nations will mark 60 years of rich and intense life that has been filled with challenges, upheavals and extremely complex problems, but that has also been marked by innumerable victories and hopes for humanity. My country joined the community of nations in large part because of the intervention of the United Nations to promote the freedom and human rights of colonial peoples, for which we shall always be grateful. I believe that, in the light of the profound changes that have occurred over the past six decades in all areas of the international arena and the emergence of a new balance of forces and extremely complex challenges requiring urgent and immediate responses, it is becoming clear that we need to move forward with reform of the United Nations, particularly the Security Council. In my view, the planned reform should, in addition to reflecting new global geopolitical realities, guarantee representativity and appropriate intervention and participation for all continents and all communities. From that perspective, we would then have a more balanced international community and a more equitable sharing of responsibility in the building of humanity’s future. Before concluding, I should like to highlight the successful actions carried out in the past few years by the United Nations under the leadership of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has enabled us to keep on the international agenda substantive issues that confront many societies daily, which has enabled this universal institution to be in direct contact with concerns and challenges that are worrisome to all members of the human family. Here, I should also like to honour the memory of all those who have served the United Nations and fallen victim to senseless acts resulting from intolerance and the terrorism of radical movements. I emphasize the need for all countries and all formal and informal institutions to guarantee and respect the security of such noble men and women, for they are on a mission to serve all of us. I hope, Sir, that this fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly, which is taking place under your presidency, will provide new gains for peace, justice, social progress and global stability. Finally, I should like to reiterate the words of Pope John Paul II, the unquestionable moral authority of our time, in his appeal to world leaders on 1 January this year: “The United Nations ... needs to rise more and more above the cold status of an administrative institution and to become a moral centre where all the nations of the world feel at home ...”The Holy See is honoured to take part in the general debate of the General Assembly of the United Nations for the first time since the Assembly adopted resolution 58/314 on 1 July 2004, which formalized and specified the rights and prerogatives of its status as a Permanent Observer, a status which the Holy See has enjoyed since 1964. It is therefore my pleasant duty to express sincere gratitude to all the Member States. In approving the aforesaid resolution, they signalled once again the particular bond of cooperation between the Apostolic See and the United Nations, already underlined by Pope John Paul II on his first visit to this Assembly exactly 25 years ago. In this significant circumstance, I am honoured to convey to you, Sir, and to all of you gathered here to represent your noble countries, the respectful and cordial greetings of Pope John Paul II. I bring a special greeting to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Kofi Annan, and also to his worthy assistants. Their work, as recorded in the annual report of the Secretary General (A/59/1) with reference, above all, to conflict prevention and peacekeeping in the world, deserves the appreciation and gratitude of us all. Several of the themes included in the agenda of the General Assembly may be considered essential for attaining the supreme objective of peace and for the future of humanity. To quote only a few: the United Nations and a new global human order; pursuit of the Millennium Goals; total and general disarmament; globalization and interdependence; international migration and development; human rights; and human cloning. I shall limit myself to a brief presentation of the Holy See’s position regarding some of those issues. Among the Millennium Goals, pride of place goes to the theme of poverty and development. I say pride of place, because it concerns the right to subsistence of hundreds of millions of human beings, surviving — as best they can — below the threshold of what is necessary, as well as tens of millions of undernourished children unjustly deprived of the right to live. In order to find a lasting solution to those inhumane conditions, it is necessary to progress, under the aegis of the United Nations, towards a more flexible and more just international trade system. Furthermore, financial structures are needed which favour development and the cancellation of foreign debt for the poorest countries. Likewise, the results of scientific research and technology must be generously shared, especially in the field of health. On that matter I need say no more, since the Holy See’s position has already been presented once again by the Cardinal Secretary of State, at the conference on hunger and poverty held in New York on 20 September. I repeat only this: the urgency of the situation cannot tolerate delay. It is a question of justice. Of immediate relevance to the supreme good of peace is the theme of total and general disarmament. If it is true that the production and sale of arms to other countries endangers peace, it follows that severe and effective international controls are needed. The commitment of the United Nations in that area is attested to by the various conventions it has supported with reference to weapons of mass destruction as well as conventional weapons. But we are only at the beginning of a long process, with huge economic interests as obstacles along our path towards peace. The problem of weapons of mass destruction is clearly to be distinguished from that of conventional weapons; but the latter have a terrible and unending contemporary relevance in the numerous armed conflicts that stain the world with blood, and also in terrorism. Regional armed conflicts are so numerous that there is no time to list them all. However, there are some that I cannot omit to mention. Above all there is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. That conflict is not simply contained within the narrow territorial boundaries of the region itself. Those directly involved are the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority, and they have the grave duty to demonstrate their desire for peace. With this end in view, a road map has been drawn up and formally accepted by both parties; may they proceed along it with determination and courage. 26 But that conflict is also followed with intense interest and often with passion by large sections of humanity. The Catholic Church, present in Palestine for 2,000 years, invites all concerned to turn their backs on any action likely to destroy confidence and to utter generous words of peace and make bold gestures of peace. And if peace is the fruit of justice, let it not be forgotten — as Pope John Paul II has reminded us — that there can be no justice without forgiveness; indeed, without mutual forgiveness. Then there is the Iraqi conflict. The position of the Holy See concerning the military action of 2002- 2003 is well known. Everyone can see that it did not lead to a safer world either inside or outside Iraq. The Holy See believes it is now imperative to support the present Iraqi Government in its efforts to bring the country to normality and to a political system that is substantially democratic and in harmony with the values of its historic traditions. The Holy See is gravely concerned about various African countries scarred by bloodshed arising from mutual conflicts and even more from internal strife. They need active international solidarity: more specifically, and connaturally, the African Union needs to intervene authoritatively so as to bring all legitimate interested parties around a negotiating table. The African Union has already demonstrated its ability to act successfully in some cases: it deserves recognition and support. I have mentioned the theme of terrorism, an aberrant phenomenon, utterly unworthy of man, which has already assumed global dimensions: today no State can presume to be safe from it. Hence, it seems obvious that terrorists can be effectively challenged only through a concerted, multilateral approach, respecting the ius gentium, and not through a policy of unilateralism. No one is in any doubt that the fight against terrorism means, first and foremost, neutralizing its active breeding grounds. But the underlying causes are many and complex: political, social, cultural, religious; for this reason, what is still more important is long-term action, directed, with foresight and patience, at its roots, designed to stop its spreading further and to extinguish its deadly contagious effects. The Holy See, and the entire Catholic Church, is actively involved in this work. It is involved through its educational and charitable institutions, which, wherever they are, are committed to raising the cultural and social levels of the populations, without any discrimination, especially on religious grounds; it is involved through interreligious dialogue, which has grown in intensity ever since the Second Vatican Ecumenical Council. The Holy See will always be grateful to the authorities of other religions that demonstrate openness to such dialogue, and also to the civil authorities that encourage it, without any political interference, respecting the distinction between the religious and the civil sphere and the fundamental human right to freedom of religion. The right to freedom of religion is sanctioned, together with other fundamental rights, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948. Such fundamental human rights stand or fall together. And man stands or falls with them. For this reason, every effort has to be made to defend them in all fields. For this to happen, one particular danger must be avoided, which is found today in various countries and social settings. It is the idea that these fundamental human rights, as sanctioned by the Universal Declaration, are expressions of a particular culture and are therefore highly relative. No, at heart, they are expressions of the human being as such, even if the fact remains that, at different times and in different cultures, they may have been and may still be differently applied, in more or less adequate and acceptable ways. Among the fundamental rights, or rather foremost among them, as the Universal Declaration explicitly states, is the right to life of every individual. The Holy See could say a great deal about the right to life of every individual, because the essence of its message is the gospel of life. The question of human cloning comes under the same broad heading. In a few weeks, this General Assembly will resume its debate on human cloning. In this respect, the Holy See is pleased to reaffirm its commitment to support the advancement of medical science, conducted always in a manner that respects human dignity, because it offers healing and cures for various diseases. With this end in view, the Holy See reiterates its support for the procurement and use of adult stem cells and believes that the way forward is to 27 draw up and implement a clear convention that will result in a comprehensive ban on human cloning. “Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world,” So begins the preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is one of the many undeniable merits of the United Nations to have proposed to the conscience of all humanity, more than 50 years ago, these secure principles for progress towards peace. Over the years, however, the United Nations has needed to adapt its procedures to take account of developments on the world political scene so that its work for the promotion of peace can become more effective. The first results of the high-level commission set up for this purpose by Secretary-General Kofi Annan were published last June. The Holy See will be able to offer some explicit evaluation on the occasion of the debate on the subject to be held next week. For now, I should simply like to recall Pope John Paul II’s words for this year’s International Day of Peace. He reminded us that humanity today is in a new and more difficult phase of its genuine development, and he called for a greater degree of international ordering. This could be brought about by giving organizations like the United Nations special prerogatives to facilitate action to prevent conflicts at times of international crisis, and also, when absolutely necessary, humanitarian intervention — that is, action aimed at disarming the aggressor. Yet, the greater degree of international ordering could be achieved still more effectively if the United Nations were to rise to the status of a moral centre, where all nations of the world feel at home and develop a shared awareness of being, as it were, a family of nations. Now and in the future, the United Nations can count on the Holy See to be not only an attentive Permanent Observer, but also a travelling companion, ever ready to support its complex and difficult activity, and also to collaborate in a spirit of freedom and friendship with all the Member States.Although protocol requires that our statements be brief, it is no matter of routine for Equatorial Guinea to congratulate Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Gabonese Republic, on his well-deserved election to guide the work of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth regular session. We congratulate you, Mr. President, because, first, it is right that the voice of the oppressed and marginalized that you represent should be heard loud and clear by the international community. Secondly, we would like also to encourage you, because the task facing you personally and your country, the Gabonese Republic, is to coordinate — and to endeavour to reconcile — the varied and opposing interests that exist in this unipolar, artificial and fragile world, where few speak out, others say nothing or only listen, and yet others speak, but to no effect. The task is difficult, because we need to rebuild the international authority that has been taken away from the United Nations. We can do this only if there is a spirit of honesty, individual and collective responsibility, and goodwill on the part of Member States, so that selfish interests can be put aside in the common fight to ensure the primacy of the principles and objectives of this world Organization, which are positive and universal. Mr. President, you will always be able to count on the support and ongoing cooperation of my country, the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, in ensuring that your work is fruitful and benefits humankind. We express our eternal gratitude to Mr. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of this Organization, who at all times has been equal to the circumstances and who has dealt with caution, impartiality and justice with the issues that have come to the attention of the Organization over the course of this year. We reiterate our confidence in him and assure him of our cooperation in the task of strengthening the role of the United Nations. Equatorial Guinea is participating in the work of the General Assembly at this session with deep concern because of the dangers and threats posed by the methods used by more powerful countries in intervening in the affairs of less protected nations, such as my own. We believe that the United Nations has still not fulfilled its primary objective of guaranteeing international peace and security. We are living in times of serious upheaval in various parts of the world, brought about by the anarchy that currently characterizes international relations. Equatorial Guinea will join its efforts with those of the international community in order to strengthen the international authority of the United Nations. We have come to the United Nations to state publicly that Equatorial Guinea is under threat. We say this out loud, and we hope that we will truly be heard, because we know that complaints by weaker States have often fallen on deaf ears in this forum when the interests of the strongest are at stake. Equatorial Guinea is facing a serious threat, and we ask the United Nations to take serious, committed measures, not only with regard to the issues affecting Equatorial Guinea today but also in order to prevent 41 other countries in the same situation as ours from being victimized by the same sort of conspiracy in future. Indeed, my country is being threatened by the incessant and poisonous campaign of defamation against my Government that has been orchestrated by pressure groups and by the press of certain countries — saying that we in Equatorial Guinea do not respect human rights, calling my Government a dictatorship, as well as accusing us of squandering oil revenues. That campaign has as its only objective the justification of an absurd intervention by force in Equatorial Guinea — the failed multinational mercenary invasion that was to have taken place on 6 March last. The international community is aware of the events connected to that aborted plan thanks to press reports on the trials, held simultaneously in Equatorial Guinea and in Zimbabwe, of those mercenaries who were arrested in Malabo and in Harare, respectively. Indeed, and under the pretext of supporting the political claims of a supposed opposition leader in exile in Spain, a number of mercenaries, of various nationalities but with a common leadership, acquired a cargo plane with the goal of transporting to Malabo, in the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, 65 trained, armed men who were to take part in an invasion — a suicide operation. They planned to occupy previously identified strategic areas, in order physically to remove the President of the Republic, members of the Government and anyone who opposed them. The invasion, planned for the night of 7 March 2004, would have represented the implementation of an elaborate plan, hatched, elaborated and perfected by another group of 18 men, who had obtained a license to fly cargo and passenger planes in Equatorial Guinea, using the facilities provided by the Government. That group was to join up with those coming from Harare. The support that they received from Spain was to involve the use of two Spanish Navy warships with 500 sailors on board, for support in case of resistance. The goal was to put in power, at Government headquarters, Mr. Severo Moto Nsa, who had formed a government in exile that was recognized by the previous Government of Spain. Fortunately, the solidarity of the Governments of Angola, Zimbabwe and South Africa came into play and they alerted the security services of my country, which acted immediately, arresting, on the night of 6 March, the 18 men stationed in Malabo, while the Harare Government did the same with those found in that capital’s airport on 7 March 2004. The mercenaries themselves, in public statements during the trials held in Malabo and in Harare, explained the plan’s objectives and named the people involved. They also gave details on the financing of the purchase of arms and of the cargo plane, and on the offer of the Spanish ships, which were already, at that time, anchored in the territorial waters of Equatorial Guinea. The Secretary-General, as well as the Members of this Organization, should know that, a month before those events, my Government had rejected and denounced the sending of those warships to Equatorial Guinea in a note to the Spanish Government, which at the time was using as a pretext its support for the Government of Equatorial Guinea in the conflict related to its claim of sovereignty over the island of Mbañie. This General Assembly can, I am sure, understand the danger and the loss of human life that this invasion would have caused if it had succeeded. We know that Equatorial Guinea is a victim for the sole reason that it has respected the principles and exercised the fundamental rights of a sovereign State, which are the exercise of sovereignty by the people, non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries and the right to the exclusive use of the resources that nature has given it. If this is so, we would like the Assembly to reply to the following questions, if possible. Why are so many negative things currently being said about Equatorial Guinea in foreign circles, when the country’s people themselves live in peace and there are no demands being made by the populace or from the people’s representative bodies? Why this talk of dictatorship and oppression in Equatorial Guinea, when the administration in power has re-established political freedom in the country, with 13 political parties in a country of barely one million people? Can a dictatorship based on oppression allow freedom such as the current level of foreign investment and the arrival of more than seventeen international flights per week to such a small country as Equatorial Guinea? 42 Is there an international police force that has the authority to tell Equatorial Guinea how to use its economic resources, when we already have an administrative and political organization for managing our resources with transparency? Can a country that does not use its resources for the benefit of the people approve an annual budget, through parliament, of 618 billion CFA francs as a justifiable public cost? Is it true that the only way to end the abuse allegedly committed by Equatorial Guinea would be to organize the kind of terrorist and mercenary invasion targeted at eliminating innocent people that was planned on 6 March 2004? Equatorial Guinea would like to know whether this mercenary system is supported by the international community. If it is supported, which countries are responsible for this crime? We do not believe that there is any difference between the terrorism that we condemn today and the terrorist acts committed by mercenaries in various parts of the world. Equatorial Guinea is seriously under threat. We say this because we know from reliable sources that our enemies will not forgive the embarrassment and defeat caused by the failure of the mercenary invasion on 6 March. However, this does not mean that Equatorial Guinea is going to drop its arms or fall on its knees and let the enemy do with it what it will. We believe that the United Nations responsibility is to maintain peace and international security and to avoid a merciless war between countries. We would like to affirm that there are countries who are Members of this global Organization, represented in this hemicycle, whose security agencies were informed of this devilish plan, and who, unlike Angola, South Africa and Zimbabwe, who expressed their solidarity, simply kept silent, waiting for events to unfold. But we ask you to leave us in peace, because Equatorial Guinea is a peaceful country and we do not think that we have offended anyone. A detailed analysis of the situation has shown us that the end of the cold war has not actually led to the unification of humanity and the integration of the world as we had hoped. Rather, it has rekindled selfish and perverse feelings among those who have always dominated — or have always wanted to dominate — the world. The phenomenon of mercenaries, therefore, is a classic practice of States’ piracy, politically dressed up and falsely justified by political, economic and humanitarian interests. This is why we continue to see this defamatory campaign, to justify a possible invasion. Nevertheless, Equatorial Guinea does not need to please the international community with propaganda regarding our development. Our only judge and arbiter is our own people, to which our State institutions must justify their actions. This tactic of creating a falsified negative image of a State is of no surprise to anybody at the moment, and it should least of all be a surprise to this world Organization. We also see that the theory of a globalized world is a fallacy, because, as we very often say, you cannot call a dog to you while holding a stick to beat it. We cannot accept globalization when the concept of colonialism, the superiority of some peoples over others or even of neo-colonialism still exists. Globalization is in contradiction with the concept of the superiority of some over others. Globalization does not mean exclusion as opposed to integration and cooperation. Finally, globalization does not mean power relations such as those that some would like to impose. The situation in Equatorial Guinea affects other countries of Central Africa as well, as the terrorists themselves have declared. We know that the mercenaries have acted in other parts of the world, and we bring this to the General Assembly because of the destructive effects that have been seen in other affected countries. We feel that solidarity among African States and the third world in general is absolutely indispensable, because we are the direct victims of those who are ordering these mercenary acts. In conclusion, we must stop looking backwards. The current breakdown of the forces of peace, independence and the sovereignty of States, as the antithesis to the major wars of the past century, shows us that we are close to unleashing a universal holocaust. The situation today is that the weakest and most needy are ignored and marginalized. We have to put a stop to this race to chaos and build a world that is more respectful of the human race.I am pleased to welcome and congratulate you, Sir, and the Republic of Gabon through you, for allowing us to share your experience and expertise on the occasion of the fifty- ninth session of the General Assembly. I must convey to Mr. Julian Hunte, Foreign Minister of Saint Lucia, my country’s gratitude for his hard work and memorable contribution to this Organization over the past year. The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis reaffirms its strong support for and commitment to the praiseworthy, attainable Millennium Development Goals. Their stated objectives are fundamental and have long been incorporated into my country’s national human development agenda. For decades, before the Millennium Development Goals were agreed upon, Saint Kitts and Nevis had instituted compulsory primary and secondary education, which may explain our achievement of a literacy rate of 97.8 per cent. We in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) are very proud of our achievements in the field of education. We owe much of that success to our coherent system of education and also to the University of the West Indies, whose academic credentials continue to amaze and evolve to meet the needs of our people. We invite fellow United Nations Member States to explore that resource in the Caribbean so their citizens can pursue higher education in that great institution of learning and in the most peaceful and pristine of multicultural settings. It is easy to become excited when I speak of our efforts in addressing the issue of women in development, but we will not let down our guard. In Saint Kitts and Nevis, we have recognized and benefited from gender equality and the empowerment of women. It may be recalled that Saint Kitts and Nevis was among the first in this hemisphere to create a Ministry Of Women’s Affairs. Equally important to the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis is winning the war against poverty. We remain steadfast in our efforts to eliminate poverty, which is not simply a noble ideal. It is a practical, achievable objective and, by God, it is the right thing to do. In Saint Kitts and Nevis, in the last seven years, we have endured social and economic dislocations in the wake of several catastrophic natural disasters, 9/11 and the downturns in the global economy. Nonetheless, with due care and attention to prudent fiscal and monetary management, we are investing in the socio- economic development of our country and continue to place people first in all that we do. My Government has invested greatly in our national health system, supported by the construction of a modern hospital and the professional development of health care workers. We believe that this will improve the quality of and access to health care for nationals and visitors alike. Our continued efforts to build a healthy nation are consistent with our resolve to reduce child mortality and improve maternal health. Our capital project investments have improved the existing distribution networks to satisfy demand and to better extend service coverage for potable water throughout the islands of Saint Kitts and Nevis. Our road improvement and maintenance programmes have resurfaced miles of road and improved drainage throughout the twin island Federation. The improvement of the tourism product has generated several new jobs consistent with my Government’s people-focused agenda. It has allowed us to depend 14 less on an agriculture-based economy, which continues to suffer from Government subsidies offered to farmers in large countries. Such subsidies make it more difficult for small economies like mine to compete. Our capacity to compete is further undermined by the recent unilateral decision of the European Union to reduce the price of sugar by more than 30 per cent. Despite these challenges, we continue to press on, mindful of the need to preserve the environment. Saint Kitts and Nevis are two beautiful islands faced with the geographic reality of being located in the hurricane corridor. We witness the cost of beach and coastal erosion resulting from rising sea levels and hurricanes. Integrating environmentally sustainable policies into our development agenda has been a real challenge. However, our determination to protect and preserve the islands’ patrimony by adopting environmentally friendly programmes is imperative. At this juncture, I need to emphasize the current situation facing small island developing States. All small island developing States lack the economy of scale to overcome their vulnerabilities on their own. We are extremely vulnerable unless we form geographical partnerships, as CARICOM has done. That, however, does not exempt us from the vulnerabilities that we face every day. Geographical partnership does allow for a quick response in the event of adversity. My delegation urges the international community to accept the concept of vulnerability, leading to a vulnerability index that can be appropriately applied to small island developing States. Grenada’s devastation within three hours of being struck by hurricane Ivan dramatizes for us how a generation of development progress can be wiped out in a small vulnerable nation. There is a pressing need for a global development fund to assist small island developing States in recovery following national disasters. Pragmatic and productive partnerships are the most effective vehicle available to the international community to tackle the multitude of problems we face. We speak of important issues, such as democracy, globalization, terrorism, poverty eradication, human development and the spread of infectious disease, as if they were completely disconnected. The goal of human development on any scale is best achieved by recognizing the interconnectedness of our lives, our economies and our policies. That imposes an obligation to develop common strategies, partnerships and policy approaches that accept and address the intrinsic linkages among the problems facing nation States. I submit that the Pan-Caribbean Partnership Against HIV/AIDS is the first and only regional mechanism created to deal with the pandemic in a multinational way. Our regional cooperation has led to reductions in the cost of antiretroviral drugs from $20,000 per person per year to $200 per patient per year. We have also been successful in negotiating reduced prices for other important pharmaceutical drugs. That experience speaks to the value of partnership and cooperation. We believe that networks are the most effective means of problem solving. We praise the efforts of the Global Fund and the United Nations for their work in mobilizing additional resources to treat people living with HIV/AIDS and to fight the spread of the disease. The idea of fighting HIV/AIDS only through faith simplifies the human condition and suggests a misunderstanding of the nature and scope of the disease. My Government insists that a pragmatic policy approach to fighting the spread of HIV/AIDS is as fundamental to good governance as is the holding of free and fair elections. Good governance means Governments listening to and caring for their citizens. Good governance implies that leaders must lead with moral courage and take bold and sometimes controversial steps in the public interests. Good governance means placing the United Nations at the centre of our international interaction, in accordance with and in full respect for the Charter. Good governance requires respect for every country’s right to choose its own course, consistent with its own laws and the will of its people. Good governance is not simply about whether we ostracize a country if its policies run counter to our national agenda. It should be about creating better understanding, cooperation and partnership and building bridges of friendship. Good governance suggests to us in Saint Kitts and Nevis that Governments abide by and commit themselves to internationally recognized standards and principles and do not discard them when it becomes expedient. Good governance entails holding everyone to the same standard and not raising the bar for some countries and lowering it for others. Good governance should propel us to recognize the fact that nearly 23 million people in the Republic of 15 China on Taiwan are essentially in a diplomatic black hole, alienated from our international discourse. Good governance requires all peace-loving nations to urge both sides of the Taiwan Straits not only to commit to, but also to engage in constructive dialogue and preventive diplomacy. Good governance behooves us to support the hard work of the leaders and people of the Republic of China on Taiwan to comply with and work within the framework of international law. Good governance says to us in Saint Kitts and Nevis that a people committed to the rule of law and democracy and willing to invest in human development at home and abroad should never be excluded from the fraternity of nations. In addition, CARICOM takes great pride in our parliamentary system of Government and our solid democracies from a centuries-old tradition. Our history teaches us that good governance and human development are indivisible. Where representative democracy, democratic institution-building, freedom of expression and the protection of human rights have not flourished, human development has suffered. Where Governments have failed to respect the will of the people, human development has faltered. Although CARICOM faces great limitations and challenges owing to the absence of natural and financial resources, we have managed to build credible democratic institutions, a reliable judicial system and lasting democracies in which the transition from incumbent Governments to opposition parties passes without incident. We are ready to share these experiences with the rest of the world. In conclusion, for decades countries and academics have questioned the viability of small States. History, though, has witnessed not only our viability, but also that we are a dependable beacon of hope for others, be they large or small. We live in an interconnected world where national political decisions in one corner of the world have devastating consequences thousands of miles away. We must therefore of necessity become our brothers’ keepers. In that vein, we call on Member States to lend their support to the international meeting to review the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, scheduled to be held in Mauritius in January 2005. Finally, I would like to repeat my call that partnership must trump nationalism and that multilateralism must transcend unilateralism.I bring to this gathering a warm greeting from the people of the Republic of Vanuatu. Mr. President, at the outset, I take this opportunity to congratulate you on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty- ninth session. I also take this occasion to acknowledge with deep gratitude the contributions of your predecessor, who so competently steered the work of the fifty-eighth session to its conclusion. Here, I must also acknowledge the outstanding role of Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who has been resolute in his efforts to revitalize the Organization’s ability to address global concerns. My delegation reaffirms its support for Mr. Annan’s profound and meticulous leadership of the United Nations. I also take this opportunity to convey the condolences of my Government and the people of Vanuatu to the people of the Caribbean nations, in particular Haiti, for the loss of so many lives and for the extensive damage caused by the destructive forces of nature that recently swept through the region. We offer them our moral support and pray that the affected peoples will soon recover and that the devastated areas of their nations will be swiftly rehabilitated and rebuilt. Those inevitable natural calamities demonstrate once more the extreme and particular vulnerability of island States, which seriously affects national economies. Every year, from this rostrum, we reaffirm our faith and confidence in upholding the purposes and principles of the Charter. We entered the new millennium with much anticipation and hope of creating a just and better world for all our citizens. However, global insecurity and the varying dimensions of serious conflict have created a frightening situation. It is to be expected that the world will plunge into further turmoil unless the role of the United Nations — the only truly global body — is reinvigorated and recovers its legitimate responsibility of addressing the causes of conflict and maintaining peace and security. I come to the Assembly with some trepidation, as I see our world spiralling out of control unless its Members uphold the universality of the United Nations decision- making process in addressing global concerns. The world is at a crossroads and we meet here at a critical juncture. Around us, civil strife, wars, poverty, disease, famine, drought, natural disasters, terrorism, environmental degradation, depletion of land and marine resources and other phenomena are ravaging the world. The displacement of peoples from their natural habitats and the sacrilege of human suffering in many parts of the world demonstrate that 25 unless immediate remedial strategies are implemented, the global situation will continue to deteriorate. Moreover, the emergence of conflict in areas we once believed stable, the deterioration of law and order and the senseless killing of innocent peoples are painful reminders that we need to rethink our policies and decisions. Globalization has brought with it both opportunities and challenges, but for the small island States the challenges are much more ominous. Those are the realities. Those negative developments lead me to conclude that the United Nations is indispensable and that we all need to work as friends and equal partners. Globalization has brought nations together. We are interlinked and interdependent. That demands global cooperation and governance from all responsible Members of the Organization. Understandably, there are the vested interests of the powerful, but that only necessitates genuine cooperation and goodwill to achieve convergence of those interests. The United Nations role in that regard must remain fundamental in order to ensure compatibility with the international legal framework. Maverick policies and decisions will only create further divisions and hostility. With that in mind, I believe there is now consensus on introducing far-reaching reforms that make the United Nations relevant for all its Members, with the fundamental objective of preserving international peace, security and stability. My Government fully supports efforts to reform the United Nations system in order to ensure a stronger and more effective Organization. On that note, my delegation endorses the view of other delegations on the need to review the membership of the Security Council so that it will better reflect geographical distribution and the underrepresented groups of Member countries of the United Nations, without affecting the authority of the Council. I hope all the rhetoric that has come before the Assembly can be translated into concrete and practical action. We must be resolute in our collective desire to work together as sovereign nations in addressing the world’s problems through multilateral institutions. The blueprint for international cooperation has been established, but reforming certain structures in the United Nations system must be seen as a prerequisite if we are serious about moving forward. The Achilles heel of the current structure is the imbalance of power in the United Nations system. It has become so chronic that it has weakened the multilateral focus, cohesiveness and internationalism of the United Nations. The principles of democratization and good governance so actively advocated and championed by some Members must be reflected in the reorganization and decision-making process of the United Nations system. It is in this regard that Vanuatu supports the review of the permanent membership of the Security Council in order to include Japan and one representative each from the African continent, the Middle East and the group of small developing countries. A more representative Council will bring about openness and transparency, create confidence and ameliorate understanding and cooperation. A restructuring of the membership of the Security Council is long overdue. Diversity is essential there. My Government looks forward to the report of the Secretary-General’s High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Threats. Although the fight against terrorism takes centre stage, it must not overshadow the socio-economic development agenda and other serious security concerns affecting the developing world, and in particular small island States. Resources will inevitably be diverted towards combating terrorism in all its facets, but judicious decisions need to be taken. It is against that background that our delegation wishes to associate itself with statements made by other delegations on the imperativeness of supporting the development constraints of developing nations, and in particular the concerns of the small island States on vulnerability. At the Millennium Summit leaders adopted the eight Millennium Development Goals, with targets to be achieved by 2015. Although commitments have been made, the lethargic performance of many countries, including Vanuatu, demonstrate the need for more international support in assisting countries to meet those targets. The global economic situation today discriminates against many developing economies. Unfair trading practices and the imposition of intrusive policies on national economies — including that of Vanuatu — affect those economies by opening them up to unfavourable conditions that only favour stronger nations. The post-Cancún period poses extreme challenges to the economic survival and socio- 26 economic stability of many small developing nations like Vanuatu. My Government’s initial focus is on the social sector, namely, on health and education. The Government’s prioritized action agenda, which was launched last year in consultation with our development partners, is the catalyst for Vanuatu’s medium- to long-term strategic planning. This development policy framework is consistent with achieving the targets of the Millennium Development Goals and emphasizes the need to empower our rural population through infrastructure- and capacity- building initiatives. We appeal to our development partners to adequately assist us in its implementation. On that note, my delegation wishes to express its gratitude to the United States of America for granting Vanuatu eligibility to access development funding from the Millennium Challenge Account. The primary responsibility for development lies with a State itself. Yet, external influences and conditional aid have not adequately corresponded with Vanuatu’s development priorities and achievements. The pretext for meting out foreign advice conditioned with development assistance has been to improve governance and other sectors considered vital in establishing a strong economy. In Vanuatu’s case that line of argument has not produced tangible results, with restricted progress being reflected in our continuous struggle with reforms that are more or less dictated by external forces. Both the recipient and the external assistance must be balanced and sensitive to national interests. Too often, that normal reaction is misunderstood by some of our development partners. From Vanuatu’s perspective, externally driven reforms must be buttressed by an equal partnership that respects local tradition, culture and the rights of all citizens without disturbing the essential uniting mechanisms of society that have successfully held us together over time. An exploitative agenda can only erode and dismantle those ingrained mechanisms, leaving us vulnerable to the rapid changes affecting all of us today. Vanuatu embraces democracy and the concepts of governance and transparency, but they must be tailored to suit the traditional system without affecting the relevance and significance of those far-reaching principles. In recent times, the history of the Organization has been characterized by indecision, which blemishes the record of the United Nations. I speak about the longstanding issue of self-determination, and in particular the case of West Papua, and I do so while being cognizant of the Charter and while espousing the principles that continue to guide the Organization’s efforts in the process of self-determination. The United Nations must be consistent in its decisions for the recognition and respect of the fundamental rights to self-determination for the people of West Papua. The truth surrounding the so-called Act of Free Choice must be exposed to the Melanesian sisters and brothers of West Papua and the rest of the international community. Saddest of all is General Assembly resolution 2504 (XXIV) of 1969, concerning West Papua. How can the United Nations continue to ignore the cries of over 3 million people demanding justice? As world leaders, we have time and again expressed serious concerns and dissatisfaction about the fact that certain decisions and actions by the United Nations or its bodies were not consistent with the purposes and intentions of the Charter. However, in the case of West Papua, absolutely nothing has been done to rectify the gross violation of internationally accepted practice. It is therefore our joint responsibility to address this grey area of history. The continuing disputes and concerns raised with regard to the legality of United Nations-endorsed instruments that have been concluded throughout the years — such as the New York Agreement of 1962, to govern the United Nations administration of the so- called Act of Free Choice in West Papua — is a clear example challenging the integrity and validity of United Nations resolutions at that time. In our opinion, the United Nations-conducted exercises were a total farce conditioned only to suit the geopolitical climate of that period. The United Nations cannot, and must not, continue to turn a blind eye to its own past failures. It is morally, politically and legally wrong to do so. The Netherlands in particular, which was the former colonial authority, should also recognize that it should shoulder some responsibility in helping to resolve the unfortunate situation of West Papua in a peaceful and transparent manner. Why is no one accountable for those unjust decisions affecting the lives of millions of people today? Vanuatu therefore calls for the establishment of a special commission of inquiry to review the United Nations conduct in relation to the 1969 Act. We also call for the United Nations to send a fact-finding mission to examine the situation in West Papua with regard to human rights abuses and other related issues. And we call for the reinscription of West Papua on the 27 list of Non-Self-Governing Territories. Those are critically challenging responsibilities. On a final matter, my delegation strongly reaffirms its support for resolution 2758 (XXVI), which was adopted during the twenty-sixth session, in 1971, and which recognized the legal and political representation of the People’s Republic of China as a Member of the United Nations. Vanuatu again reiterates its unwavering support for one China and urges all members of the United Nations to work in the interests of world peace and stability in the Asia- Pacific region. In conclusion, I must bring to the attention of the Assembly another priority issue that is of grave importance to my Government and nation. I would once again like to raise the matter of the relocation of the Pacific Operations Centre of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) from Vanuatu to another location. My Government was not properly consulted in that regard, and requests that the decision to relocate the Centre from Vanuatu be reconsidered. If the Centre’s relevance in the region is being questioned, then my Government would propose that a proper review be carried out with a view to restructuring the ESCAP office in order to relocate the Pacific Operations Centre to Bangkok. Programmes and activities under ESCAP responsibility may be better coordinated through the United Nations Development Programme activities in the region. I hope that wisdom will prevail as the debate continues on our future destiny. Despite all our differences and diversity, human security for all is our main goal. That should remain the focus of the United Nations agenda. The cardinal question is whether Members will allow the United Nations to undertake serious reforms in meeting the challenges ahead. The future remains in our hands.I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. You can be assured of Jamaica’s fullest support and cooperation during your tenure. The outgoing President, Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia, deserves commendation for his energy and outstanding leadership during the fifty-eighth session, during which he achieved significant accomplishments, particularly in the area of the revitalization of the General Assembly. He leaves a legacy of a strengthened presidency and a good foundation for further operational improvements in the work of the Assembly and in its relations with other organs. In reviewing the developments of the past year, we note that the anticipated growth in the global economy has been dampened by uncertainties arising from macro-economic imbalances in larger economies and the impact of increased oil prices. Political instability in many regions of the world has not abated and, in some cases, has increased to critical levels. Many developing countries continue to struggle for survival in the globalized economy, especially in the face of changing commodity regimes, the erosion of preferences and unfavourable market conditions. The gap between rich and poor continues to widen. There may be some glimmers of hope, but more needs to be done to correct existing imbalances and to broaden opportunities for all to share in global prosperity. Formidable challenges remain for developing countries. 25 In our part of the world, those challenges have taken on grave new proportions in the wake of the recent spate of hurricanes which have devastated the Caribbean and affected several States of the United States of America. In the Bahamas, Barbados, Cuba, the Cayman Islands, the Dominican Republic, Grenada, Haiti and my own country, Jamaica, the loss of life and the scale of destruction and damage to infrastructure, property and means of livelihood have been catastrophic. What had taken several generations to build has suddenly vanished and will take years to recover. The case of Grenada, which was virtually obliterated, is particularly striking. For those who have had doubts about the reality of the vulnerability of small island States, these recent events should be convincing evidence. In Jamaica, we are completing our estimates of the damage from Hurricane Ivan, which struck on 10 September, virtually on the anniversary date of Hurricane Gilbert, still painfully fresh in our memory. On behalf of the Government and the people of Jamaica, I extend deep appreciation to the Member States, the agencies of the United Nations, and other international and non-governmental organizations which have given assistance. We have launched an international appeal to support our national efforts for immediate and long-term recovery. Apart from the provision of emergency relief supplies, there is a need for concessionary financing to the affected countries, so as to facilitate medium- to long-term reconstruction. One means of doing this would be through the establishment of a special fund. In the context of these recent developments, the 10-year review of the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for Small Island Developing States, to be held in Mauritius in January 2005, is a timely opportunity for the international community to undertake special consideration of the vulnerability of small island States. We expect the Mauritius review to adopt concrete measures and call for serious consideration to be given to mechanisms to support the recovery and reconstruction efforts of small island developing States in the aftermath of natural disasters. What should also command attention are the dangers posed by climate change and global warming and the urgent need for global action within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol. It is imperative that all States accede to the Protocol. It is accepted that the benefits of globalization are not being fully realized, especially in the area of international trade. We should seek to harness its potential to the benefit of developed and developing countries alike. Interdependence makes this an imperative. Global economic health requires better management of economic arrangements at all levels, to ensure a more equitable distribution of global prosperity. The situation of small developing economies makes a compelling case. From any objective standpoint, there is a need for special and differential treatment in relation to trade, the flow of financial resources, the transfer of technology and the promotion of industrial development. The gap between rich and poor must be narrowed. Otherwise, many developing countries will continue in a downward spiral of declining income and increased poverty, with painful consequences such as political and social instability and recurring humanitarian crises. While there is no substitute for self-reliance, on the basis of the principle of shared responsibility, there is a role for all participants within the global economic system. That is why international cooperation for development should be given a central place in our deliberations. There is a need to create institutional capacity in the United Nations for the direction and coordination of policies affecting finance, trade and technology and for formulating the overall policies guiding international economic cooperation. Such a mechanism could forge effective linkages with the Bretton Woods institutions in order to manage and promote coherence in international economic programmes and policies. It should effectively respond to economic crises as they arise and apply remedies for imbalances and disequilibrium in the global economy. Some tentative steps have been taken in that direction in the wake of the Monterrey Conference, but much more is required to reform governance in the international economic system to make it more democratic, transparent and responsive to the real needs and priorities of developing countries. The cycle of violence resulting from war and terrorism is a troubling phenomenon of our time. International security is dangerously at risk. What is clear to us is that violence and the use of force cannot be the answer. We must embrace multilateralism and 26 insist that international relations be guided by the rule of law as the basis for our collective security. Against that background, the necessary steps must be taken to strengthen multilateralism. The United Nations must be our instrument of choice. There is no viable alternative to the Organization, and it can be made as effective as it needs to be only if it is given the powers and resources that are required. We must continue to nourish and strengthen it and make adaptations in the face of changing realities to improve its effectiveness and enhance its credibility. Reform could begin with the Security Council, to make it more representative in membership, more democratic in its decision-making and more accountable and transparent in its operations. These are necessary for its effectiveness and legitimacy. We look forward to receiving the recommendations of the Secretary- General’s High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. The improvement of international security depends on our finding durable solutions to regional conflicts and disputes. In Africa, there is a need to expedite relief for humanitarian emergencies, to promote initiatives aimed at resolving internecine conflicts and to advance the struggle for economic and social progress. We are distressed by the deterioration in the political and humanitarian situation in the Darfur region of the Sudan, and we support constructive efforts to bring an end to the disruption and the bloodshed. We commend the role of the African Union aimed at resolving the crisis. We continue to call for good sense and wisdom to defuse the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. Jamaica believes that only through a process of political accommodation and the settlement of legitimate claims and grievances, on the basis of justice and legality, can there be any hope for a durable peace. The war in Iraq has opened up further complexities and further divisions and is becoming a dangerous source of continuing conflict. A political solution is needed to bring about national reconciliation and peace. Small countries face particular dangers in maintaining stability and security. I am referring to the increasing production, distribution and proliferation of small arms and light weapons and of sophisticated ammunition. These represent our greatest security threat. Small States do not produce these weapons, but they have become the principal victims of them. The influx of these weapons through various illicit channels is fuelling civil conflict and criminal violence whose extent and intensity beleaguer and often overwhelm national security forces. It is estimated in the 2004 Small Arms Survey that the proliferation and misuse of small arms contributes annually to approximately 200,000 to 270,000 civilian deaths, 40 per cent of which are concentrated in the Latin American and Caribbean region. Equally disturbing to us is the insufficient appreciation of these dangers by those countries that are the producers and source of the weapons. We maintain that such States have a duty to prevent illicit transfers beyond their borders. Additionally, we need more effective cooperation to regulate and restrict the movement of these weapons and to have effective registration and monitoring of transfers, operating within a framework of legally binding obligations. For that reason, it is urgent that we move to conclude the negotiations for an international convention to achieve those objectives. We make this demand for action on the basis of the principle of the equal right to security for all States. The threats and dangers we face are as valid as those arising from the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. These also demand collective action; and, in this, Jamaica has been unrelenting in its support of effective measures aimed at curtailing the spread of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. The year 2004 was declared the International Year for the Commemoration of the Struggle Against Slavery and its Abolition. Our history makes this a special commemoration. We also celebrate the 200th anniversary of the independence of Haiti. The Haitian revolution was an achievement of immense historical importance that significantly influenced the shaping of the modern world. It established the first free nation in the Western Hemisphere, and it struck the first decisive blow that eventually brought about the overthrow of the system of slavery in the Americas. The revolution was a story of heroism and triumph, creating a legacy that has sustained the Haitian people during a long and often lonely struggle for survival over the years, in the harsh realties of a hostile world of racism and discrimination. Sadly, the bicentennial celebration has been overshadowed by circumstances of instability and 27 political crisis that continue even now. The events of February still cast a shadow and leave lingering concerns about how the democratically elected President demitted office. The sequence of events and the timing of the Security Council in reacting to the crisis were unfortunate. At the same time, Jamaica recognizes that Haiti requires the support and assistance of the international community, which must be sustained over the long term to ensure its effectiveness. The rebuilding of democracy and the creation of a stable social, economic and political order cannot be accomplished overnight, and therefore it should be pursued with perseverance and the commitment of the necessary resources. We share the anguish and grief of the people of Haiti at the tragic loss of life and devastation caused by the recent hurricane. The Caribbean Community will continue to do its part in providing emergency assistance. This year, we commemorate the tenth anniversary of the establishment of the International Seabed Authority. For all of us, and for Jamaica, that is a significant milestone in the quiet evolution and promotion of a legal regime for the seabed, which embodies the principle of the common heritage of mankind. What we, as a community, can take from this to other spheres of international relations is the importance of upholding the rule of law and the pre- eminence of the principles of justice and equity. The Secretary-General rightly emphasized the importance of those norms last Tuesday when introducing his report on the work of the Organization (A/59/1). The international community should not stand idly by in the presence of violations of international law and the promotion of doctrines that run counter to the principles of multilateralism. That is why Jamaica asks of this fifty-ninth session that all States recommit themselves to the principles on which the Organization was founded to promote peace, equality and justice for all its Members. Let us take the necessary steps to put those principles into practice and to make them the foundation of our policies and programmes. Our universal objective must be to implement the noble ideals to which we subscribe, not just to articulate them.I should like, Sir, to congratulate you on your assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. This session might well prove to be epoch-making in that this body will be called upon to consider and to make far-reaching decisions on what ought to be done to revitalize our Organization and to better align it to fit todayís imperatives for global security, peace and development. I have no doubt that you will live up to our expectations and that, given your wisdom and vast experience, you will guide our deliberations to a successful outcome. You may rest assured, Mr. President, that you will receive my delegationís fullest cooperation. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to your predecessor, the very energetic and dynamic outgoing President, Mr. Julian E. Hunte, who conducted the business of the fifty-eighth session with gusto, dedication and courage, and who helped us to address some difficult issues. My delegation wishes him all the very best in his future endeavours. To our Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, I express my deep appreciation for yet another year of dedicated service to the Organization ó indeed, to humanity at large. Some of the problems that were laid before him were not easy to resolve but, as expected, resolved they were. I hope that his efforts to ensure the triumph of multilateralism, the resolution of disputes and the pursuit of meaningful cooperation among nations will be further bolstered during the session that is just beginning. I stand here representing the young people of the world. My statement is very long, and is divided into two parts: one part will be circulated to representatives; I will read out the other part. World leaders have stood at this rostrum on many occasions, addressing the world. We made pledges to the children of the world during the twenty-seventh special session ó the childrenís summit ó in 2002. During that special session, we pledged to create a better world and an environment conducive to the wellbeing of the children of the world. We have also come up with objectives for global development so as to make the world a better place for humanity by 2015. So far, there is no indication that those objectives will be achieved in the next 2,000 years. What are the problems? Since the childrenís summit took place, we have seen the condition of the worldís children become more and more desperate. Children are being butchered throughout the world. Childrenís rights are being violated. Children are being sold into slavery, and they are being terrorized by adults ó we, who are supposed to take care of them. We have seen the economies of small States collapse as a result of rising oil prices. I come from a volatile part of the world, but I do not represent only Africa; I represent the young people of the world, whose future is very bleak if the status quo is not addressed. What are the problems of humanity today? They are man-made problems, and, because they are man- made, we will be able to resolve them. The solution to those problems lies with us, human beings ó irrespective of race, colour, creed or religion. The problem of development can best be summarized thus: as long as there is violence and as long as there is no peace or global security, we, the poorer parts of humanity, will always become poorer and poorer, while the richer nations will become richer and richer. 5 There cannot be any development without peace and stability. There cannot be peace or stability without democracy, justice and equality. The main problem of humanity today ó which is creating all our other problems - is a result of four human tendencies: greed, double standards, intolerance and hypocrisy. None of us here can look into the faces of our children and assure them of a bright future or of their safety. Because of greed, human life has been reduced to naught. People want to become rich at the expense of human life. Greed can come in many forms. The insatiable appetite for world domination and intolerance - those are things that face humanity today. Our problem is not a confrontation between Islam and other religions. The problem of terrorism is a human characteristic. No good Muslim would ever commit a terrorist act. But, because the world has become so bad, lawlessness is rampant, and those who want to take out their frustrations on other human beings can do so in the name of Islam or any other religion. I have listened to my colleagues who have spoken here. But, as long as certain issues are not addressed, there will be no peace, and the war against terror will become an elusive fight that we will always lose. Some of us believe that, because we disapproved of the war in Iraq in the beginning, it is not our business to help solve it now. But let me assure the Assembly that the war in Iraq has more far-reaching consequences for humanity ó and particularly for the children whom we pledged to support at the World Summit for Children - than for anything else. We have seen our economies collapse because of high oil prices that rise higher every day. It is our collective responsibility to put an end to the war in Iraq. We have seen the rise of global terrorism; the world is a more dangerous place today than during the cold war. The war in Iraq ó regardless of whether or not we supported it ó is a human tragedy, and it is not in our interests, as the human race, to let that war continue because we disapprove of what has happened. Two wrongs cannot make a right. Even if we believe that the war was wrong, it is the responsibility of the entire human race to help put an end to the suffering of the Iraqi people. We have seen children being butchered in Beslan, Russia; we have seen Palestinian and Israeli children being butchered. The problem is not a religious problem but a political one, because we, the leaders of the world, want to teach others a lesson by making them suffer. That is a human tragedy. We cannot be diplomats here if we want to solve the worldís problems. It is amazing that, when certain actions that are described as terrorist acts are carried out by other parties, they are described as retaliation for something. An unlawful act that destroys human life is a terrorist act, regardless of its objective or the rationale behind it. If poverty is not addressed, there will be desperation and hunger. And, if human beings are desperate, they can resort to actions that are horrific to the rest of us. We have seen that some parts of the world are very rich and that other parts - including Africa, where I come from - are becoming poorer and poorer. If the world's wealth is not distributed equally, there will be imbalances and inequities, and there will be people who are desperate. If people are desperate, they will do anything to survive. However, that does not mean that one can justify violence. I do not justify violence in any form, because I believe that peace and stability would augur well for our children. The fight against terror is global. Let us be mindful of the consequences of allowing terror to be seen as a legitimate act. We have seen double standards being applied when resolutions are adopted for the good of humanity by the international community ó which is represented here ó and, in some cases, are enforced to the letter, whereas a few States are above international law and United Nations resolutions. That brings me to the issue of nuclear weapons. As a human being and as a peacemaker, I believe that, following the end of the cold war, no nation should have been able to justify the possession of nuclear weapons, much less become a new nuclear Power. If powerful nations continue to keep their nuclear weapons - and there are many double standards in the way we deal with one another ó that will only become an enticement for others to opt for nuclear weapons because they think such weapons will serve as an insurance policy against attacks. I know that, during the 1980s, there was a campaign to promote nuclear disarmament. Today, in the new millennium, that campaign should be strengthened through a United Nations resolution making it illegal for anyone to possess nuclear 6 weapons. We have seen conflicts simmering that will have drastic consequences for humanity - conflicts aimed at preventing certain States from acquiring nuclear weapons. Now that the Soviet empire no longer exists, all nuclear weapons - whether they are possessed by the Gambia or by any other country - should be eliminated. Just imagine one bomb killing millions of people. And here we stand, telling everyone that the world will be a better place for mankind. I believe in the peaceful resolution of all conflicts. Indeed, as far as I know, there is no licensing authority for the possession of nuclear weapons; therefore, no one can decide who should and who should not have them. We should take a bold step to ensure that no one has nuclear weapons. In this forum, on behalf of the worldís children, I appeal to those who aspire to possess nuclear weapons that that is the wrong path to take. Peace and stability cannot be ensured through the possession of nuclear weapons. The strength of a nation is not based on its firepower or its nuclear arsenal, but is determined by its ability to make the world a better place for humanity, including its own citizens. Nuclear weapons are not a solution.